ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. Please, dear fellows, take your seats. Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:03:03]] A total of 424 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies: Razwadowski Viktor Josephovich and Sitnik Kostin Merkuryovich. Let's welcome them and wish them well. Honorable fellow workers, in line with article 2.5. 2 Tuesday's regulations have 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, requests, applications and messages. I ask the factions to submit, representatives of the groups to apply. Ladies and gentlemen, if there's no objection, I'm going to announce the questions that have come. Is there no objection? A request was received from the Ukrainian national deputies, a group of national deputies: Gavrish, Salmin, and others, to the President of Ukraine for measures to prevent the environmental crisis in the area of Calus Ivano-Frankiv. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:04:42]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Stephen Cloud to the President of Ukraine regarding the violation of the constitutional right to housing, the endangerment of the life and health of the many children of the Shinya family by the leadership of the Desert Reich and the district council of the Lviv region. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:05:19]] For-129 The decision is not taken. John Plush - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the water supply situation in the town of Kneel in connection with the restriction on the energy supply of water tanks. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:05:49]] For-137 Decision taken. And now, dear colleagues, I'm going to announce the thousandth request from the beginning of today's session. This is a request from Hennady Rudenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the obligation to conduct an environmental analysis of the bill in accordance with the Ukrainian Environmental Expertise Act. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:28]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Stanislawa Nikolayenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the capital repair of clean-up facilities in the village of Novoleksijuka in the district of Herson. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:58]] For-144 Decision taken. Mikhail Radio to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the delay in financing the construction of the hospital's medical rehabilitation centre of the National Space Agency of Ukraine in Kiev, a repeat request. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:29]] For a-117. Decision taken. Mikoli Rudzikowski to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the illegal actions of employees of the Montenegrin City Department of Internal Affairs during a search in the residence of a local newspaper named Hart. Karandi", whose editor is one of the candidates in the Ukrainian National Deputies for 206 constituencies. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:11]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Groups of National Deputies - Timoshenko, Kirilczuk, Cloud, Pavlovski, Belarus - to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the murder of the resident of Kiev Orenga Viktor Evgenovich, the illegal sale of his apartment and the improper investigation into the case. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:49]] For 1052 Decision taken. Anatolia Átovajka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to assist in the renovation of the boarding school for children orphans in the town of Vuglegirsk Donetsk Region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:15]] For 124 Decision taken. Anatolia Orzhachowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Kirilenko, on the property, financial and economic situation that has arisen in.The Skadovian region of the Herson region and the legitimacy of the directors of the 21st century T.O. on the balance of economic and socio-cultural objects of the bankrupt economy, the inappropriate response to the social problems of the village. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:03]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Anatolia Átnajka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on financial assistance to the coal mine of the Donetsk Region in order to prevent the mine from being completely flooded. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:32]] For-147 Decision taken. Jurya Crooka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the repayment of her arrears to teachers. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:56]] For-103 Decision taken. Stepan Gavrish to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on measures to prevent the environmental crisis in Kalus Ivano-Frankiv region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:22]] For 116 Decision taken. Oleg Panasovsi to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the consequences of the suspension of financing work in Gorlovci for buildings in the area of the destructive influence of mining products. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:53]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Stanislava Nikolayenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the emergency situation that took place in the village of Velika Lepeticha, in the Herson region as a result of the destruction of the bridge. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:22]] For-163 Decision taken. Mikhail Pavlovski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for his dissatisfaction with the request for an expert study of the working conditions of the Shepetov factory of cultivators. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:51]] For 124 Decision taken. Maria Markusz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the repayment of the debt for construction work of the pipeline in the Great-Bresnian district of Zakarpat. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:23]] For the 120th. Decision taken. Alexander Shevchenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the protection of the rights of members of the Association of International Transporters of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:50]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Jurya Crook to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of a licence for import of sugar-sparing cane sugar in the Odessa region of Incukorprom. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:25]] For-72 The decision is not taken. John Tomic to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for a dangerous situation that has arisen in the field of animalry. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:51]] For 155 Decision taken. Hennady Rudenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the problems of the rehabilitation of children with disabilities at the Peacetown Territorial Centre for the Service of Pensioners and Disabled Persons, I am voting on the referral of a request. [[10:15:19]] For-200 Decision taken. Mikhail Pavlovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the change in the status of shareholders of Prigma Press and Hmelnicky City PUMK-2 to privatize them to residents. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:49]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Maria Markusz to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Industrial Policy of Ukraine for the transfer of the club's dining room to the Zenit factory to the balance of the municipal property of the territorial community of the city of Tachov. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:20]] For-125 Decision taken. Leonidas Černoveckovsky to Prime Minister of Ukraine for an experiment on the registration of homeless citizens. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:52]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the point of order of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine No. 132, on 12 February 2003, which provides for the introduction of a military and primary composition into the institutions of the Ministry of Internal Affairs under three years of service in bodies that conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:34]] For-147 Decision taken. Victor Slava to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the gasification of the village of Cermalik of the Tellmanov region of the Donetsk region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:00]] For 122 Decision taken. Valentina Seminouk to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine for the protection of the honour and business reputation of the head of the Agricultural Cooperative Zelenka in the Kyiv region of Valentina Pripiyala. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:36]] For-129 Decision taken. Group of National Deputies: Domanski, Lechchenko and others to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine for the violation of the Constitution of Ukraine by the colleagues of the Pechre District Chief Executive of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:09]] Z-91 Decision taken. Mikhail Poljančić to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the terrorist attack on May 18, 2003, in the apartment of Simchara Academy in Uzhgrad. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:40]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Levka Lukyanenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for an invitation from Ukrainian citizens to the International Court of Justice in The Hague. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:06]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. National Deputy Anischuk to Prime Minister Yanukovic of Ukraine for the violation of the rights of the labour force during the privatisation of VAT "Stepovy" in the divisional district of Odessa. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:37]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Bogdan Hubski to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the improper conduct of the Prosecutor's Office of the Brovarsky district, overseeing the verification of the circumstances of the theft by officials of the right-wing shareholders of state property and the failure of the Prosecutor's Office of the Kyiv area to provide legal requirements on the legality of the bankruptcy procedure. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:16]] Z-91 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies: Domanski, Leshchenko, Yushchenko and others to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine on the violation of legislation by some leaders of the Association of International Automobile Carriers of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:49]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the negligence of the District Attorney's Office in the conduct of a criminal case concerning the head of the Borinetsk Rajagrochem Association of the Kirovograd Region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:22:23]] For 105 Decision taken. Andrija Polita to the Attorney General of Ukraine for failure to execute by the Provincial Authority of Justice of the Kirovograd District of Economic Court Decision. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:22:50]] For-99 Decision taken. Mikoli Tomenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the dissemination by officials of the Attorney General's Office of unverified information on the falsification of services, the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv Region for the closure of criminal cases with regard to former directors of the "United Energy Systems of Ukraine" Corporation. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:23:30.]] For 115 Decision taken. Andrija Shkila, Prime Minister of Ukraine Yanukovic, on the lack of an adequate response to non-community actions by the Russian Federation, which led to an international incident involving the parliamentary delegation at the Habarovsk Airport in Russia. I'll bet you a vote on the request. The incident is over, Your Honor, there is no more incident. [[10:24:12]] For-170. Decision taken. National Deputy Oneichuka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the violation of the procedure for issuing passports to citizens of Ukraine by the authorities of the Ukrainian Ministry of Passport and Registration in Odessa. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:24:48]] For 135 Decision taken. Jury Kostenko is with the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the investigation of the beating of Ukrainian People's Party activists in the region of Ivano-Frankiv. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:25:18]] For-96 Decision taken. Viktor Veretennikov - to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the violation of the honour and dignity of the Ukrainian national deputy and the attempt to discredit the public authority. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:25:46]] For 132 Decision taken. Lilia Grigorovich is with the Attorney General of Ukraine on the situation surrounding the company Optimist of the near-disability Union of the Ukrainian People's Organizations. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:26:16]] For-126 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the formal investigation by police officers of the city of Kirovgrad of charges against the resident of Kirovgrad of Suvorov in the theft of power lines. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:26:46]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Jury Karmazin to Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine Korniaková, Head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund on the illegal rental of the Carpathian Recreation Base, abuse of office, corruption by individual officials of the regional office of the Ukrainian State Property Fund in the Odessa Region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:27:25]] For 113 Decision taken. Lesia Tanjuk to the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on the civil case between the chief editor of the trade newspaper and the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:27:53]] For the 180. Decision taken. Vladimir Bronnikov to the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the consideration of claims made by residents of the city of Orikhov of Zaporzik region for misconduct against the Mesquikonkam. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:28:23]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Jaroslav Jódzik to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine to implement recommendations to amend the regulations on how to grant wartime status to persons who worked in a single household during the years of war. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:28:57]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Leuka Lukjanenko to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for gross violation of article 10 of the Ukrainian Constitution in the ministry’s service. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:29:26]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Victor Slavita to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the preservation of the maternity home and the children’s infection ward at the Amurosian Central District Hospital of the Donetsk Region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:29:54]] For 134 Decision taken. Igora Ostasa to the Minister for Economic Affairs and European Integration of Ukraine regarding the financing of a youth lending programme for higher education. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:30:23]] For-95 Decision taken. Mikoli Tomenka to the head of the Chamber of Auditors of Ukraine for the verification of the use of the budget by the national television company of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:30:54]] For-140. Decision taken. Valerija Suškević to the head of Kyiv City State Administration, Kiev City Head, on improving living conditions for the people of Kiev, a disabled child. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:31:23]] For 186 Decision taken. Victor Pinzenik to the Lviv City Head, for reasons of baseless refusal of the members of the Gardening Cooperative Society, Sadownik Lux, to privatize land. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:31:52]] For 109 Decision taken. All requests have been voted on. Mikola Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u2	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs! I ask you to vote again on my request for illegal police action. Early this morning, Karanda Jaroslav Aleksandrovitch, in Chernigov, broke into the private apartment of Garth’s associate Karanda Jaroslav Aleksandrovitch. The police had no reason to take him to the precinct without an invitation, without an arrest warrant. Pressure is exerted on the family. I ask you to uphold this protection, protect the rights of a Ukrainian citizen. Please re-vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u3	Honorable National MPs. People's MP Mikola Rudzkowski's request to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for illegal actions by members of the Montenegrin City Department of Internal Affairs. During a search of a resident of a local newspaper named Garth Karandi, an editor who is one of the candidates for the Ukrainian People's Deputies for 206 constituencies. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:33:27]] For-162 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to performances from factions and MPs. We've spent half an hour making written inquiries. If there is no objection, let those who sign up will speak. And then we're not taking a break at 12 o'clock. Victor Terrence, from the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, has the word to prepare the Desert Tenko Valery Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u4	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear colleagues, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko is once again forced to draw your attention to the problem of returning funds to fraudulent investors of trusts and savings to Ukrainian citizens. First. I would like to remind you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has adopted a decree on the observance of the Government's Day on 14 May this year, on which the government would have to report on the implementation of the government's mandate given to the interim parliamentary commission on trust issues. I will also remind you that these assignments were given to the Government by the Supreme Council of Ukraine back in 1996. Yet today’s government is doing absolutely nothing in this direction. He's got nothing to report, and he's hiding. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, a representative of our Turkish faction demanded that the Cabinet report to the agenda of the daily session on Government Day on trust issues. And once again, our faction clearly disagrees with the fact that some Ukrainian Moorishmen from Bankova and Gruszewski would like to bury the issue of the return of money to cheated citizens forever. I also draw attention to the fact that, as early as October last year, members of our faction had introduced a bill on the solution of the problem of trusts, but it has not yet been considered by the relevant committee. Nor are the two bills on the return of savings submitted to Parliament by the National Deputies, Yulia Timoshenko, Turkinov, Pavlovski, Teren. And that's because there's a positive conclusion from the Science-Expert Department that people are waiting and demanding us to solve the burning problem of trusts and the burning problem of the return of savings. We're told, "There's no money to pay the citizens back." But there is money. There is no desire for authority to bring them back to humans. Money is rolling, literally, on the road. Drive through Kiev, areas and everywhere, and you'll see the boards with the inscriptions: "Stimulate the parliamentary majority, support the government and live like in Europe." [[Quoting literally the inscriptions]] I don't know how a worker or a milkmaid will stimulate most. Obviously, the question of stimulating certain MPs is not within their purview. And another example is that there's money. Please read the Evening News newspaper. The evidence indicates that Kuchmi’s furniture alone was purchased for $3 million. You're 12 Kuchma chairs, you're the tin of a presidential chair that he's very keen to sit on for another third term. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko strongly insists on the government's immediate report on the problem of trusts and on a constructive solution to the issue of the return of savings to citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u5	The word is given to the Desert Mother Valery Pavlovich of the People's Democratic Party. The next one is Drought.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u6	Dear colleagues! On May 30-31 in Kiev there was a forum for popular democracy. And let me read the address at the request of the forum representatives. "To address the participants of the People's Democracy Forum to the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, political parties and public organizations. We in the People's Democracy Forum have agreed that the main factor that inhibits effective socio-economic transformation is the existing political system, within which it is no longer possible to bridge the gap between state and society and achieve the greatest political consolidation of society, the main condition of permanent democratic development. Under these circumstances, only radical reform of the political system, the goal of creating a democratically chosen, responsible and effective system of government at these levels, can make a difference. In this regard, we do. Ready to interact with all the political forces that share our position. At the same time, we as participants in the People's Democracy Forum are fully aware of the danger that non-public forms of political reform are being prepared that open the way to political fraud and undermine the legitimacy of the constitutional process. The only warning can be the full involvement of civil society institutions in creating a new constitutional order. We believe that the way it is implemented is through the Constitutional Assembly, which will generalize all existing proposals for changes, give them an expert evaluation and produce a vision of the new political system for further legislativeization. The key figures of the Constitutional Assembly should be those directly representing civil society with the mandate of representative authority. President of Ukraine, Ukrainian national deputies, political parties, civil organizations of all Ukrainian levels, representatives of local self-government. We are convinced that it is the constitutional assembly itself that will prevent the constitutional process from becoming a hostage of political conjuncture. In this regard, we invite the President of Ukraine and the Supreme Council to give the constitutional assembly responsible status and to begin preparations for its implementation in the autumn of 2003. We also appeal to local self-government bodies, political parties and democratic organizations to support our position and to participate actively in the preparation of the constitutional assembly. And the second question. Dear colleagues! I want to tell you, remember, we voted in favour of the draft law on a national development programme for small towns in Ukraine. We made an exit meeting and during this retreat, we went to the Chernobyl Atomic Station's "Hidden" facility. What I'm trying to say is that today's state of maintenance of the Hidden object deserves a lot of excitement. In this context, from the faction of the People's Democratic Party, I am addressing all the national MPs and asking for the support of the budgetary resolutions and the creation of the Hidden Foundation, already so that we can put it in place, because there is a very big problem. By the end of 2008, we need to build a new hide-and-seek sarcophagus to cover the existing one. And we've decided from the faction on the day-to-day salary of the people's deputies to recalculate it and ask you to support it. Because the help of international financial organizations today is not enough and just to expect international assistance is very, very difficult. Thank you for your attention. I'd like to support our proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u7	The drought of Tetjan Volodymyr is due to the parliamentary faction of political parties of Ukrainian and Labour Ukraine entrepreneurs. The next one is Gladys.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u8	Aunt Zasuha, 94th constituency. Honorable deputies. As we know, one of the conditions for Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization is to ensure open access to our country's food market for cane sugar in the range of 200-260 thousand tonnes each year, with a further quota of up to 350 thousand tonnes. This is urged by the WTO member countries: Argentina, Australia, Brazil, India and Cuba. The National Sugar Association of Ukraine is very concerned about the already extremely complex situation in the field, and has sent a letter to our faction asking us to consider with you the possible catastrophic consequences of such a prospect for a domestic producer and to minimize these consequences at the right time. Because it is estimated by experts that importing this amount of relatively cheap heart at the actual loss of our country's external markets will result in the closure of at least 20 sugar factories, the disposal of some 100,000 hectares of soybeans. As a result of this intervention, the budget will be under 300 million dollars and, above all, 65,000 people will actually lose their jobs. This will increase the already great social tension in the bereaved regions of the state. What can and should the authorities do today to save the strategic sector of the Ukrainian economy? This is a question that we need to consider with the government as quickly as possible and to identify with the algorithm of action. I would like to remind you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed a law in June 1999 on state regulation of the production and implementation of sugar. The producers associated with him great hopes for economic recovery. The basic provisions of this law have declared the introduction of minimum prices for sugar beet and sugar, the licensing of wholesale sugar, the fixing of supply quotas, the lending of seasonal production, and the establishment of a public authority for regulating the sugar market. Regrettably, some of these important positions have still not worked. For four years we delayed the adoption of amendments to the law on licensing for certain types of farm activity. In the part of the license of wholesale sugar trade. Then there is no civilized wholesale sugar market in the country. Numerous traders, mediators, continue to lively parasites on the manufacturer, pump out and overshadow all the profits of the beetroot complex. This, according to experts, is one of the main causes of the degradation of the material and technical base of the sector. The National Sugar Association of Ukraine requests the National Deputies to return to the bill amending the Ukrainian law on licensing certain types of economic activity and to adopt the amendments provided for by the Law on State Regulations for the Production and Implementation of Sugar. The government could support the domestic producer with credit resources if, in June-August 2003, it could find the possibility to conduct open trades for sugar from the 2003 harvest to the reserve at a minimum price determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This would allow the reserve to be filled and would protect the market from the traditional artificial collapse of prices at the end of the sugar season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u9	The word comes from the faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine, Michael Gladys. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u10	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished members of the government, respected colleagues! The Ukrainian Agrarian Party’s deputy faction once again expresses its concern about the state of Ukrainian citizens’ pensions and draws the attention of the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, to the need for a solution to this acute social problem as soon as possible. Today, the situation in this area remains very difficult. The modern - day solidarity pension system is unable to perform its main functions for several reasons. First, the existing legislative framework, taking into account the increase in the number of older persons, imposes considerable pressure on the working population. Taking in the total number of children and pensioners, one worker now essentially keeps one incapacitated. Secondly, about 95 percent of pensioners receive pensions ranging from 86 to 142 bracelets, which is only 32 to 52 percent of the living minimum. In addition, those who receive the lowest pensions are now most among the peasants and, above all, among those who have put the postwar economy on its feet, working for the first working hours and later for a meager amount of money. Under such circumstances, a slight periodic increase in pensions does not solve the problem. In addition, the absence of a direct link between the size of the pension and the size of the pension benefits paid to the pension system leads to a lack of interest in their payment and provides for a level of income that allows only low pension payments. Therefore, taking into account the social significance of these issues, the faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine claims that it is necessary to expedite the review of the Ukrainian law on compulsory government pension insurance, which has been preparing for second reading for almost two years. At the same time, we draw attention to a number of provisions that must be taken into account in this bill in connection with the recent adoption of a fixed agricultural tax law. This is especially about pensions for the most suffering category of our people -- peasants, pensions that have been causing surprises and outrage for decades. The point is that the proposed draft pension law essentially embodies the operation of a fixed agricultural tax bill as it provides for the removal of payments to the Pension Fund, which is nothing more than raising money from one pocket to put it in the other. So these are the ones. which is offered at the expense of today's agricultural farmers, most of whom are getting on their feet to create a pension base for today's pensioners, which is to cut the branch on which the agricultural producer is holding. In our view, it is the easiest and at the same time the most immoral path, especially with regard to peasants, who in the past have created pensions for many categories of citizens. Since this is a general compulsory state pension insurance, the state in the government and should propose an effective pension scheme, to find alternative sources of funding for rural pensioners. [[Underlining - State]] The faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party advocates the creation of a pension system based on the principles of justice, covering all categories of workers, ensuring that the pension depends on length of service and income earned. This approach will allow a significant improvement in the social protection of pensioners and the removal of the whole range of painful problems in society.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u11	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski of the faction "Our Ukraine" has a word. Prepare Ponomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u12	Dear legislators, distinguished voters of Ukraine! I climbed this rostrum on behalf of a huge number of actors, singers, writers who recently participated in the international Shevchenk festival in Lviv. You can see for yourself, and you've been thinking over and over again about what we Ukrainians here on earth don't really care about, and we're being chased all the time by situations, one, one, one, three. Whether it is our authority and our leadership that carries on some black karma that crashes our planes, floods, hurricanes, catastrophes, and so forth. But it can be taken into account. And there are things that, in fact, provoke us with you, those who sit in this room. I mean, here's what. I've already mentioned and I'll remind you once again: scientists have prepared that 648 different circulars, decrees, secret orders have been adopted against the Ukrainian language to prohibit it. And here's what's happened that you and I are involved in a remarkable, unique piece of paper -- the ratification of the charter as national minorities. Nothing more shameful could possibly be accepted during the 12th year of our independence. What we did to you, those who, at least, voted in favour of this bill. We've practically introduced a Russian language that doesn't need any protection here in Ukraine, it functions absolutely freely, it has its habitat, its nest in Russia, it works all over the post-Radians space. We are today applying international protection law to Russian, and you and I are barely able to defend ourselves in the national Ukrainian language. How it protects itself inside you know how our authority speaks, what language it thinks. I'm leading you to believe that this is a fatal mistake in Parliament, I have no objection, it was just a game of Medvedczuk with the leadership of our Supreme Council. There was a wonderful bill that prepared a committee that was put in a position of protection, because don't catch me by word of mouth, the paper itself is a beautiful document, it's a European document that obliges the state to protect the languages that are dying out. We have this language, this is the language of Crimean Tatars, they have no place on the planet, this language can only be developed here. The Hagueese are still available, but Russian did not need it. That's why we're asking the President to veto, he likes to do it, he does it with great pleasure. I think this is exactly the case where the President is forced to veto this bill and we have to go back to that version that the commission is offering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u13	The word is given by Gregory Ponomarenko of the Communist faction. The next one will be Demyochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u14	Dear colleagues! On June 8, an interim election of candidates for the Ukrainian National Deputies will take place in Montenegro. We are all here to make sure that loving choices take place honestly, transparently, in order to win, indeed, stronger, rather than the one with the tighter wallet. How do we understand that part of the people’s deputies who did not vote in favour of the establishment of a special commission to oversee the elections in this district on Thursday? What did he not teach us about the lawlessness that took place in the election of the city’s city head? I'm going to name the factions that didn't vote for the commission: "Regions", "Trug Ukraine", "Democratic Initiatives", "European Choice", "The People's Authority", "Agrarian Party", "NDP," "National Choice", or "Provisional Parties," so-called most of the Supreme Council. Why didn't they vote? Because the authorities, according to Banks, have already identified which of the bankers she wanted to see selected in this district. Look under whose patronage the concerts of Gazmanov, Buynov and Samovetov are held in Chernig. Under the patronage of the Head of Administration in support of a particular candidate. That the Central Election Commission or the District Election Commission does not realize that for 170,000 dollars of the candidate’s national deputy fund, it is impossible to provide free passage for black people on suburban buses, to hold several concerts of celebrities, to ensnare the city with agitation shields, each costing more than a hundred dollars. To do all this, you need to be not just a candidate for the national MPs, but you need to be president of the bank and know that the authorities will support you. By the way, the national deputy Lechchenko appealed to the Attorney General's Office for a violation of the electoral law in this district. I'm going to 206 constituencies. It's up to you who comes to the Supreme Council after June 8th, or who forgets about you the next day after the election, and today organizes concerts, free passes, gives Greek, sugar, or whoever lives with you today, and after the election will be with you. We can honestly say that the candidate for a deputy in this district from the Company is Rajis Yasocka, who travels with you trolleybuses every day, divides a meager salary for 30 days, lives with you and your concerns. As one classic said, which is a national MP, if we hadn't been bought in another way, we wouldn't have sold in another way.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u15	I invite you to the speech by Vladimir Demjokin of the People's Landing MPs. Get ready for Shufrych.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u16	Vladimir Demehin, 184th District, Herson, People's Landing. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Under the recent law, the introduction of a minimum wage of 237 to 1 December was postponed. The reason for such a solution is also a lack of funds, and the need to restore wages by a staff member of budgetary institutions: doctors, teachers, cultural workers, as has Government representatives and representatives of the MPs and trade unions. The situation where employees of different qualifications with different levels of responsibility receive almost the same wages is unacceptable. In addition, another problem arose. You know that to date, the payment of 185 bracelets, a minimum, is made both from the regional budgets and from State budget subsidies. For example, the situation in the Herson region. The deficit before the end of the year after payment of 185 grevens is a minimum wage of 5 million. Moreover, the introduction of 185 bracelets of minimum wage, I think that 237 will exacerbate the situation, have led to an increase in the budgetary imbalance: wages and other expenditure items such as materials, current repairs, equipment and medicines, which come from the district budget. Although the lower share of wages and the ratio of other articles should be about 50 per cent. Today we have 30 by 70 or more regions. The reasons for this are the lack of budget planning last year and the responsibility lies with us, both in Parliament and in the Government. Therefore, so that we do not have to overturn our decision in the future, we must find a solution to the identified problem today. This week, the Supreme Council will consider the budgetary policy framework for the following year. These frameworks will determine the principles of the formation of the State budget. Regrettably, the draft document that we have recently received does not mention the principle of raising the minimum wage, nor does it refer to the need to restore office relationships. In fact, it is a matter of implementing the Cabinet of Ministers' decree on remuneration. I mean, a single tariff grid. The People's Government Group believes that the growth rate of the domestic economy allows us not only to pay the minimum wage next year but also to bring it into line with the tariff network. In our view, the State's commitment to such an increase should be reflected in the recommendations of the Supreme Council on the basis of budgetary policy. The issue of budgetary pay is one of the cornerstones of budgetary policy. Pre-planning is therefore an integral part of the cost. We ask all members of the people to support our proposal and to take them into account when considering the basics of budgetary policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u17	He has the word from the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, Nestor Schufric. [[united]] Get ready, Niklaenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u18	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear fellow national MPs! Let me inform you that on May 23-25 in Yalta there was the First All-Ukrainian Council of Deputies of Councils of All Levels, Rural, Village and City Heads, elected from the United Social Democrats Party. I will immediately say that the practical importance of the meeting is that the plenary and the sectional work reveal a large number of problems faced and worked by local self-government authorities. These problems are violent and need immediate solutions. Viewing the principles and development of local self - government as. The Council was forced to state that the Supreme Council of Ukraine had far from done all or that local self-government had received all legislative support. Support that is in line with the principles of the European Charter of Local Self - Rule. The most important issues for local self-government are land relations, municipal property, local budgets, distribution at the local level of authority of representative and executive authority, tariff policy, socio-cultural development and environmental security, and so on. To this day alone, there are over 40 drafts in the Supreme Council of Ukraine that deal directly with the problems of local self - government. Even so, they are far from exhausting the entire circle of problems of representative authorities. The individual bills, which are very sad, are of an open political nature, not for the benefit of the cause, but for the banal acquisition of political dividends. However, the adoption of a series of laws that are essential for real recovery is not justified. In particular, for about five years, the Supreme Council has not passed a law on municipal property, thus effectively depriving the territorial community of the constitutional right to administer its own property. In addition, a number of provisions of the Budget Code are needed for serious revisions, primarily in the form of a formal approach and an update of transfers for the regions, as well as a correct distribution of inter-budget transfers from the state to the local budgets. The idea of self - government does not meet the requirements of depriving local budgets of the right to distribute the development fund on their own. In fact, it prohibits the free allocation of the remaining funds in the accounts of the respective local councils for the beginning of the year and so forth. It does not help local self - government and the budgetary code’s distribution of income from the sale of non - agricultural land. Local self - government is seriously affected by legislative uncertainty on most communal issues. In particular, there are no mechanisms for state budget financing, housing reforms. To sum up the above, I would like to ask the Supreme Council to step up its work in the direction of rapid and consistent legislative enforcement of local self-government bodies. Dear colleagues, I'd like to use my right to repeat my previous speeches. The position of the faction of the United Social Democrats on the elections in Montenegro, on the basis of the vote on the panel, is determined by the existing law on elections and powers, which defines both the Central Election Commission and the District Election Commission. I would also like to ask Mr. Yavorowski about the fact that the Supreme Council has voted on that version of the Charter of European Languages and the language of the national minorities which displeases Mr. Yavorowski. I want to remind you that the working group's alternative was to vote and I got 194 votes. No vote was given by the representative of "Our Ukraine" as a choice of working group! Therefore, we need not exchange ourselves or the people of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u19	Stanislaw Nikolaynko, please, from the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Prepare Veretennikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u20	Dear National Deputies! The Socialist faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine today calls on the Attorney General's Office to intervene in the situation surrounding the elections in Montenegro. Threatening, administrative pressure on the opposition candidate Dmitry Ivanov -- the editor-in-chief of the newspaper "Hart" -- is crossing every line. This is what Mikola Rudzikowski was talking about today when a group of militiamen led by Lieutenant Grigorovich came in today, and they forced him to go with them illegally to the department, and they forced him not to do the advocacy work. We strongly protest and call on honest nuns to support Dmitri Ivanov. That's different. The faction of socialists today is also deeply concerned about the inaction of the government, the local executive authorities, in the face of a severe drought that struck Ukraine. Today, it is not only in the drought but also in difficult climate conditions. The reasons for the present situation in the agri-industrial complex are also a serious calculation of the political and economic regime. The state did not help farmers to maintain irrigation systems. High electricity prices remain that are used for irrigation and water supply. As a result, both farms and farmers and the population are unable to use water. I've just come from Hersonland and I'm saying that in most villages in the south, there is no normal water supply at all. People are miserable -- they can't water the garden, they can't drink the cattle, and they can't even drink the water themselves. Because of the lack of food, the population was forced to sell cattle and birds immediately. This is used by repurchasers. In the fall, they bought bread, and now they're as cheap as 80-90 copies per kilogram of living weight, buying cattle. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine is concerned that 600 million dollars have been allocated. The money to save the agro-industrial complex, we're afraid they won't get to the peasants. So socialists insist on the creation of an extraordinary parliamentary commission to investigate the state of affairs, to make adequate proposals to the Supreme Council, to the government on the way out of the crisis that the Ukrainian village faced, and to prevent hunger in Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine must introduce a moratorium on the bankruptcy of agricultural enterprises. The government should immediately provide subsidies for the use of electricity on the water systems and for the delivery of drinking water. Well, today you can't put 30 cents for drinking water for one kilowatt of electricity. We demand that the government immediately make specific calculations on the extent of the necessary purchases of grains and crops for the following year and prevent price increases for these products. In the next budget, we have to anticipate the cost of restoring melioritative systems. To that end, the State must issue long - term farmers’ credits. The situation requires extraordinary and immediate action. The State must do its utmost to prevent the threat of hunger from the Ukrainian people, to prevent a humanitarian national disaster. We'll save the village. We'll save the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u21	Yes, the People's Deputy of Verethennikov. How Can I Help You? 3 / 8 3 Rules in connection with the dissatisfaction and contradictory response of the Attorney General’s Office to parliamentary requests Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u22	In view of the conflicting answers from the Attorney General’s Office regarding my questions, I am addressing the President of Ukraine with an open letter. “Dear Leonide Danilovich, the Dnipropetrovsky District Attorney’s Office has been in office for five months to destroy the well-known national manufacturer of the Transnistrian "Agreement" every week, all new and new criminal cases against the combined professionals have been created since the previous ones were clearly falsified by the Public Prosecutor’s Office. An unprecedented case of cynicism and fraud involving the poisoning of children and even the death of a six-month-old child who died two months before the prosecution's "Law Power" transmission, not from serum poisoning, but from pneumonia. So isn't this evidence of the prosecutor Shuba's actions, threatening to destroy me as a national deputy, namely, "Agreement" and my son? And on May 23rd, under my MP number 0386-PL, an unknown car was hit by a road accident with heavy consequences. The car double from the scene of the accident is gone. I regard this not only as another planned provocation against me, but as an attempt to discredit the Supreme Council, which, by a majority of votes, supported the request to the President of Ukraine for illegal actions by the procurator of the day. The custom nature of "Conspiracy" checks has been highlighted by virtually all media outlets, and this is referred to in a letter from the head of the National Journalists' Association to President Lubchenk of Ukraine. Dear Leonide Danilovich, we worked with you in the first independent parliament of Ukraine, together we created "Agreement," our signatures are under the Ukrainian Independence Act. Since then, I have considered you not only a wise statesman, whose people have twice chosen the highest office of the President of Ukraine. The next time I found out about this two months ago, when I told you about the prosecution's disorder about the "Agreement" and the consequences of the conversation were fair and specific instructions. Unfortunately, they were ignored by prosecutor Shub. On the contrary, pressure has increased, and not only in health care, taxes, and other control organs but also in judges. Courts against the experts of "Conclusions" go as on the conveyor: today the case comes, tomorrow the trial, and so almost every day. As for the plea "Conclusion" against the Public Prosecutor's Office for the protection of their legal cases and damages, the court is no longer a month and a half. Why does this work? Because prosecutor Shuba crossed the line trying to use the judges' decision to defend his rights. In this case, the pressure on the court is kind of an order from the Bank, and he's reporting on the case of harm personally and directly, even through the head of the Attorney General to the first person. On his way to Kiev, Shuba boasts that he is going to meet the President of Ukraine. On 14 May, the general assembly of Ukrainian national deputies who entered the parliamentary majority approached the President of Ukraine with a request for effective measures to support the "Conclusion" against the attorney's own motion. The appeal was accepted by 231 people’s deputies, but it did not work either. Leonide Danilovich, most of Parliament, is a team that supports the President and the government, unless we have an understanding, it is. And I very much ask you to see me again to end the prosecution's claim and to preserve the national producer." An open letter please consider my official address to the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u23	Dear National Deputies! Presentations from factions authorized by MPs have been completed. With regard to the issues raised in speeches, information, reports, I ask the secretariat to process and prepare appropriate letters, appropriate instructions. Please, Zybenko's line. Then Yavorowski, then Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u24	Thank you! Cibenko, Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues! I took this line for saying that recently, a few minutes ago, Mr. Glady from the rostrum, who actually accused the committee of my colleagues of artificial braking of the law on mandatory, state-owned, pension insurance. Before going to the rostrum with such a statement had to be clearly looked into the order of the day, then Mr. Glady would have seen that in order of day he stood on second reading. This is the first time. So he was a little late with these statements. It's different. If Mr. Glady, if the Agrarian Party is concerned about this law, there is a simpler way to fight for its acceptance, to send a representative of its parties and its factions to work. Unfortunately, there is no Agrarian Party representative on the committee. Thus, it is understandable why such problems arise. And third. The adoption of this law created a problem of so - called fixed taxation. I am absolutely convinced that the village and the villagers must be supported. But let's think about it in a way, because it's about that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u25	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski, please. Turn off the microphone. Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u26	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Jovkovsky, 123 constituency, "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues, I have taken the floor for replication because it was mentioned to one of the chiefs of the Esdeks that my last name and the name of the faction that I belong to and was accused of anti-patriotism, that she did not want to vote for the normal version of the Charter Ratification Act. That's not true. I have to explain to our voters, not this man, but the electorate first. I think few people doubt the patriotic position of "our Ukraine" and our attitude towards Ukrainian. On that day, the faction did not vote in protest against those trades that were held between some factions and the government to support the government. But the final vote was effective, which was voted by your faction, the reputable leader. Therefore, do not pretend to be great Ukrainian patriots. And I'll say this in closing. Remember the beautiful phrase: A person comes into politics with a beautiful future and comes out with a terrible past. Remember this!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u27	Please, Peter Simonenko. There's already been a lineup, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u28	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. As Communists, yesterday at the Conciliation Council, we raised a question that was acutely raised today by the very life ahead of us, before the Supreme Council. This is the situation in the village, in the agri-industrial complex as a whole. We Communists have repeatedly warned that this reform would lead not only to the destruction of the village but to the famine of 2003. We are witnessing that artificially destroying the village is now being destroyed and that a food security problem is being put at risk. Therefore, we MPs Simonenko, Gurenko, Tkachenko make a proposal to draft regulation 3573. On June 10th, the Government's Day will consider the balance of food and feed and feed resources for the period 2003-2004 and the Government's measures to ensure food security instead of the issue there, "The specificities of the legal regime and the effectiveness of functioning" will be considered later. And a second offer. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I asked for a draft of Law 3373 Simonenko, Parubek and Puzakov, which introduced this week, is the introduction of a moratorium on raising the price of bread and bread products. The threat will be great, which is being exploited by the plight of the nation of those who have exported grain abroad and who are today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u29	Turn off the microphone. Dear National Deputies! Dear Peter Mikolaiovich! This motion for determination is, it's registered, now let the committee there consider it in an orderly manner, on Thursday we vote on this proposal that you put on the Conciliation Council, I mean the faction that we materialize it. With regard to draft Law 3373, I ask the secretariat to look into it, because there were no objections during the Conciliation Council, why this project is not available. Everything? Thank you. Bondarenko's procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u30	Vladimir Bondarenko, Our Ukraine. Dear fellow national MPs! Today we heard a speech by one of our colleagues, Mr. Weretennikov. Not long ago, we listened to Sovkovic’s speech, and it was not long ago that a statement was made by the entire group of Yulia Timoshenko’s Block concerning certain actions by the prosecutor’s office that violated the honour and dignity of the people’s deputies. But let's remember how we voted this time and last time. The fact is that those divided into political groups are never supported by their colleagues in their desire to bring about the rule of law and order in Ukraine. Remember Mr. Weretennikov and Mr. Sovkovic, as you voted when the Yulia Block of Timoshenko asked for support to be heard here in this General Prosecutor’s Hall. So let's not complain about the Attorney General or pray to the President, but first of all think about how we respect each other and how we follow the law ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u31	Dear colleagues! Let us continue to consider the matter according to the schedule of meetings. The issue "Report on the Implementation of Ukraine's State Budget Act 2002" is under review. Such rules of procedure are proposed. Please listen carefully. Report by the Minister of Finance - up to 10 minutes; answers to questions - up to 5 minutes; reports by the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs - up to 10 minutes; answers to questions - up to 5 minutes; reports by the head of the Court of Auditors - up to 7 minutes; statements by committees, factions and groups - up to 30 minutes. Is there no objection to such an order? Is it accepted then? Silence is a sign of consent. Yes, please, Mikola Janović, First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine. Please follow the rules of all interlocutors.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u32	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I would like to begin by saying that the 2002 budget is a clear example of what the budget should not be, it is the lack of a principled position of the Government that has allowed the adoption of an unrealistic budget. These are the political intrigues of the Supreme Council. In the Supreme Council, more precisely, which admitted that such an unrealistic budget had been adopted. As a result, none of the indicators set out in the 2002 budgeting were implemented. The basics. There have been serious errors in determining the rate of growth of gross domestic product. We planned it 6 percent, we actually got 4.8. As a result, the budget alone did not receive 485 million bracelets. We have invested in the budget an exchange rate of $5.6 per dollar in fact received $5.3, budget losses of $591 million, bracelets. We have set inflation at 9 per cent, we have deflation at 0.6 per cent, we have budget losses at 1 billion. The Supreme Council has adopted a number of laws that have reduced the tax base to 1 billion. Only by abolishing the benefits of the mining complex did the 2002 budget for the profit tax increase by 912 million grevens and the benefits were extended on 17 January 2002. Here's 3 billion unreceivable income. The expansion of benefits, the under-achievement of the profits of enterprises, has resulted in a shortfall in profits tax of more than 2 billion. [[is shown in Figure One]] Due to the decrease in imports of petroleum products into Ukraine, the planned excise duty rates for imported goods have not been reached by 120 million bracelets. The Government allowed the Oilgas of Ukraine to carry out clearing calculations in 2002 on fees for natural gas transit. However, no such calculations were made for 709 million. A total of 37 per cent of the planned business dividends were received, i.e. the budget did not include 207 million bracelets. It is also necessary to note that, despite efforts to attract revenue from privatization, the annual revenues were only 576 million. Exceeding the expected export growth of about 11 per cent during the year has led to a significant increase in value-added tax claims. Unfortunately, the problem is not new. And I've already acquired a chronic character. During 2002, we were forced to develop a set of tactical measures to reduce VAT recovery tensions and ensure that this tax enters the public budget from the main budgets of the emerging sectors of the national economy. However, resources were clearly insufficient to reduce unreimbursable amounts. The implementation of monthly general budget income plans, figure 5.6, illustrates how the cash gap had accumulated over the past year. The so-called peak came in November. As a result of 11 months, none of the provisions of the general public budget resource were implemented. At 1.12., the budget gap reached a critical point and, of course, it was not possible to break those trends within one month. In December, we had to provide almost 42 per cent of the annual borrowing of the common fund. Figure 7. In December 2002, 16.5 per cent of annual expenditures were incurred. In the package, all of the Government's organizational and economic measures were carried out in December, made it possible to align the situation during the last month of 2002, to create a certain amount of financial resources for salary payments in January 2003 and to lay the foundations for stable work this year. How was the 2002 budget implemented under such conditions? In fact, the consolidated budget of Ukraine was 61 billion. 954 million, figure 9. The public budget is 45 billion. 468 million Compared to the previous year, income has actually increased by 7 billion. Grieve. Local budgets received 28 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and the general budget of the Union and the general budget of the Union and the general budget of the Union and the general budget of the Union and the general budget of the Union and the general budget of the Union for the financial year 2014-2020. Gryven, of which incomes without transfers are 19 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure The General Fund of the State Budget for 2002 received 34 billion dollars. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure for the general budget of the Union. However, owing to the impact of a number of factors that I have already reported, the actual increase in income from the previous year was 17 per cent. General annual appointments were implemented by 94.1 per cent. A part of the Government's work to ensure stable income in the budget last year was the distribution of State budget indicators for the economic sectors and the consolidation of them by the relevant ministries and departments. A number of payments have not only been implemented but are also exceeded. However, significant shortfalls in a number of sources would not allow the year to be completed with a 100 per cent implementation of the State Budget Fund. Respectable people's deputies, another issue that cannot be overlooked, are the calculation of enterprises with tax and tax budgets. It's inconceivable. Despite the set of measures taken in this direction, absolute reduction in underperforming has not been achieved. I am sure that the vast majority of those who listen here in the Chamber know how multifaceted and serious this question is. This is the instability of legislation, the mass of tax benefits, the passages in legislation that enable tax evasion. It was not the last part of the tax write-off and set-off. You and I must understand that by putting in equal conditions good payers and indignant debtors regarding forgiveness of debts, we are relaxing and losing budgetary discipline. Respected people's deputies, the Government is constantly working to improve the efficiency of public spending. Since 2002, the concept of spending part of the State budget has been changed, and a policy-oriented approach has been introduced. What was the goal? To move from the principle of the content of budgetary institutions to the principle of achieving concrete results. I do not wish to argue that everything has gone perfectly, but there are some results: the expenditure of the State budget, based on the funds allocated to local grants, was $44 billion in 2002 or 9.8 per cent higher than in the previous year. This indicator already shows how much improvement has been made in the financing of the real budget. However, only 82.3 per cent of the planned reporting period was achieved. Here is the actual budget and the one that was adopted. The total fund costs amounted to 33 billion 887 million, or 17 per cent more than the previous year. However, the budgeted indicators were only 85.2 per cent. At the same time, the highest level of funding is provided under the following functions: education - 90 per cent, defence - 91 per cent, and the maximum level of funding is reached at 95.3 per cent for social protection and social security. Thanks to the priority and 100 per cent funding of social benefits, as well as control, almost zero arrears have been achieved on wages, pensions and scholarships. Payments made in respect of past years'arrears for social benefits were financed in full by December payments. We have been able to significantly improve the provision of equalization grants from the State budget. The total amount of the grants in the reporting period amounted to 4 billion 655 million or 109 per cent of the planned, that is, regardless of the level of performance achieved by the general government, the State had fulfilled its obligations to the local budget for the allocation of the equalization grants. Another important position is to honour the State's obligations to creditors. It can be argued that public debt payments and interest payments on them, both for external and domestic creditors, were made in 2002 on time and in full. In addition, we were able to provide this with a smaller resource, in fact State budget expenditure, repayment.The debt in 2002 amounted to 8 billion 541 million grivens. Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Thanks to the ongoing work carried out at the end of last year, as well as the clear and coordinated engagement of the Government and the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 2003, the planned indicators for both income and funding are fully implemented as a result of 5 months. This allowed for the abandonment of manual budget management and the transition to civilized budget funding. As early as the first quarter of 2003, we not only paid all the current fees, but also paid the arrears for the payment of assistance to families with children, poor families, disabled children, children with disabilities with whom they entered, unfortunately, earlier this year. In view of all the above, I propose that the 2003 State budget report be approved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u33	Please, the questions that are before the First Vice Prime Minister. Please sign up for five minutes. Please put your names on the board. People's deputy Bull, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u34	Thank you. Buiko, Donetsk district, Communist faction. Dear Mikola Janovich! I have a few questions for you. First, it's all governments that are constantly referring to the fact that one of the reasons why income cuts in the budget are a series of tax benefits. That's why the government doesn't make proposals to the Supreme Council of Ukraine after the tax cuts. That's the first one. and Why isn't there again a very important budget article, such as the 26th on the supply of insulins to patients with diabetes mellitus, on-the-spot medicines for cancer patients and tuberculosis patients that are purchased on the basis of central purchases. And the last. In the absence of funds for social expenditure during the second year, the government paid bills to Turkmenistan. These budget expenditures were not foreseen. Name the sum of the costs.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u35	Thank you. Turn off the microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u36	First. First of all, the Government has continuously introduced legislation aimed at reducing benefits. Unfortunately, the Supreme Council did not accept them. But in a positive way, I can remind you of the two laws that we passed in this room: the Income Tax Act and the Income Taxation Act of individuals who are greatly reduced in benefits. We have also reduced a significant number of benefits in the State Budget Act 2003. Therefore, work in this direction is ongoing. There is a need for coordinated work, particularly by the Supreme Council and the Government on this issue. With regard to insulin supplies, oncologically ill medicines and so on. Indeed, there was a certain debt in December. This debt was maintained in January as well. However, since February, these budget lines have been funded at a rate of 100 per cent, and there is no debt from the State budget to pay for these products. With regard to Turkmenistan's promissory notes, that is a topic. I think we'll give you a written answer to that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u37	Please, Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u38	Dear Nikolai Janović, we keep talking about the lack of funds in the budget. Unfortunately, that's also true. But see, in 2002, only nine types of payments made by the tax administration amounted to 56.3 billion bracelets, of which 31.9 billion bracelets were direct. Please tell me, how rational is this situation? Because we're cutting three of our skins off of each other, and the other we're giving benefits, and the fact that we're talking about today, there's no money and there's no money. Are we gonna be around these robberies for a long time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u39	I have answered that question several times. If a normal balanced budget is adopted, the budget will always have enough resources for everything, as is the case this year. I am absolutely responsible for the fact that we paid 100 per cent for all the items this year for all the items. Moreover, we have some small but certain resources that will enable us to finance any unforeseen expenditure in any case. Therefore, our main task in you is to adopt a balanced budget for 2004. And if we do, we'll have money with you both in 2004, and in the years to come. I mean, living by means.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u40	So you can understand, Mikolo Janovich, that at the level of mice, if we live, we're all going to have enough of this balanced budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u41	What's on the level of mice? Compared to 1998, we have doubled the amount of the State budget, even twice. Last year, we increased the actual budget expenditure by 9.8 per cent and had a real economic growth of 4.8. To live better by 10 per cent means to increase GDP by 10 per cent first, then we will be able to increase the budget by 10 per cent.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u42	Victor Slauta, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u43	Slata Victor, Donetsk district, faction of Ukraine's Agrarian Party. Nikolai Janovich, you need to look into the banal problem. You know, you've been preparing local councils to go to Treasury from Finland. There's a town in Komsomolsk called Starobjevo. It takes a thousand hundred sheets of paper to make a salary now. Five o'clock in the morning. And the wages didn't work properly. It's just that the local councils are getting away with the latest footage. I'd like to see you. That's a very big question, and that's exactly what's raising this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u44	The transition to treasury services for local budgets is irreversible. Such a transition will definitely take place this year. Clearly, this transition does not proceed smoothly and clearly, there is sheerity, clearly there is underdevelopment. The Government's task is to minimize these shortcomings. We will take this issue under control and will certainly take this matter seriously.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u45	Yes, instead of Lucenka Nikolainka, please. The faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u46	I'm sorry. Nicolanca. Dear Mikola Janovich! Two short questions. First question. Last year's budget -- maybe not to you, but you represent the government -- provided 150 million grants to local budgets for the partial implementation of article 57. You know, from September 1st, the extras for the internship were introduced to the teachers. But these 150 million were not sent to the local budgets, because Minfin then answered about you, they said, "We don't know how to allocate them." And that was clear enough for the teachers to pay. We have five regions today. Now, I have, I know, the Janovka of the Herson region of the month's unpaid salary since last year has passed this year. And the second. It's already this year. Mikola Janović, today we have a crisis situation at the Academy of Medical Sciences and the scientific research institutes of the Ministry of Health. We banned them from financing. Right, they should. From the State Budget to fund the sick, and to the district we forbade the payment of the operation. And today, tens of thousands of people come from areas. They don't treat in Kiev, they say there's no money; they can't give the area. How can you do that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u47	On the second question. On Thursday, the Act “Changes to the Budget Code”, which addresses this issue, is being passed. It will allow appropriate funding from local budgets for the public budget to be incurred in situations where public health institutions provide medical care to people who come from places. With respect to payroll debts. The budget provides that all budget savings should go towards meeting the arrears of past years. On 3 January this year, the Government issued a special order requiring all budget administrators to reduce the maintenance costs by 10 per cent and to send the savings to repay the debt. We must do so with this debt during this year, especially on wages, on our own. To be honest, it is surprising to me that 150 million dollars is outstanding, since the entire budget line, including the arrears of the local wage authorities, is now 48 million bracelets. So I'm going to figure out, 48 million is not in debt, but rather in arrears, that's the unpaid salary that's gone from month to month, and from month to month, it's going to be 39, 41, 42, to date, 48, we're not going to be able to increase debt. I'll figure it out by 150 million.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u48	Thank you, Mikola Janovich. Time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u49	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u50	The chairman of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko, has the floor for the report. Please, Peter Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u51	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. When we speak on the issue of the implementation of the State Budget 2002 Act, we can say today that there is no budgetary planning in Ukraine for 12 years. We are given a separate budget project that has nothing to do with reality. Another document is the vote of the national MPs. And in a completely different way, without any relation to Parliament, to the procedure, this budget is being implemented. To support this conclusion, we can say that by breaking the budget in terms of the components, we can analyze each individual of them. First. Proceeds to the State budget. Ladies and gentlemen, as early as October and November, all our distinguished government officials said to us, "Dear parliamentarians, please note, the state budget, the consolidated budget will by no means be implemented on the income side! At best, we're going to raise 42 billion. So in the 2003 budget, we can't take more than 46 billion." What do we see in fact? Mikola Janović told us today -- the income budget and the consolidated budget, and the state budget is implemented. In the first place, it is based on the over-exploitation of a special fund under the State budget, where incentives are available for the implementation of this budget indicator, and to a large extent not implemented under the general public budget fund. What we mean. On the income side. First. If the main reason for the failure to implement the general fund of the state budget is, in our view, the failure to implement the country's projected macro indicators of economic development. It's what it's made of. They planned one gross domestic product, they didn't make it 20 billion, we don't have any responsibility for that. Let me give you a little bit of numbers. Let us examine the gross domestic product and its trends in countries around the world. We will not be taking the United States, we will not be a Great Seven country, we will be taking our neighbors. Let's take the Czech Republic, which today has $7000 of gross domestic product per capita. It's like our colleague at a former socialist camp. But maybe there's some kind of malfunction. Let's take Romania. Let's take Russia. Let's take Kazakhstan. Russia Today 2400 dollars of GDP, in Kazakhstan today $1,700 of GDP, in Ukraine today $844. From such a low start, our economy, which once ranked among the GNI countries on an equal footing, today has these per capita rates. What does that mean? The absolute majority of the economy today is in the shade. And our crazy success in the growth of gross domestic product is actually the loss of our common policy of detining the economy. And unfortunately, not much effort has been made by the government in that direction. Moreover, macro indicators were certainly influenced by the fact that the economy did not have 8 billion. That's right. So this is a powerful cooling factor that kept the growth in gross domestic product going. The government’s efforts in the administration and collection of individual taxes should be analysed separately. For example, according to article 4 of the State Budget Act 2002 the government had to develop a draft decision on the establishment of a system of calculation and payment to the State Budget in 2002 for the transport of pipelines through Ukraine of natural gas, oil and ammonia. During the year, the government failed to make a decision that set up the tax administration system. As a result, we lost a substantial portion of the government's income due to the government's inactivity. It is not enough for the government to work to secure income from government property management. Dear colleagues, we've all been told that dividends from state property can't be entered into the State Budget, they don't happen every year. This year's Committee of Budgets predicted a clearly defined rule where we were supposed to include part of the revenue of state-owned enterprises in the State Budget. For four months, the government renegotiated without having ordered these funds to be included in the State Budget, which resulted in the State Budget not receiving a penny. Then, over the course of the month, the right decision was taken, it's not without questions, we, I think, will analyze the way it's being implemented together, the government, the Supreme Council, we're going to involve representatives of the real sector, but today I'm going to give you, honourable colleagues, shocking figures: within one month of May, 370 million dollars in this budget article came in, the annual norm. That's what it means when people start working and doing the law. It's not fully funded by NAC Naftogaz Ukraine to pay off the debt to the Ministry of Defence, and there are no other indicators. At the same time, special fund figures, respected colleagues, are being implemented and revised by 140 - 150 - 160 percent. This means another validation of the factor: there is no budgetary planning in our country. On the other hand, the implementation of the tax income plan for the added value to the State budget was primarily ensured by the accumulation of debt due to the non-reimbursable value added tax. Unfortunately, these trends are being maintained in the current year, and they have become a threat to the economy. If we continue this trend in 2004, we have a risk that the tax balance on the added value is going to be zero. And that means that these calls for a review of the tax administration system for the added value and changes to this tax are now gaining national security character. As far as tax is concerned, this subject has been thoroughly highlighted by the first vice-premier in his speech, but I can say that once again a joint decision, which was developed and agreed on by the budget committee, parliament and government, has allowed us to significantly reduce the amount of tax inefficiencies in the current year when we began to analyse each major taxpayer separately. And what measures at the legislative level we need to take. The most interesting position, the esteemed colleagues, is the cost of the State Budget. You all remember what I said at the beginning of my speech, that income was made. Now look at what happens to expenses. Expenditure was not incurred in 2002 for a total fund of $5.9 billion. Imagine almost 15 percent of the State budget, the articles that national MPs were dragging around here at the moment when the budget for 2002 was approved, were not funded. If you look at what wasn't funded and why it happened, by the way, the Budget Committee again, the Supreme Council in September-Yellow months went to the government, and you're not going to have a general fund. Go to the Supreme Council, conduct a budget sequencer, and see which articles you are not going to finance. Then we closed our eyes, deliberately moving away from it in order to eventually transfer the funding of the State Budget to manual administration. Now look, the lowest levels of execution among the protected budget articles are at cost. First. For food, they are funded only by 83 percent. The other one. Dear colleagues, note that medications have been funded by 57 percent of the year’s needs. And we're saying that we're fine. If you compare other expenses with unprotected articles, in the section of the principals, your colleagues, you will see very interesting figures. It turns out that our law enforcement agencies, for example, are financed by 92-99 percent. Our government administration, for example, is financed by 92 percent of other expenses, under unprotected articles. For example, you will find it interesting to find out, and how the Ministry of Health is financed. We can also give you this figure, the Ministry of Health is funded by 24.8 percent. And then we're going to analyze, and then how is the State budget being implemented. I'm sure, my dear colleagues, that these imbalances in other spending are extremely important, and they require an immediate legislative settlement of the procedure for the proportionality of allocating these funds. Needs some analysis, of course, and the use of funds from the contingency fund. For example. The reserve fund, in line with the March 4 decree, has allocated 5 million dollars to produce State rewards. Well, what's the backup fund? What Is the Unforeseeable Cost? Did something happen that we couldn't put these funds on the general budget? Other interesting things. From the State Budget Reserve Fund, we decide to pay the wages of a state-owned enterprise, from the Kabmina Reserve Fund, we pay the wages. I'm sure it's got to be questions that will be examined separately by the budget committee, because these trends, unfortunately, are being preserved for 12 years. And we have not yet succeeded in breaking this shameful practice. In particular, the issue of budgetary debt needs to be analysed. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I ask another two minutes, if you'll excuse me, in order to maintain a balance with the government position. Budget debt. The biggest increase in accounts payable has been made by the principal officials, such as Minpalevenergo, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Emergency Situations, or what has not been funded from the state budget, these principals have been taken over as liabilities, and they have moved with them in the current year. But what is particularly interesting is that today there is a question of unregistered debt. So this amount of debt went up by 221 million. This is contrary to article 18 of the State Budget Act and is a direct budgetary offence, and it shows an unsatisfactory level of budgetary commitment management and control with the acquisition of State Treasury and Chief Officials. The report on budgetary debt in general does not, for example, provide information on the debt of relief and compensation to citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. We were supposed to put 200 million out. By the end of the year, we had a 200 million reduction in this debt. In the end, we saw that the figure remained the same. So today with the inventory of this debt, and with the contingent that these benefits are provided, unfortunately, the issue remains open. I would like to put a stop to the financing of local budgets. Dear colleagues! For 550 million dollars from the government budget, we did not fund local budgets, and these are the sources that pay wages and finance local self - government entities. I'm sure this factor is unacceptable. And Mikola Janović has already indicated that a whole series of programs have not been funded at all. So, for example, there's no allocated amount of money at all to a subsidy for partial implementation of article 57 of the Ukrainian Education Act. 150 million we have foreseen in the 2002 State Budget, no copies have been allocated. Subsidy for maintenance of land-use centres for elderly and disabled citizens is 40 million. No money was allocated. We are confident that, for example, the computerization of rural schools. An amount was provided, with 5 percent of the annual assignments. I mean, why plan then if the government wasn't going to finance these extremely important social issues. At the same time, there is an interesting circumstance when individual local budgets do not provide full-scale government budgets. And these numbers are now almost 150 million dollars. And this problem is not settled. Dear Mikolo Janovich! I am confident that this problem requires legislative adjustment, debt and budgets to the State budget and their accounting for changes to the 2003 State Budget or to the 2004 draft budget. I, in summary, and in closing the speech, I'm sure that we should certainly draw conclusions from the implementation of the budget, we should break this shameful trend that we've had for 12 years. First. Attention is drawn to the Cabinet of Ministers’s need to ensure the completeness and timely payment of taxes and taxes to the budget and to reduce tax debts. Special attention should be paid to the administration of state-owned corporations.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u52	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u53	There is a need for a clear solution to the issue of tax compensation for the added value; to improve the level of financial discipline; and to make individual proposals we have under the Budget Code. But, dear colleagues, when on the budget committee yesterday, we analyzed or gave or failed to give a political assessment of the government's performance on the budget. The Committee on Budgets is doing everything we can to avoid unnecessary politicization. I've given you specific figures, and it's up to you to decide what kind of evaluation the government deserves for the 2002 budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u54	Yes, thank you. Questions, please. Perhaps everything has already been said. Please have a list of the names of the national MPs on the board. National Deputy Pecklusenko, faction of Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u55	Peter Alexievich, first of all, I want to thank you and Nikolai Janović for your support for the guards in the line " Bridges and Bank Slavyanski". At the same time, Nikolai Janović, I very much ask that these lines be filled with real money. Second question. I don't understand why in both reports, the main problem is the state of affairs in the country. Is it not clear that in the fall the peasants will be accounted for credit?Oh, my God! Today's the day. A programme for the national rescue of the agrarian sector is needed today. If we don't solve this problem, we're just gonna blow it. And one last question. The closure is not financed by capital contributions from the debt of the nuclear power plant. The Committee on Budgets, together with us, is asking us to resolve this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u56	Well, first of all, I'd like to thank you for your kind words, although the problem of the investors of the Slovenian Bank is solved without budgeting. And this is the main attraction of the procedure that was proposed and developed by the Budget Committee, together with the Zaporozhye National Deputies. We are currently considering the 2002 budget implementation report, not the budgetary implementation and direction of the use of the budget for the current year, including the critical situation that has now taken place in the country. But I can tell you that when I talked about the proportionality of spending, including on capital investments, for example, there were separate two areas in Ukraine that were funded by 100 percent of the capital expenditure, and the Landmark area was funded by zero percent in 2002 and none of them came to Zaporezki district. Now let's think about how we're going to evaluate the implementation of the 2002 budget, including from this point of view. As for the settlement of the issue of capital deposits this year, the budget committee, together with the government, is prepared to consider and take action on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u57	Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u58	Peter Alexiyovich, it is clear that the budget committee does not make a political evaluation of budget implementation and this is correct, but a professional evaluation and recommendation should be given to the Supreme Council. After all, the 2002 budget, first of all, is not implemented. Second, performed manually. Thirdly, the report shows that there were such, mildly speaking, inadequacies in the use of funds in various articles and in overcrowding, and in the reserve fund, and in others. On the basis of these considerations, can we not make such an assessment that the implementation of the 2002 budget by this government, which was then, was, firstly, unsatisfactory? And secondly, let's take note of these shortcomings so that they don't continue in the current budget, including funding from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Security Service, the State Tax Service, the State Border Guard at the expense of charity grants. Thus, we are turning the State’s protection into protection for some benefactors who have no influence on the protection of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u59	Thank you, Reverend Eugene Alexiovich, for asking. I must report, not my personal position, but the position of the Committee on Budgets. The budgetary committee on this issue has not yet taken a decision to assess the government’s performance in implementing the budget. I think we'll do it today or tomorrow at a committee meeting. The facts that I have and that I have informed the honourable colleagues of the national MPs, I think, are convincingly indicative of the fundamental flaws, that the implementation of the budget is that the State Budget Act 2002 was not implemented by the government. Therefore, there is no need to transfer responsibility to any other entity, including the government's inaction to collect individual taxes and the disproportionate financing of expenditure. I am confident that the Supreme Council is able to determine for itself, the budget committee will propose a draft decision to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u60	Plutinski, Ukrainian Agrarian Party faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u61	Dear Peter Alexiovich, I have listened carefully to your speech and, indeed, many conclusions can be drawn. I'd like to ask you two questions. First. Can we not say the amount of money that is paid for unemployment in our country? That's one question. And the second. It's about the agrarian sector. My colleague was already asking questions. I would really ask you, this is more, maybe, Mikoli Janovich's question to ask, but for the budget committee to pay more attention, we don't have a claim to you, we've been paying more attention to agriculture, it's going away today. It's amazing, it's the security of our nation. And I'd like you and the entire budget committee to support agriculture. Thank you, Peter Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u62	I think, despite our firm position on the budget committee, that there are no other expenditures other than those aimed at raising the minimum wage, we don't consider, the budget committee has moved away from this principle and supported the government's proposal for additional funding -- 576 million. - to solve the crisis in agriculture. We understand. That these cats aren't enough, but, uh, respectable ones, for example, we have questions about the efficient use of even these funds. And today, I propose that the agrarian committee, the government, the budget committee together immediately determine their vision of the urgent use of these funds to support the position of the village. As far as unemployment is concerned. Unfortunately, I stress, unfortunately, that now the state's spending on unemployment is not in the state budget, it's out of control. I can tell you that these contributions to the trust fund, to the fight against unemployment, more than 20 percent of the funds go to self-sustaining. In addition to today’s unemployment benefits, especially in the countryside, such a figure that it is convenient for a person to register on the labour market because he will receive more than a person who is actually working in the field 24 hours a day. And this issue needs urgent settlement, including in budgetary terms. I thank you, Vladimir Anatolyevich, for this question. We're sure that this is a question now and it's in the budgetary committee's perspective as necessary to solve it. Here I think we'll work together with the Committee on Social Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u63	Thank you, Peter Alexiovich, time is up. Thank you. I invite you to report to the head of the Chamber of Auditors of Ukraine, Valentina Konstantinovich Simonenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u64	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished people's deputies, respected members of the Government! The Court of Auditors carried out an analysis of the Government's implementation of the State Budget Act 2002. The conclusions are presented to the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, and according to the rapporteurs, they have been used actively, our conclusions, in their reports. I will therefore focus only on the main and current budgetary policy issues. Was the first, real or unrealistic budget of 2002? At the conclusion of the Court of Auditors last year, there was real opportunity to implement the income portion of the State budget. Consider that the accrued amounts of taxes and payments to the budget have significantly exceeded the figures approved by the State Budget Act, but the Government has not been able to achieve full income. The reason is simple: calculation of fiscal and monetary credit policies, lack of public access to tax administration. I will not list the figures that have already been reported today, but I can only say one thing: no indicator, no macroeconomic indicator on which the 2002 budget was based, with the exception of a 107 per cent increase in industrial production, has been implemented. And who was to enforce them, who proposed? The Government, which was required by law to implement those macroeconomic indicators. Hence the loss of an exchange rate of 600 million bracelets, the loss of inflation of about 700 million bracelets, the direct loss of added tax benefits of 800 million bracelets. The next question is how to explain the actions of the Government and our fiscal authorities to ensure the receipt of the taxes accrued. Tax evasion has increased more than twice over the last year by 8 billion grevens and has exceeded 14 billion, which is the fourth part of the State budget. Consider this situation. The company received profits and taxed, the buyer received a certain amount of value-added tax and these are in the accounts of enterprises, but no taxes have been paid to the State. I'm not going to give many examples. I'm just going to give you the most typical example. The national company Naftogaz in Ukraine increased its inadequacies on profit taxes four times in 2002. Up to one billion, 300 million bracelets. In the meantime, the company as a whole had a gross return of 5 billion. And she had the full opportunity to pay taxes, but she didn't pay a penny. Of course, in such uncertain budgetary policies, the general government income fund remained unfulfilled against approved indicators of 2 billion. And what the Government is doing to itself and saying is that, in principle, it has been implemented, because the income under the special fund has been overrun, is not relevant to the provision of budget requirements. Indeed, the funds used from the public and from the special fund cannot be spent on public and public needs. These are dedicated funds from specific institutions. And as far as we're concerned, it's not one year that we've been saying in this room that this imbalance has to be eliminated that unfortunately stands in the same place. Failure to implement the income part naturally resulted in the non-consumer part. At 5 billion 200 million grevens. Of these, social costs, direct account, $2 billion, 500 million in bracelets. Medical, education, social protection, local budgets. But what is not clear and, as it is said, undetermined, out of the 500 million bracelets in a row, no bracelet has been allocated to the social protection of certain programmes at all. This is with the Government implementing the budget in the so-called system of surpluses. The pros have to be said a little separately. According to the Government's report, the State budget last year, instead of the planned deficit, was met with a surplus of 1 billion, 119 million grevens, including the total fund of 800 million. What a pro is, it's too much money. At the same time, the Government did not ensure that the approved laws and expenditures were implemented. The answer is simple: Why? Yes, because, as in previous years, the Government managed the budget manually, limiting some costs and carrying out others on a discretionary basis. Talks about budget sequestration, i.e. budget entry into the legal cycle, did not last much, little, 7 months, but did not have a solution. The Ministry went the easy way by paying off the public debt from the common fund for other expenses and, above all, social payments. To justify anything, the Ministry of Finance decided, in August last year, to temporarily limit the appropriation of the general fund to 2 billion 211 million. I would like to emphasize that there was no legal basis for this. The Government has not responded at all. The Ministry then changed the decision and overturned the decision, but created an artificial living line for four months to obtain legal budgetary resources. What is the order and profit of each of us is clearly understood. And the last. The bill says so. The implementation of the State budget should be approved and the existing Government should learn from the experience of the implementation of the State budget last year and address the real problems of budgetary policy rather than manipulate: realistically. Otherwise, it will happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, we agreed that there would be no questions, but since you insist, let's take five minutes to ask. But I asked you, does he have any objections? They said it wasn't about the schedule. Please sign up, please put your name on the board. People's MP Chelnokov, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u66	Pass it to Puzakov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u67	Please, Puzakov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u68	Dear Valentina Konstantinovich! Please tell the National Court of Auditors of Ukraine that the use of ministries and government funds is not targeted and ineffective, resulting in expenditure on budgets, violations of current legislation and other financial irregularities. To what responsibility or administrative, or criminal, are these ministries or authorities involved?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u69	Each of our submissions is subject to review in the Ministry, orders are issued, and managers are punished. But, frankly, it's not about punishment, it's about the existing system of financial and economic control in our country that just doesn't exist. Not in individual executives, but in the system. Because it usually violates the main violator is the Ministry of Finance. And frankly, the 2002 budget was not implemented because it was unrealistic because there were no professionals, there was a lack of professionalism, of the notion that it was a budget. Because bankers still do the budget today. It's kind of the same thing, but it's two big differences.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u70	National Deputy Kostinuk, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u71	The national movement of Ukraine, "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinyuk. Dear reporter! The report and the statement by the Head of the Budget Committee referred to budgetary imbalances when nearly 100 per cent of the institution was funded in one area or another, and 25. I could follow up on this example when, for example, 7 million people were budgeted for the financing of the consequences of a natural disaster in the Ivano-Franco region in 2002 and 10 times less were implemented. At the same time. This figure was 92 percent in the rural area of Zacarpathia. How, then, can these imbalances, these injustices, be prevented in the future? How so? What does it depend on? What do we need to do to get the Ministry of Finance, if it's not even very honest, to say that, to make them do it by law or by law? What should we do?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u72	First of all, respect the law on the proportionality of budget allocation in the expenditure component for the implementation of the income part. That's the first thing. Offenders are punished as required by the law. Unfortunately, however, our perceptions are said to be mandatory. I can say once again that there is no system of influence on lawbreakers. Why did the Government want to do so with the 2002 budget? Why was the Ministry of Finance disbursed on its own? Until the system of irresponsibility rules over everything. I can honestly tell you that this isn't because Nikolai Janović is sitting here, but this year there's a quarter-end, after four months there's a system and it's really gradual, but I think people are getting away from the manual spending management system. Gradually.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u73	One second. Yes, Vitaly Shibko instead of Lucenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u74	Socialist Party of Ukraine, Vitaly Šibko. Valentin Konstantinovich, you will now answer, just say, please go to the microphone, or you have not heard your previous reply. What did I want to ask? In the Court of Auditors today, what is the disadvantage of a local budget from the fact that an enterprise located in a city uses its land and does not pay. Why am I saying that? This is where the women in the Dneprodijnsk tram drivers announced the hunger strike today. Why? Because they haven't been paid their wages since '99. Why aren't they paying? Because a giant in the territory of the city of Dneprodjøržinska, the Døržinský factory, has moved into the administration of a financial group through Ukrisibbank, they have used it for two years, 12 million have accumulated debts, not paid, gone. Others have now come and, in general, 12 million have not come to the city, while tram drivers have suffered and declared hunger. Is there a figure or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u75	Of course, we have a figure like this, if, as it's said in pure form, we're literally in the course of a few hours of it, as it's said, we can count. But the fact that the system is widespread and that the Government, at least in 2002, has not responded in any way to this situation is 100 per cent. I'll give you another example, we're talking about understatement. Last year, the disadvantage of the Dnieprov metalworking combination was 65 million and the situation was the same. This combination did not receive much, nor did 290 million bracelets arrive in just one year. Well, how can you react when it's all empty, abandoned as it flows, so it flows. The local authorities could not influence this, but the Government, which was implementing the budget, and the budget was the law, should certainly ensure it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u76	Thank you. Time's up. Thank you, Valentin Costinovich. Let's move on to the discussion, as we agreed, 30 minutes. Please highlight those who sign up for the talk. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please. Get ready for Cyril Polishku.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u77	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen of the nation, the distinguished, suffering people of Ukraine! The Budget Committee didn't want to be politicized, but it did say the figures on the terrible execution, and I'm not afraid of politicization. I'm going to say that what I'm talking about today, and Valentine Konstantinovich Simonenko, and Peter Poroshenko, is a system of criminal power in action. It's working. Where there were 25 million grand. in English? Where the share is 110 million. To fund jobs in the fight against tuberculosis and cancer? Where did they go?Oh, my God! Why is the Ministry of Health funded by 24 percent?Oh, my God! Why computerization of cities, a village of only 5 percent? If we have 100 percent planned. And the answer, I think, is in this letter by Leonid Danilovich Kuchma from May 27th to us. And he writes, "It causes anxiety and that almost half of the country's economy continues to be in the shadow sphere." This is quoted by the President of the State! I quote the President of the Power. He is indeed in the shadow realm. And why there is no system of retribution, as our great friend Simonenko says. Because no one reads the Criminal Code. And the Attorney General, Svetoslav Mikhailovich Piscon, does not want to apply it to government officials, because there is no political will from the Bank, not the need, Svetoslav Mikhailovich, you have the political will of the Bank. You open article 210 of the Penal Code, it says, "The violation of Ukrainian legislation on the budget system. The use by the service person of budgetary resources contrary to their intended purpose, or in amounts exceeding the approved expenditure limits, and the failure to meet the requirements for proportionate reduction of budget expenditure or the proportionate financing of budget expenditure of all levels, as established by valid budgetary legislation, if the subject matter of these activities was a particularly large cost, or repeated, is punishable by a 2 to 5-year limit of will." [[Part 2]] 211 articles are the issue of legislation or regulations, which refers to the vast majority of the government's regulations and orders and individual ministries, and three to ten years' imprisonment. So, Valentina Konstantinovich, there's really not what we've accepted, that's what's going on. The problem is that these organs are missing. Where did the money go? Look what's going on. The State Customs were able to raise their salaries by a hundred percent. Overexpenditure for work in connection with the adoption of illegal regulations - 400 million A bracelet, and we're making genocide. It wasn't us. It was you who ran the genocide. And today we do not give a political assessment of the implementation of this budget! But she's a criminal, that grade. Today, debt to foreign creditors has been restructured and 1.2 billion have been lost as a result of this restructuring. That's right. This, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, should be given a political assessment. And I'm giving her this political evaluation right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u78	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u79	And the people of Ukraine are dying! And we say no one died and no one was shot.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u80	Mikola Polishchuk, National Authority MP. Is there a Polishchuk? None. Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction, please. Prepare Anatoly Frost. Anatoly Frost, please. Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, Get ready for Bespalloma.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u81	Anatoly Moroz, election district 83, Zaporez region, Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished guests, members of the government! Let's think about how the 2002 budget was adopted. Not that he accepted it, but that he stretched out in different ways. And as we accepted it, we have what we have today. It's true. When you listen to information from the government that we've heard today, we see that it seems to be the sum of 2002, it seems to indicate that Ukraine's economic growth has been sustained, because the real increase in domestic gross product has been 4.6 percent. I agree with you, Mikolo Janovich, you said that if we want to increase wages there, pensions and so on, let's say 10 percent, we need to increase GDP by 10 percent. But your information says that in 2002, gross product, GDP grew by 4.6 percent, which means it should increase, respectively, and all the funding, so to speak, or the implementation of our budget. And we see a completely different picture. And it's not surprising. I'd like to bring you, Mikolo Janovich, to our district of Zaporozhye. The citizens of our area don't feel that it's growing in our economy. I'm going to remind you that the Zaporozhye area is second to the per capita income and 22nd to the per capita expenditure. It would seem like a narrow area, well, somehow you should live a little better. And I don't understand it, Mikolo Janovich, which is why Zaporezki is not respected, because the fact that the 2002 budget is being implemented is very different. I'll tell you, government capital investments last year are only 42.7 percent, health care programs are only 27 percent, health care is absolutely nothing. So do we. And this is because we've been discussing the problem of tuberculosis recently and I've been talking about how in the Zaporozhye region it hasn't progressed for 20 years, there's been absolutely no funding for the acquisition of equipment to fight this disease. The purchase of insulin is 55.5 percent, well, and the computerization of schools, in general, is probably thanks to the government for initiating the Rural Computer Class. In a previous cut from 19 computer classes that were planned, the Zaporezka area didn't get any computer classes. And in general, with regard to the income part of the budget, I would like to remind Mikolo Janovich that the faction of Communists has always insisted and insisted that we hold a special meeting of the Supreme Council with the government, maybe invite the President here and the President to take up the income part of the budget, and then we'll share. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u82	Thank you. Oleg Bespalov. None. Please, Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, prepare Masenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u83	Dear colleagues! Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. We're looking at an extremely important issue today, it's become traditional that the government doesn't implement the budget. From year to year, we listen to the report, and we say, it's very bad, it would be better for him to do it, and it doesn't work, and we talk about it again, and no one is responsible for it. The basic economic law of the State is not implemented year after year. The government says it's not a real budget, I answer, it's a lie. And yet again, it's a lie. The budget is not implemented because it is not real, but because the government does not. And usually he doesn't want to do it. And we need to ask a sharp question about responsibility. The Yushchenka government, executed in 2001, implemented the budget. The government of Yushchenk has been sent, the budget has not been implemented. I'm not Yushchenka's apologist, and I'm critical of him, as I am of myself and of everyone, but the fact remains that the budget was being implemented. The Supreme Council sends out a government that executes a retirement budget, after which the budget is not implemented. Who should be responsible for the budget failure? The government and the Supreme Council that sent the government that executed the budget. The problem of accountability exists in Ukraine's irresponsibility wakhanalia, and that's why government officials are acting that way, so that's how the Supreme Council behaves, because no one is falling for the sword of the natives. And it has to hang over the power constantly, and if the power doesn't work effectively, it has to fall. And it turns out that often this sword falls on the head of someone who works successfully and does not fall on the head of someone who works ineffectively. What is the root of the problem? The root of the problem is that Yushchenko's government has started pulling the economy out of the shadows and solving social problems. A lot of people didn't like that. After that, the government began to hide the economy in the shadows. That's the trend we have in the economy. Three billion-dollar sequential. I've already said it and I'll say it again, if the government is making a budget sequester, then the Supreme Council should be sequestering the government. The truth of the government has been changed, a new government has come. Again, problems with execution. And finally the last relative to the big lie about the fact that there are no funds to fill the budget. Government's main problem: budgeting. The main problem for Parliament is the distribution of these funds. So we've got about 18 billion dollars of tax money that the government can't collect, which every year we put into the growth budget and about 700 million of the rate of undernuts growing every month. Four billion VAT frauds, concealing profits, hiding the economy in the shadows. There are costs, they need to be withdrawn and directed into the budget, and then the budget will be implemented and there will be no secester. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u84	Alexander Masenko. I'm out, yeah. Please, Basil Nadrag. Get ready, is Taras Cranville there? None. Then Konovaluku. None. Then it's Mastrich's.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u85	Vassili Nadrag, Lugansk Region, People's Choice. Dear colleagues, we are discussing numbers with you today. The numbers are spoken as follows. Total amount of 100.2 per cent. Is that a good thing? There are some questions. This raised the question that we have a common State budget fund and a special fund. Thus, the general fund was implemented by only 94.1 per cent. And that is, in large measure, everything, including, so to speak, including the local budgets that we have discussed here today. I would like to focus on a few things that make up the income and expenditure. I don't take the courage to evaluate the situation as a whole, I can say. To date, the benefits given to special economic zones and priority development areas are a considerable amount when we talk about whether or not we have lost money for the budget. In particular, it should say that for 2002, this amount amounts to $176.4 million in bracelets. This could be agreed if the discussion was that we were investing money in the development of production. But, my dears, we have grown by 395 million bracelets or 2.7 times compared to 2001. What's going on in there? And that's where the meat and the co-products of the domestic bird came in. What's the situation with the poultry industry in Ukraine, I don't think there's any point in talking in this room. In recent years it has started to rise, but unfortunately, with such actions, we not only put our own producer on our knees, but we kill, and that's what they tell us. And I think we can agree with that terminology. Therefore, the essence of the problem rests in the following. In giving any benefits, and even more benefits from the State budget, we must clearly understand that to support our producer, the more the poultry industry is sufficiently resilient in that the investment goes much faster than all other meat industries, I think that we should not only do such things in 2003 but also in the future. Next question. We talked about that today, as a result of 2002, at 750 million bracelets, the figures I have, the local budgets have not received funding. From here it turns out that we have the salaries of the budgeters, from here on in front of the Chernobyl victims, who have grown by 41.9 million grivens, and in general these budget commitments have become 646.6 million grivens. That's what a lot of money is for. Now, literally, the two thoughts that emerged in part of the proposal. First. Or perhaps there is a point for us today to consider with you what is an added value tax, which, in fact, does not fulfil its economic or financial component for the budget, and therefore may make sense of a simpler understanding, including an administrative tax, for example, a sales tax. He'll be more aware of the manufacturer, he'll understand the rest.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u86	Thank you, Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u87	And lastly, Vladimir Mikhailovich, literally five seconds. I was a little upset by the situation. We had the head of the Court of Auditors here, and he said that there was no system, and after the discussion began, he left. I don't think that's right because I wanted to ask him one question. We'll hear next year that there's no system in control. Could it be that the Court of Auditors should find its place in this monitoring system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u88	Thank you. Vladimir Masterskin, faction of "Ukraine". Get ready for Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u89	Dear colleagues! When today we are discussing the implementation of the 2002 State Budget. So we mean that the government that worked at the time is gone, and the new government has been working on the budget for almost two months. And so the only thing that made me go out to the rostrum today is to try to invent some mistakes so that we don't use them, so we didn't have them again for the next year and the achievements that we used them. So I'd like to draw attention to the problem of government debt. The problem of government debt, it is said, was constantly like this for us national deputies. The government is doing it and he's doing it professionally. I draw your attention to the following aspects of this problem. First. In this spending part of the budget every 4 bracelet goes into debt, to pay off the principal amount of debt and per cent of pennies, and that's why it's a very big problem. But the bigger problem is that today we have about 80 percent of our external debt and a small amount -- about 20 percent of our internal debt. And look, in the 2002 government report today, I've seen figures that only 1.4 billion dollars have been made in the internal market of more than one billion dollars, or more than one billion dollars have not been selected in the internal market. And why? So because it's very simple today in the internal market, then in 2002, the government offered just over 7 percent on the income of these papers, and in the external market, more than 10 percent. So today I am paying attention to the government so that, for the next year, when we plan income on domestic bonds, we will have to consider that as many domestic loans as possible should be involved. And this should be a strategy for the development of the internal market, on the one hand, even though we can deny here that we can overturn the internal market when very much money is being eliminated into the budgetary sphere. But consider that our borrowers have to make more money than external borrowers are on the one hand. And on the other hand, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that planning for the Department of Public Debt to increase internal market participation has gone a little bit off, almost 50 percent of the implementation of the plan in this position. Perhaps you can also consider the proposal to take away such an opportunity from the Ministry of Finance, to replace the internal and external markets, if not in the internal market, to go to the external market. This is also possible as an experience in the implementation of the 2002 budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u90	Thank you. Taras Cranville, prepare for Hinsburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u91	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. Every time we get a report on the implementation of the previous budget, we're actually listening to a new government that reports on heroism there or achievement or loss of a previous government. In this case in this year, I will allow myself to make such a small political trailer, but I had the hope that there would be mutual co-responsibility, because both the previous government and the new government were part of the only political general union that went together in the elections for Ukraine alone, and that the new government would also be responsible for the implementation of the budget last year, including for what they had no direct impact on. Unfortunately, for the most part, we see some contrast, some conflict, and even if we take, really admit that in the last two months, in December, there were some greater achievements, I would still like this responsibility to be common and shared. As for the previous budget execution last year. First. This budget was neither social nor innovative. So anyway, he was unsuspecting for the further development of the Ukrainian state. Any budget in which, and in particular, it reduces social benefits and increases benefits for both individual enterprises and their manufacturing sectors cannot in principle be regarded as positive. So since the aprior, I can only view it as a complete negative. The budget was particularly painful in a number of social areas and was very painful in terms of grants, local budgets, and transfers to local budgets. Let us not forget that it is from local budgets that the most painful sectors, the most social sectors, and, in particular, education, medicine, and so on are financed. And that's why this budget, its implementation last year actually hit both the social sphere and the people's trust in their state. I would very much like for this year, which is now -- 2003 -- when is the next time you report to either the next government, or this one so that we can put on a completely different accent. But unfortunately, we see in the execution of this year's budget actually the same mistakes that were made in the past. Let's break up and take a little tour of the past, when we received the 2000 budget year report, when we were actually trying to make some structural changes in economic development, in the development of the budgetary process, when the Yushchenk government was in operation, we had an absolutely opposite situation. And we could, in fact, normally listen to this report without serious warnings, except for small things. So once again, I think the budget has been inadequately implemented, a whole series of questions deserve to be evaluated as criminal, and so I hope in the decision to be made on this point, we'll make just the right estimates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u92	Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction. Grigory Omelchenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u93	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! Hinzburg, 161 constituency, Communist faction. I went up to this rostrum to discuss the budget, and I have an opinion on this. Some of the speakers today were so dismayed, quietly said that once, as our country was part of the Soviet Union, per capita GDP was something like that. It was about $3,600 or how much per soul. And now we're down to $800. Over the past eleven years, all governments have been working worse and worse, and that is a fact. That's not what I'm saying, not a communist, that's what the opposition said today. And I thought, why didn't the communists vote for the 2002 budget? Why? Because that's what they wanted or what they wanted. There are objective reasons for this, for the GDP that was being talked about at the time gave each citizen a sense of his own country. Airlifting, we are now experiencing this problem in Ukraine, we were developing at the time. Fitting. We grew up then. We had no one at the time to talk about what we had to pay for colleges. Now the children have graduated from school, and parents are tormented — how can they join a child’s institute if he is from a poor family or a rural family? And this is also the budget today. And of course. That in order for us to talk about the real budget, we need to know the problems that exist today. I respect Mikola Janovich, but I don’t know when we can say that we’re doing so well! What a challenge!Oh, my God! Such problems! Here are my problems, my district, they bother me. I would like them to be translated into the Cabinet of Ministers, which has decided them today. This is the first and most important! The price of coal. We have a good budget today, but coal can't buy a simple family. They're freezing in the houses. We don't have any schools today, because they don't have coal, they don't have funding, we've already forgotten when there was a club in the village. We're saying today that utilities, if my city's two-room apartment is only 90 with a bracelet hook to pay for the heat of the family, where do you get that money? Can you live for 10 bucks, a normal person? This is also the problem of today’s budget. We're saying that last year, 2002 was the problem with the bank "Ukraine" and the money in the village councils that people were collecting for gasification or some other kind of operation, the bank "Ukraine," its destruction took away, and today we can't solve the issue. And I'm still talking about how difficult we are with health care. If someone is dealing with a major MP, a constant problem, people can't be treated, they die. I am not saying this to tell you something beautiful, but to make a profit today to conduct and organize five or more funeral offices in the city. You look at your cities: one was once, now it's 5.6 and seven, they're already a profit because that's how people die, and it's also a budget. Today, when I received the documents that we were given, there were about forty laws, I found this thought for myself. I would like the government today to have all the problems in our state, every deputy in the district, every head of the administration, and this debt to businesses, state enterprises, to their citizens, to their employees, to go on for years. I have the Svema factory, the CVR plant, the Red Metals factory, and I can call the others, they're not reflected in the budget. It should be as I would have done: not to wait, every MP brought it out. The law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u94	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u95	No, I want to make a deal, some law that's right: one thought about it, one thought about it! How do we determine whether this law is in charge today or not? Here's the red letter, in capital letters today, the Cabinet of Ministers should be in the Supreme Council, let it be that this paint is attached to your hands, so that you remember that these main laws today, we have to spin around them, Vladimir Mikhailovich, otherwise we'll talk, and the work will stand on the city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u96	Gregory Omelchenko, if you please, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u97	Grigory Omelchenko, the electoral bloc of Yulia Timoshenko, the Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the head of the Association of Ukrainian Officers. Honorable National Deputies, distinguished compatriots! Personally, I've heard the previous government's report on the state budget's progress in every previous year, and it's the same thing as breaking up government funds for hundreds of millions of dollars in US dollars, not targeting government budgets for hundreds of millions of dollars, or US dollars. Each time the head of the Court of Auditors before his speech gives the National Deputies the results of the examination, where these violations of the current legislation and the conclusions of the Court of Auditors have been indicated, so that the Attorney-General gives a legal assessment, and in all these years none of the members of the Government, the heads of the Cabinet of Ministers, has been held responsible. I'm not talking about a criminal, not even a moral disciplinarian. When released from office, with appropriate wording. Why is that, dear fellow countrymen, we just have a state with all its institutions that have signs of organized crime, we have a state mafia today that uses state budget funds for its own personal enrichment. Take the number of parliamentary requests voted in this room, and Anatolia Jermak and other national MPs, on the non-target use of government budgets for hundreds of millions of US dollars by Pavel Ivanovich Lazarenko. The result is that Kuchma rewards him with the Order of Prince Jaroslav the Wise. At one of the meetings, the President himself says that the government led by Valerius Pavlovich Pavlovytenko, half a billion dollars, did not use the bracelet for the purpose of doing what Kuchma did after that, was rewarded by the Order of Prince Jaroslav the Wise. Dear friends! Another example was made. And I want to know that the Attorney General gave the answer. In 2001, when the Prime Minister was China, the President of Ukraine bought for his apartments in the service office chairs, furniture, tables and so forth a total of $2 million,600,000,132 99 cents in Italian form. The imported furniture wasn't stocked, I'm sorry, it wasn't worn, no. No, they didn't pay taxes to the state budget, that's hundreds of thousands of U.S. dollars. I have a question. 20 seconds, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, and I'll finish. Why is the President's desk worth $10,000,565? Why would he have two rocking chairs worth almost $19,000? Why does he have a magazine table worth nearly $5.5,000? I conclude, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear friends, we will repeat the same thing year after year. And even if the Court of Auditors had once concluded that the use of state budget funds by the Cabinet of Ministers was unearmarked, we should have just voted in favour of expressing mistrust to the government, resigning it, whether it worked for a year or a year or a year or a year, and the materials to the Attorney General's Office for the offence and the prosecution. Mr. Attorney General, if you can hear me, if you don't give a legal assessment of the President's actions in the purchase of this furniture and the purposeless use of the state budget, as indicated in the report of the Court of Auditors, I appeal to the Ukrainian National Deputies to express their mistrust and withdraw it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u98	Thank you. Alla Alexandrovska, please, the Communist faction. Please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u99	Alexandrovska, town of Harkov, faction of Communists. I wish to draw my colleagues' attention to only one budget position, but it is very serious and very substantial and in fact leads to the moral terror that is being committed today by utilities and authorities towards Ukrainian citizens. This is a failure to implement the budget for subsidies to be channelled from the State budget to the regional level to pay benefits and to veterans of labour and to veterans of the Great Homeland War, utilities benefits and so on. Almost 100 per cent of the budget would have been implemented: 73 per cent, 79 per cent. But this lack of implementation leads to the fact that utilities, which do not fully receive the necessary funds to ensure their activities, do not receive the money to cover the cost gap and the tariffs paid by the population, are actually forced to wage war with the population of Ukraine today. Today, in Kharkiv County, we have small notes in all the mailboxes that don't have a return address that tell people that if you don't pay off the public payments, we're going to call you to court and you're going to be prosecuted, we're going to collect those amounts and even out of the pension, out of the scholarship. You know what happens when an old man who pays the last penny for utility bills, and he's a war veteran, he gets that note. What is more, when war veterans are taken off buses that have today replaced virtually public transportation, they are taken off buses because the benefits of this category of citizens are not paid either. These 70 per cent that have been implemented in the budget are very painful for those people who need our help and support today. Only the Harkovsky Subvention Region did not receive nearly 37 million bracelets. That is why veterans are suffering today, indeed, terror is taking place against them. I believe that the Government has done nothing to address this problem. And I believe that we must recognize the work of the Cabinet of Ministers in the implementation of the budget last year as unsatisfactory, and commit ourselves to paying back these debts in the near future in order to end this moral terror that is being pursued throughout Ukraine today with regard to those people who, on the contrary, need our assistance and support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u100	Dear colleagues! Question completed. Nikola Janovich, do you have any final thoughts? Please, from the spot, if you please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u101	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Of course, I do not agree with everything that was expressed here by the people's deputies and the chairman of the budget committee, Petr Aleksieevich Poshenko, not with the individual conclusions, and Valentina Konstantinović, not because I want to protect someone. I disagree because these conclusions do not correspond to the actual situation. However, I accept all the criticisms made to the Government and clearly consider them to be those that should be taken into account this year and we will try to ensure that this criticism is not addressed to us in the 2003 budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u102	Dear colleagues! Question completed. Decisions will be made taking into account the discussion, in accordance with the Rules on the day of the vote. A draft law on the return of privatized property to state and municipal property is being announced for consideration. The reporter is head of the State Property Fund, Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov. Please, Michael Vasilovich. Such a review of the rules is proposed. In seven minutes. 5 minutes - answers to questions, 5 minutes - for a report, 5 minutes - for a question to a co-rapporteur, 10 minutes - for discussion. No objections? Please, Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u103	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! For the consideration of the Supreme Council, a draft Ukrainian law on the return of privatized property to state and municipal property is presented. Article 41 of the Constitution states that the compulsory alienation of private property objects can only be applied as an exception to the grounds of social necessity and on the basis of and in accordance with the law established and provided that their value has been compensated in advance and in full. The long-term privatization in Ukraine was mainly focused on fiscal objectives of budget replenishment, not on increasing efficiency of production, motivation for work, investment in the enterprise. Hence, buyers often sought not only to acquire government property for entrepreneurial purposes but also to save them from inflation, as well as to sell them in a more favourable market environment. Under these conditions, owners were not in a hurry to invest the necessary funds to upgrade and re-arm production, which was certainly not in the interests of the State. In modern conditions of privatization, reprivatization should be seen as a mechanism designed to determine the most appropriate conditions for the operation of an object, that is, forming or facilitating the search of an effective owner. The reprivatisation mechanisms proposed by the project will allow the business to be restored and stabilized by a private owner who is unable to provide for a permanent and effective business activity, and the social protection of workers is in breach of his obligations. According to the bill's rules, reprivatization is the return to state property and property of privatized property and corporate rights communities in the event of an invalidity or termination of the relevant court-mandated contracts. The project identifies the objectives of reprivatization, objects and entities, the order in which decisions are made, the way, the order of reprivatization, and other issues related to the process. The main purpose of the reprivatisation according to the project is the return of privatized property to state and municipal property in order to restore the State's rights as owner of privatized objects whose conditions have not been met or privatized with a breach of legislation. Reprivatization is carried out by means of forced alienation for the benefit of the State or the territorial community of objects in case. The first is the winding-up by a court of law of contracts for the sale of privatization objects in connection with the failure of the other party to comply with the obligations provided for in the contract. And the second is the recognition, by law, of the order of contracts for the sale of property made in the privatization process that are invalid. State policy in the area of reprivatization will be carried out by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which under article 116 of the Constitution of Ukraine is responsible for the administration of public property. Taking into account the considerable accumulated methodical and practical experience in property reform, the reprivatization function is proposed to be placed on the State Property Fund of Ukraine. The privatization authority, on the basis of the relevant court decision, will decide on the object’s reprivatisation and conduct it in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The reprivatisation of property owned by the territorial communities and privatized by the relevant legislation will be carried out by the relevant authorities of local self-government and will be regulated by the provisions of this law, other acts of reprivatisation. It is necessary to impose a limitation on the right of property owners to which a reprivatisation procedure has been initiated in order to avoid possible abuses on the part of the owner who can make deliberately unfavourable agreements on business property. Subjects subject to reprivatization include entire property complexes of privatized enterprises, the property of structural units of privatized enterprises, separate buildings, buildings, privatized in the form of whole property complexes, shares, stakes, and pies belonging to natural or legal persons owned by households. In accordance with the requirements of the Civil Code, it is planned to reimburse the costs of the State budget, or the corresponding local budget, for the stated purposes and in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The cost of a reprivatisation object will be determined by conducting its independent evaluation according to the government’s approved methodology. When calculating the total cost of the object’s reprivatisation, it takes into account the price of its sale, adjusted by taking into account inflation indexes, wear-offs, and nonreversible assets, its own working capital, and so on. The introduction of the process of reprivatisation on the institutional and legal principles envisaged by the draft law on the return of privatization property to state and municipal property will have a positive impact on Ukraine's economy as a whole, contribute to increasing production volume and improving the quality of goods. I hope that the adoption of this bill will contribute to the improvement of the mechanism for State regulation of property reform processes, the removal of the threat of loss of control by the State over production, which forms the basis for the economy of the State, regulates civil and legal relations regarding the return to state ownership of privatised property and will encourage the owners of privatised enterprises to comply with the terms of the sale contracts. Ladies and gentlemen, please support in the first reading the draft Ukrainian law on return, privatized property to the state and municipal property that has been submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council, and I would like to say that it is very nice that these two laws are being passed together, as we can say. In a package, and a law on reprivatization, there will still be a law on privatization. So these two laws, in my opinion, should work together, should be adopted together, and should work together. This will have an overall positive impact on the economic situation in Ukraine and on the great privatization in Ukraine. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u104	Yes, dear fellows, is there a question? Please sign up, five minutes as agreed. We'll pick on another one. Please point it out on the board. Yes, Rajkov, Democratic Initiative MP, please. Is it?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u105	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u106	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u107	Dear Mikhail Vasiljevic, in the event of reprivatization, how will the issue of debts that former owners may create at this company be addressed? Who will be responsible for these debts?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u108	Thank you so much for asking. Well, first, if a decision is taken by the court, based on a court decision, a decision will be taken by the fund on the object's reprivatisation, it will be made on one side of the assessment of the object, as reprivatisation should be on a costly basis. On the other hand, in case. If the property was incurred by the owner during his management of the company, the property was dissipated and so on, the valuation will be appropriate and the damage that the owner has caused to the enterprise. And then he has to make amends to the state if the property has been dispossessed and so on. And so it would be as if the price of an object that would be reprivatized, for which the state should reimburse the costs, and on the other hand the owner himself should also return some of the funds to the State, and it would be appropriate to say the difference found in the combination of these two amounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u109	True, that is what you think, but the ninth article does not say, it is just a prediction. Please, Plutinski National Deputy, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u110	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear reporter, I'd like to ask you this question if you can answer: is there some sort of planality in privatization when we have to finish it, and is there any planned amount that the state will receive 10 billion dollars in privatization? And how much, if you can do that, how much is it going to do today, and how much more is still to get from privatization? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u111	Thank you very much. Well, first of all, the fiscal target is not the main challenge facing privatization, but the main challenge facing privatization is to find an effective owner who is able to bring the enterprise to a higher level of competitiveness, efficiency and business prospects. As far as privatization is concerned, I want to say that the new privatization programme, which will be reported after this issue, is foreseen for six years. This will be the completion of privatization in Ukraine as a socio-economic, large-scale property reform project that began in the early 1990s and ended six years later. As far as the state is concerned, after this year, I want to say that the plan for the coming of funds from privatization to the budget of 2 billion 100 million dollars a day has been received by the State about a billion dollars, i.e. today's overworked plan, almost half a year, and actually only five months have passed. That is, the overworked plan of coming to the State Budget this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u112	Mikola Yankowski, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u113	Dear Mikhail Vasilevich. There are two points I'd like to make clear. The first is privatization, reprivatization in case of non-compliance with investment commitments. Who will determine the extent to which these commitments have been fulfilled and how other issues should have been met? Because there could be a lot of abuse here. And the second question. Have you not considered reprivatizing the State of such an object, if necessary, with the purchase of these privatized facilities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u114	Thank you so much for asking. First. This bill establishes such a philosophy of reprivatization. That the reprivatization will be carried out only by a court decision. First, or in the event of a contract failure to be executed, a sale by an investor, or a buyer. Or if the court finds it not a real contract to buy and sell. With regard to the aspect of the problem of reprivatization on the grounds of social necessity, this issue was discussed and raised by the State Property Fund, but the opinion of the State Property Fund was not ultimately supported by the Ministry of Justice. If the national MPs make this amendment, we have the right copies, they've been removed from this law, I can tell you, we've developed this spectrum, but it's been deleted.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u115	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Time's up. Sit down, please. The word for the report is given by the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy and Management of National Households, Property, and Investments, Vladimir Josephovich Matthew. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u116	Dear Chairman, distinguished deputies! The Committee on Economic Policy, People's Management, Property and Investment, having considered at its meeting the Cabinet of Ministers draft Ukrainian Law on the return of privatized property to public utilities, decided to recommend that the Supreme Council adopt the bill as a basis. The bill proposes to extend the legal, economic and institutional framework for the return of privatized property to public and utility property. Property of corporate rights of inefficient enterprises acquired by the owner through privatization. According to the project, the return of privatized property to public property, i.e. reprivatization, is carried out by means of forced alienation in favour of the State by decision of the court for non-compliance by another country with the obligations under the treaty and forcible alienation for the benefit of the State of the object in the event that contracts for the sale of property entered into during the privatization process are declared null and void. The cost of the privatization facility is determined by carrying out its independent evaluation in accordance with the methodology proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers. The Public Property Fund, its regional offices, is responsible for the implementation of the relevant reprivatization procedures. Reprivatization-related costs shall be reimbursed from the State budget or from the corresponding local budget provided for those purposes. The objectives for the return of public property are set out in the State budget for the year in question and the funds for the return of public property in the corresponding local budget. In the view of the Committee, the adoption of the draft creates a condition for resolving the problems of relations in the area of the restoration of property rights of the State as owner. Of course, the bill has been drafted without fault. These shortcomings are noted in the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is distributed to the deputies. We believe that these shortcomings can be addressed during the preparatory period for second reading. The Committee on Economic Policy and Management of Property and Investments therefore invites the Supreme Council to adopt the draft law on the return of privatized property to public utilities as a basis of the Cabinet of Ministers. Report completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u117	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you have any questions? Please, let's sign up then. On the board, please. Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u118	Deputy Bogdan Kostinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u119	Bogdan Costinjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u120	The Ukrainian People's Movement, Our Ukraine, Bogdan Kostinyuk. Dear reporter! I actually wanted to ask the head of the fund, do you know if there's already a list of enterprises that are going to be reprivatized somewhere? Are these enterprises known, at least, for the first time? Why do I ask? Because the next question of today is the State Privatization Program just predicts that the most profitable complexes are going to be privatized. So will it not seem that those who make the profits privatize and those who do the damage go back to the state? And the second question. How to make it impossible, as you can see, when, for example, the company was purchased for half a free and it would be bought at a real price through reprivatization. Do you have any idea what the collar might be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u121	On the first issue of a list of enterprises that are or are likely to be renationalized. Of course not, and it is not intended. Opinions here, I think we're going to have a very long time. In the case of re-representation or alienation in favour of the State of previously privatized property, this will take place in exceptional cases and only by decision of the court. That's the first one. Although I do have some moods related to your second question. I still cannot accept what we have sold, for example, to the same Dutch firm for 27.3 million grivens, and the return of this property, and the cost of only one dry dock over $100 million, and the return of such property to the State will certainly be no more than that of the Dutch firm. I find it totally inappropriate and foolish to sell the Russian aluminum of the Nikolaev clay plant, which brought 70 million dollars a year to the state and sold only 100 million dollars a government stock package. It may be reprovatable, but on very different grounds. That is, there are those sentiments that we can then implement in the form of a list of enterprises, and this list of enterprises will certainly be agreed here in the Supreme Council. With regard to the kind of trade that can be viewed as speculation. State property, I think that together with you and the Supreme Council we will simply not allow this to be a speculation on the sale and reprivatization of public property.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u122	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u123	Thank you. Dear reporter, of course I fully support the previous question, and I'm going to specify again. Look, we now think that the state is a race. And I think that's what it is: robbed and, let's say, privatized. Can we return by means of this proposed law on the return of privatized property to state and municipal property to return to the people what they took for nothing? The last envelope is Poltava, Poltavanaftogas. A million dollars. For a million dollars, it's either being privatized or being privatized. That's 1 percent of what she can make when she's successfully used. The same is true of Ukradprom. I just want you to bring me and all the people here, and first of all the people who understand that the situation in the country is now uncontrollable and irreversible. Is this law going to bring back the quality changes that are necessary, or is it going to be another piece of work to say that the state is doing something but there is nothing left to save?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u124	This law provides an instrument. This law provides an opportunity, and as such an instrument, such as this. As an opportunity to take advantage of this, it will depend on how the Government, how we as the Supreme Council will operate and how we will manage it. And the fact that we have cases of looting, mass looting, public property or people's property, the good of the people, there are no questions. Here they asked how many States had eventually received from the privatization of public property. This is a matter of concern. A lot, let's just say, a hundred times less than the ones who acquired that property. Yeah. That's why. But this law does not give the full return of State property, the return of the previously privatized property of the State. This law does not impose such a task. This is the subject of a completely different law, which can be called nationalization and so on and so forth, but not privatization, the non-refoulement of privatized property into public or communal property, i.e. that is not the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u125	Sergey Matvienkov, faction, European Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u126	Thank you. Matvienkov, "European Choice", Mariupol. Dear Vladimir Yosifovich, let us say this, I understand this legislation. And here's the mechanism? After all, whoever's suing once. That's why he's suing two. Provided that the terms of the contract are written by the Fund itself. It defines the conditions and criteria under which the enterprise is being sold today. And third. Is there anyone today who is preventing the termination of a contract that is not being implemented, provided that this contract is not implemented, between the Property Fund and the buyer? And the fourth. How long has such privatization treaties been terminated in this period, provided these treaties have not been implemented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u127	I can't answer the last question. With regard to the first question of yours, you have indeed read very carefully the conclusions of the draft Ukrainian law, which gave rise to the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, there is that point. I think it'll be removed. It's not really specified, but who's really going to come forward with the lawsuit. This can be taken into account in the preparatory process for second reading. I think that's going to be the subject of a very big dispute here on the Supreme Council, because there's going to be a lot of those who want to make a statement here, on the one hand, and on the other, very little. Because these claims will come in, well, they'll introduce, create a conflict situation with, let's say, with the oligarchs, with the very rich structures, and not want to fight with them, including the privatized enterprises that we've talked about before.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u128	Vladimir Josephovich, thank you. Time's up. Let's move on to the discussion, we've agreed on 10 minutes. Yuri Carmazin, please. Next one's gonna be Nadrag. List the names of the national MPs on the board.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u129	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear national MPs, our people of Ukraine are suffering a lot, the situation is that the absence of this law is very bad. But the adoption of the law as proposed by Viktor Yanukovic is also very bad. Because it's a good idea, it's a good idea, it's a bad idea, it's a good idea, it's a good idea, it's a good idea. We're told, I'm talking about the law itself, 15 little articles that are completely semi-written -- it's on behalf of the Ukrainian government, which has a ministry called justice, which has been increased by 600 people just this year. Mr. Lavrinovich, you have an increase of 600! What, you couldn't help with the law on Yanukovich's reprivatization, prepare the law normal?Oh, my God! Couldn't the holding fund do that?Oh, my God! Well, look what you're writing here. "Article 14. Responsible for violating the legislation on reprivatization. Criminal, administrative, disciplinary, civil and legal liability according to legislation is the offence of violating legislation." What's the load? Zero. Part two: “The officials of the public bodies of privatization and other bodies, as there are signs of crime related to the offence, are criminally liable according to the legislation.” Loads? Zero. And it's all over the law. So, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you: Are the entities involved in the return of the privatized property or are they obliged to be the prosecutor, the Attorney General and his attorneys? But you have to be! Not only can he do it, but he must do it! It's in the interests of the state to work. We have to write this down. And the subject may be a citizen who feels that his rights have been violated? A citizen, according to the Constitution of Ukraine? It's got to be! And he can initiate! And no one will ever forbid it. In this country, the Constitution will never be repealed. As it is today, respected national Democrats say they need a constitutional assembly. To replace you people's deputies! Today, a statement was made from this rostrum. And no one knew what was planned! The Cossack is exiled! It is planned to replace you, the Supreme Council, with a constitutional assembly. And paid for, it's written on very good paper. Now let's move on. Should this law be passed, even worthless, or worthless? I think we should. You have to because there's a concept, a concept that everything that's being wrongly privatized has to be returned. And this concept has to be supported, and then it's all there, and we're already going to write it down and we're going to write it right. There should also be buildings of unfinished construction, a well - preserved, accommodating land that is. Everything here has to be in the law. There's nothing here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u130	Thank you. Basil Nadrag, please. Get ready for Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u131	Dear Vassili, People's Choice, Lugansk Region. Dear colleagues, I would like to begin by drawing your attention to the following things. We live in a State where there is a law on the privatization of public property, on the privatization of small public enterprises or small privatization, on the specificities of the privatization of property in the agro-industrial complex, on the specificities of the privatization of construction facilities. And today we are considering with you a law that is diametrically opposite in its direction, a law that I would call that, and it's called, reprivatization. So I think that there must be such a law, conceptually, because at the moment we just said nate, and never tried to say what conditions it should go back. Now, here are the mechanisms or issues that arise by reading this law. First. Disturbing is the following thing: will the money to recover privatized property come from public or local budgets? No questions asked. But on the other hand, the thought has already sounded here, and I can't help but repeat it, the thought of how our businesses privatized it? We know a lot of examples with you when you've privatized debt, debt generated by barter, otherwise, and everything else. I mean, in fact, it's not always about money that we call things our names. And the question is, in reprivatizing, in an expert evaluation, we're taking out living money from the budget, not made up, not meant otherwise, but literally living money. So here, I think, there is an opportunity and a stronger need to write out the reparation mechanism itself precisely as a financial element on this subject, because the abuse, in my view, if they are not provided by law and there is no appropriate prohibition, penalty, liability for the subject, there will be a desire to play and the price of the object, there will be a desire to go to the meeting or vice versa. Therefore, I think that when we speak of an incapacitated owner depriving himself of his property, the risks he has taken in buying this enterprise should be expressed in a concrete manner. First, he should never receive more than he invested in the privatization of the enterprise. Second of all, he's got to get no more than he invested. Often, while the enterprise was owned for several years, the main funds were used, transport and mass of other items. And so I think that the section in which the methodology is written is about how much to repay to a failed owner, and I think that we should literally write in all the cost-assessment talks and everything else, but not more than 50 per cent of the purchase price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u132	Taras Cranville, faction of our Ukraine, prepare for Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u133	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! As they say, there is a path to hell with good intentions. The law, for me, it's not just weak, it's totally bad, it's totally unacceptable. One of the reasons that gives me the right to speak is that it makes even today’s legal solution worse. If today's specifically unfulfilled terms of the privatisation treaty, which have not yet been implemented, are direct violations in the process of preparing documents for privatization, this can all be decided today in the trial. As far as I'm concerned, the law is designed, in fact, to confuse the situation and open up against the background that there are possibilities for direct, completely direct financial abuse. I think that's what this law is all about. In it, the first reporter here was not entirely sincere, there is nothing about the effective management he spoke of. There are only points related to violations of legal standards in the course of privatization and non-execution of direct contracts. Believe me, if you're privatizing, or if you're doing these deals, or if you're doing them in a way that's just to do it formally, and you're going to prepare the enterprise gradually for bankruptcy there or other purposes and retraining and so on, you can have it as a matter of fact. Because this law, as such, will not perform its function at all. A very poorly written financial side, as it does to me, really opens up all possible and impossible ways to abuse in the financial sphere in this regard. There is no distribution of property rights between government authorities and local authorities. It's said that this is going to be, in the end, we understand very well how it's going to be. It's going to be the fact that everything that goes more leniently, let's say somewhere in the government, in the local self-government, will go into what's more harmful. And a whole bunch of other things that just question whether even this law should really be discussed. What is the norm that a decision is taken by a public authority on the basis of a judgment of a court. A public authority can enforce a court’s decision, not after a court’s decision to make its own decisions. The whole series of other issues absolutely confronts us with the fact that this law, as for me, can only be rejected and cannot even be referred to as the first reading. The law really makes the legislative security in that area worse, it doesn't bring anything new, and obviously we're once again faced with the fact that the great regret that Kabin is usually very formal and superficially suited to the drafting of the bill, and it's certainly in this field that we're going to normalize, normally, the deputy corps itself. Because, after all, the law will have to regulate such things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u134	Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u135	Dear colleagues! Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. Privatization in Ukraine is not effective, scandalous and criminal. She has done great damage to Ukraine’s national interests. I have to admit it as an apologist and a privatisation lawyer. But the process was going on, it was impossible to stop it, and we need to think about how to improve it. Where there is a law on privatization, there must be a law on reprivatization. The dialectic must work, the unity of the opposite should also be in legislative activity. That's why the idea of this law needs to be supported, in my opinion. I'm just surprised why we're doing this so late. It's like we did 10 years ago and we wrote out normal mechanisms, and I think the economic situation would be better. Well, at least now there are proposals: to enact a law on the return of privatized property to state and municipal property. At the level of ideas and at the level of concept you can support. But at the level of specific proposals and specific novelties that exist in this law, doubts can be expressed and proposals made. First of all, what we're talking about. The point is that privatization took place at no cost, and now debt reprivatization will take place. The question is, Where did I get the money that my colleagues were talking about? That's absolutely the right question. Costs are offered to be recovered from the State Budget. But should the owner be responsible for ineffective management? He's supposed to. And that should be in the law, that's his problem, why the business is in such a difficult state. And he's usually guilty. And it's the inefficient management of this company. Therefore, he needs to be held accountable. And let him look for funds. If you're going to get out of the budget, there's only a small amount. There is also a need to address the issue of the criteria for return and what are the criteria for return. And this has to be written out clearly. And what objects will be returned to state and municipal property. And you also have to clearly write out the mechanism, how it's going to be done, and the conditions under which it's going to be done. And the main question is the question of responsibility. Clearly write out the mechanism of responsibility for carrying out this process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u136	Thank you. Consideration of the draft Law on the return of privatized property to state and municipal property has been completed. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. For reasons, please, Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u137	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I thank you for your word. What would I like? Notice that the procedure is short-circuited, it's really good, but I think it's unfair. First. Live, let's say, from our faction of all things, little has been written down, and no one has been given a word. I think it would be appropriate if you gave the floor to a reduced procedure, but you included those parties and blocks that joined the Supreme Council. That'd be good. And so four men came forward. Well, that's a bill discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u138	Dear colleagues! We discussed it for 45 minutes, it's not a shortened procedure. We will have a brief procedure when we consider the Law on the State Privatisation Programme. So it's... it's... Dear National Deputies! Please, calm down. Sourma, please, with a motive. Now there will be a question of another law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u139	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] First of all, we need to pay attention to incorrect use, both in the bill being analysed and in many other Ukrainian legislation, the notion of "reprivatisation". In a literal translation, reprivatization means reprivatisation. According to the world’s popular reprivatization approaches, the return to private property is understood as a result of the prior nationalization, redemption, or expropriation of private property. So reprivatization is a process that is opposed to the return of privatized property to state and municipal property. It's not about the terms, it's about the fact that the Supreme Council is currently looking at a project on nationalization or property degradation. As a result, we believe that the bill should be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u140	Semenyuk, please, with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u141	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I want to go through with it. In fact, we have to look, at least from the committees to give to those who are profiled, because I'm written practically by the committee, by the committee, and I can't speak. That's the first one. The other one. Dear colleagues! I am particularly approached by representatives of the majority and minorities with regard to the order of privatization. If we want to take a step forward and see that our businesses are running, giving jobs, let's go in principle. This bill is submitted on behalf of the President. Prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers. Agreed with all ministries and departments. The bill is democratic, let's if there's a point, sit down, work it out, all the way back to the first reading, but we have to move, because there's a lot of references to the commission, and there's a lot of order in the matter of privatization. Today, England, France, the United States, Canada has the law both after privatization, and after reprivatization, and nationalization, and it's not a store. And we're afraid of something. In fact, they stole it, let them return. Illegally done, let them return. According to the court's ruling and the proper regulatory base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u142	Thank you. A draft law on the State Privatisation Programme is being announced for consideration. The committee proposes such a mechanism of consideration. Reporter Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov - up to 7 minutes. Five minutes - answers to questions. Five minutes -- for the report, for the answers to the questions and for the discussion of this question -- 20 minutes. No objections? And then how would I ask your permission -- one minute -- I'd ask your permission to work until 14:15 and finish this consideration. Thank you. Please, Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u143	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! For the consideration of the Supreme Council, a draft Ukrainian law on the State Privatisation Program is presented, which was developed in accordance with article 4 of the Ukrainian Act on Privatisation of State Property. The proposed draft law introduced the State Privatisation Programme, which defines the task of implementing the ownership strategy for the period 2003-2008 in a package of changes to valid legislative acts. The State Privatisation Programme 2003-2008 identifies new approaches to further improving the privatization process, taking into account the strategy and ideology of the current-stage property reform course, based on the tasks outlined by the President of Ukraine in his letter to the Supreme Council "European Choice". The program takes into account the experience of previous years and the problems accumulated in the process of reforming state ownership. Some of them have created serious risks for the national economy, including the proliferation of methods of illegal shadow privatization beyond privatization schemes, the unprepared state-owned sector regulation systems of monopolies, primarily natural monopolies, the inefficient state ownership management system, the lack of rational state-owned and private property ratios, etc. In order to address these problems in the process of State ownership reform, the privatization programme has changed its approach dramatically. The main goal of privatization in 2003-2008 is to increase socio-economic efficiency through the completion of large-scale privatization as a special socio-economic property reform project, which resulted in the creation of an efficient private and public sectors of the economy, a competitive environment as a condition for economic growth, the well-being of the population to adapt the economy of Ukraine to the processes of globalisation of the world economy. The program creates a clear system-wide distribution of responsibilities between the executive authorities and their responsibility for the implementation and performance of the program. The programme foresees rules to increase the responsibility of authorities authorized to manage state property for pre-privatization measures. The program provides for public procedures for making appropriate decisions to secure shares in state-owned companies that meet world standards. Public protection of the fastener provides for a review of the proposal of an authority authorized to manage state property in an order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a decision to secure it is made by the government on the basis of the findings of the State Property Fund. In order to expand the range of potential buyers and compromise in the process of developing the program, the concept of "industrial investor" is excluded from the project. I repeat, the term "industry investor" has been deleted. Special attention has been given to the classifications and attempts to privatize “H” objects, and the ways and manner in which such objects are privatized are aimed at increasing the effectiveness of individual privatization, preventing risks from arising in the privatization of enterprises. Ensure acceleration of privatization, the economy of time and the cost of selling state property. The individual approach to privatizing the group’s objects involves improving the work of potential buyers, financial analysis of enterprises, restructuring, the use of special tools in the course of trade, namely the application of a new way of selling, limited-pretention trade. Restricted trading is a competitive way of selling with potential buyers invited by the fund, which should meet not only the qualifications requirements but also the additional conditions. In selecting the bidders, the fund will use all the weights to obtain information on the capacity of potential buyers, their integrity, and their real intentions, and their list will be subject to the mandatory approval of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The use of limited-participation trade is reserved only for unique enterprises, I reiterate, only for unique enterprises, for sale, which risks are unacceptable. Such a mechanism is used by many Western European countries. The way in which H-group objects are sold in limited-participating trade ensures that the most attractive enterprises are not privatized, that unconvincing buyers make it impossible to carry out shadow privatizations allow for the protection of the interests of the State in the privatization process of all enterprises, and that national security needs are taken into account. The strategy for further reforming public property includes synchronizing the privatization process into the transformation of state-owned monopolies systems, the creation of a system of state ownership management in the national economy. One of the key tasks of the Fund in the coming years, in line with the project of the programme, will be the successive transformation of the public sector, the gradual reform of national-owned complexes, with a view to increasing the impact of privatization on the investment and innovation development of the economy and the prevention of possible negative consequences in the transition to reform and ownership of natural monopolies and industries, which are of particular importance to the economy and security of the State, the strategy of the privatisation process foresees the progressive preparation for the privatization of particularly important public-owned complexes through the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for sub-programmes of their market transformation. The implementation mechanism of the program places shadow privatization on the market, the artificially devalued state property and its alienation under non-privatization procedures, among which the most common were the accounts with high-value state-owned creditors. The draft law introduces rules for the implementation of state property under transparent privatization procedures. Another thesis. The programme envisages a change in the way in which the funds received from the privatization of state property are used, and the costs derived from the sale of government property are included in the State budget. At least 25 percent of the cost of privatizing strategic objects is proposed to finance strategic sectors, strategic enterprises, that is to say, to keep these funds running for the future, tomorrow. The time has been spent, I, honourable national MPs, ask you to support the proposed draft law on the State Privatization Programme in the first reading. We're those remarks, those proposals that we're now facing with factions, and we're going to take into account the second reading procedure and these two laws -- both the privatization law and the reprivatization law, they need to be adopted in a package, and then, in fact, the effectiveness of implementing these laws is going to be in life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u144	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Report completed. Is there a question for the reporter? Please sign up. The word is made up of the people's deputies, MacKeenko, the regions of Ukraine. Prepare Semenyuk. Please. Lighten up. Explain the list. Valentina Petrovna, please Semenjuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u145	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Mikhaylo Vasilovich, tell me, where do you see the role of the State Property Fund in the adoption of the program, the more loyal sub-programme of the Cabinet of Ministers, because today there is no bill on the State Property Fund, in the role of statisticians or in the role of performers? That's the first question. The other one. We recently met at the Cabinet of Ministers meeting and followed a trend that took credit for privatization and did not return. Have you already received such information so that you can say today, how much of the privatisation loans have been taken, guaranteed by the government, and how much has been recovered? And the third question. Are there economic security calculations in part that the State has in its possession objects that would be vital to the performance of the tasks of the state institutions? Are there such economic calculations, or are they presented to this program today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u146	Thank you. What concerns the first question about the development of sub-programmes for the reform of the national community. Indeed, this programme has established the thesis that, over the year since the adoption of the programme, appropriate inter-ministerial groups, including representatives of the State Property Fund, and representatives of the Ministry of the Economy, ministries of the economy, and these inter-ministerial groups have developed a programme to reform these national economic complexes so that we can systematically approach the market transformation of these complexes, not turn off any separate enterprise when the fund turns off privatization, and the ministry leaves it behind, motivated by national interests and for public influence, and comprehensively examine these industries, these complexes, they have looked, they have broken down businesses, they will be executed, they will be executed, they will be corporateized, and where an investor will be established, and they will be privatized. And so the reform is being carried out to bring out the reformed national farm complex. The Ministry's complex had an impact, and the Ministry had the opportunity to pursue state policy. And from the point of view of whether or not these reform programmes are intended to approve them in government or separately to approve them in separate laws, in my opinion, if these are inter-ministerial groups that will include representatives of various ministries, including this ministry or this national economic complex, perhaps these issues can be considered and approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. But the MP can decide differently. From the point of view of how many loans were taken, how many loans were received by enterprises, by different enterprises, I'd like to say that it wasn't only state-owned enterprises that were guaranteed by the government. Well, I had this information that only under the government's guarantee was loans taken, and I'm stressing again, it's not just state-owned enterprises, but there are, so to speak, non-state enterprises, about one billion dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u147	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Makinko, National Deputy, Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u148	Please give the floor to Matthew's Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u149	Turn on Matvienkov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u150	Matvienkov, 55th District, European Choice. Dear Mikhail Vasiljevic, I have one question for you, but it's a clear question: privatization of Krukrma, an opinion on this matter of the Property Fund. How do you plan to make this deal? I'm the only one I'm gonna ask right now. You don't have to say what the commission is doing, because the commission, I am a member of the commission, is to this day, to some extent in your direction. I mean, I would like to hear the opinion of the Property Fund on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u151	I have already heard from this rostrum the position of the fund on the privatization of Krudprom and other major giant sites. And I said that the privatization of such unique facilities required political support from the Vekhovna Council. Political support is easier to obtain by adopting a specific law. That is why the position has not changed. I think it is the right decision that the privatization of Krudprom will go under a separate law. To date, there has been a bill by the people's MP, Movcana, which has also been discussed in the Committees of the Supreme Council, which has also been discussed in this group. Therefore, the interdepartmental group that is finalizing the bill had adopted the bill as a basis for the bill of the People's Deputy and reasonable proposals and additions to the bill. And such a bill will be sent to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u152	The word is Basil Nadrag. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u153	Question. Dear Mikhail Vasiljevic, one of the components of any privatization, including privatization programmes, is the funding that will come from different levels of budget: public, local and beyond. I have a question. In this programme, financial planning is presented only for the current year, and the remaining five years of financial analysis are not available, we do not know where we are going, and what do we get? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u154	I'm explaining what this has to do with anything. This year, there are indeed 2 billion 100 in the budget. This figure is duplicated in the privatization programme. I told you from the rostrum that we'd already put a billion in the budget. Almost half a year, i.e. overrun five months. Why didn't we look further, for 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007? The fact is that one of the key elements of the privatization programme itself is the approval of eight sub-programmes for the reform of the population complexes. It is therefore difficult to predict and predict when we approach the formation of these population-based complexes, and when we decompose enterprises there how many enterprises, based on the interests of the State, based on the needs of the industry, based on the need for State influence on the development of the industry, on the policy side, it will remain, as executed, as corporately as it will be, to what extent it will be exposed to privatization. So there was a very high probability of error. In view of this, it may be that, when we adopt the plans for the reform of the market transformation of the eight giant folk-economy complex in the course of the year, even adjustments can be made, and these figures can be unrealistic, and it is difficult even to look outside this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u155	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. The report, discussions, and questions are closed. I request a report from the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy and Management of National Households, Property and Investments, Matthew Vladimir Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u156	Dear Supreme Council! The Committee on Economic Policy, People's Management, Property and Investment, having considered the Cabinet of Ministers draft Ukrainian Law on the State Privatization Programme, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the decision to return the project to the Government for finalization and second reading. Briefly on the bill. The draft law is intended: to approve the State Privatization Programme, which sets out the tasks of implementing the ownership strategy and related activities for the implementation of the programme in 2003-2008; to define the main objectives, priorities, tasks and means of privatizing public property, property belonging to the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the exclusion of communal property of a group of facilities to be privatized; to define the tasks of privatization of public property and the proceeds of privatization into the State budget of Ukraine in 2003; and to amend the law of Ukraine, which aims to further improve the law on the exclusion of public property of its evaluation, taking into account the provisions of the draft State Privatization Programme for subsequent years. Without focusing separately on the provisions of the bill, which they had submitted to the Chairman of the Statehood Fund, I would like to refer to the main comments made by the members of the People's Committee. Our committee. Committee on Transport and Construction, Committee on Science and Education, Other People's Deputies. It should be noted that the need for transparency in the disintegration processes to be as open as possible has been repeatedly emphasized by the people's representatives of all the conventions. However, both the programme and the legislative changes resulting from it are intended to introduce such a method of sale as a limited-participating tender. Only potential buyers invited by the Fund to participate in such tenders, whose list will be agreed with the Cabinet of Ministers. In addition, these tenders will offer to sell mono-polistic enterprises that are strategically important to the economy and security of the enterprise State. Such limited participation of buyers would reduce the number of participants in the competition and negatively affect not only the initial price of the sale of privatization facilities but also the receipt of funds from privatization into the public budget. It should be noted, however, that it was the sale of strategic enterprises that somehow ensured the main revenue to the State budget from privatization in previous years. The programme introduces provisions for the privatization of important national economic complexes such as defence, aviation, mining, railway, shipbuilding, electricity, oil and gas, NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, State Shareholder of Ukrainian Bread. However, the project expects that the preparation of these privatization packages, as well as their privatization itself, will be carried out in accordance with individual subprogrammes to be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The adoption of such rules would result in a weakening of parliamentary control over the privatization process and would result in the privatization regulatory centre being transferred from the scope of legislation to legal regulations, such as the Cabinet of Ministers' regulations and regulations. The bill is proposed to privatize the assets of the Crucifixors. That is, to privatize so that only railways, engineering facilities, contact network, signalling devices, telecommunications, forest protection, platforms, buildings related to railway infrastructure remain in public ownership. Thus, subject to the implementation of this concept on rail transport, several business actors will operate: the State, which will be followed by railways and engineering infrastructure, and non-State owners, who will carry passengers and goods. It is unlikely that such an artificial doubling of the structure of the premises is appropriate. Moreover, the destruction of the entire property of the railway complex will lead to a deterioration in the safety of the rail transport of passengers and goods, and will destroy the control system for the safe operation of railway vehicles. The Committee also does not see sufficient grounds to privatize the property complexes of public enterprises that produce alcohol, wine and liqueur products. We note that the privatization of these enterprises will only result in a one-time public budget, and their well-organized work will be able to complete it on a continuous basis. I do not support the provision that research and development enterprises fall within the category of facilities to be privatized. It is not directly related to the State Privatization Programme, in our view and the view of the Committee on Science and Education, to the provision of a bill that will be granted authorization to reclassify pre-school schools that do not operate for more than three years or are in an emergency situation. Given that, in most cases, the budget for the renovation of these facilities is insufficient, the so-called emergency situation of Ukraine may leave virtually no children's education facilities. Finally, it should be noted that the draft State Privatization Programme provides for a shift to large-scale and total privatization in systemic areas, including natural monopolies. It proposes to privatize everything and faster without any economic justification. Our Committee believes that the economic policy of the State should be aimed at creating an optimally balanced and efficient public and non-State sectors of the economy in Ukraine. The parties to the further property reform process should be both privatization and return of property to public and utility property. The responsibility of owners for the ineffective use of State property and the transfer of enterprises to bankruptcy has been increased. The Committee on Economic Policy therefore proposes that the Government's draft law on the State privatization programme be reinstated and re-readed. The Committee provided the relevant draft regulation. Report completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u157	Thank you, dear fellows. Questions? Please sign up for the questions. On the board, please. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u158	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear reporter, I completely agree with you, with your overall assessment, with the bottom line, that everything will be sold, everything will be quick. Please tell me if you don't have the confidence that there was some kind of program that wasn't being prepared at the holding facility, I don't believe that Chechetov or Bondar could have prepared this program, well, I don't believe it. I do believe in the integrity of people. And your attitude toward what is proposed to privatize the alcohol industry, which is proposed to actually privatize the defence complex, shipbuilding and so on and so forth? In fact, this program is calculated for one year. Your impression? Maybe I'm wrong, please tell me, as an expert?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u159	In general, I am speaking from the Committee and on the Committee, we have not considered this question as to what impressions we have. Personal opinion, as you can see, I was present at the National Bank for the discussion of this programme, and I was present here on the round table at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I actually know who's behind this program, and I can guess what money is being paid for developing this program, and I understand that this is government money paid, someone is pursuing their interests. Personally, this is not the opinion of the committee, my opinion that this programme is anti-State, at all anti-State. Nor is it aimed at strengthening the State, unfortunately, of our Ukrainian State. As a result, we also stood by the Committee, and the Committee's opinion was almost unanimous that it would be almost unanimous to return the programme to its finalization, for substantial refinement. Who's there? It's already there. If an investigation is carried out, then the cards will be in the hands of the person conducting the investigation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u160	Yes, Basil Gavriluk, People's Landing Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u161	The distinguished rapporteur, please tell us, after this privatization programme, if it is implemented, that there will be at least one enterprise strategic for Ukraine, not privatized, or that we all literally want to realize, sell, for a very short period of time, because the unarmed eye shows that the programme is not only imperfect, you have absolutely said, in my opinion, it is anti-State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u162	Thus, if this law is adopted and the programme is implemented, we will have virtually no State enterprise left. There is no State in a world without State property. There is no State in the world that does not have executed enterprises. We might be able to do something that's really not going to be left. The programme also provides for the privatization of enterprises, which were not provided for by the privatization law, including weapons, weapons and so on and so forth. That is, the entire complex, including the defence complex, the airline, the building is privatized. I have to tell you, to some extent, this program of what's already going on. Of the nine largest shipbuilding plants in Ukraine, one remained a state-owned enterprise. No, I think two remained a public enterprise, the rest being privatized in one way or another. The only shipbuilding plant on the Euro-Asian continent, the Black Sea Shipbuilding Plant, which is capable of building fully aircraft carriers, is now being sold in parts, although it was on the list of enterprises not to be privatized, but under a special privatization programme it is now being sold and today there are conflicts between public structures and private structures. There has already been a violation of the principle of property, i.e. there is no way for the owner to own it. And today, for this reason, the director of this enterprise must simply be dismissed from the plant because he violates the basic laws on the market economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u163	Yes, Basil Nadrag, please, People's Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u164	Vladimir Yosifovich, I have heard your assessment of the railway privatisation programme. I am a majority leader, and there are many such concerns and individual and group statements from railways and treatments, and they even refer to the experience of the royal Russia, where the railway has always remained public. So I would like to say not only a general assessment, but also a vision of the situation further, because what you have estimated is understandable, but if we also have rail transport going away, so to speak, to private property, and from security to efficiency, there will be questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u165	You know, I'm grateful to the Royal Government for at least building railways so intensively that today we're still railways, well, there's not only rails and bars, but also docks and barracks, and so on, and the pace of construction of railways in royal Russia. . Of course, yes, it is a matter of another bill that we will consider with you when we approach October. The king's government. At the time, railways were built more intensively than the Soviet authorities, frankly, even in recent times when the bank was being built. What? At the time, the Royal Government of the State understood the importance of State ownership of railways. What private railways are like is an example of Argentina, where the five widths of the railway, five widths, I am the witness, i.e. the size of the railway. Therefore, I do not think that we should be allowed to privatize the railway in any way at all, although today the signs of privatization are on the face, but, for example, the bed in Kiev Kharkiv, on the fast train 63, 64 is 8.50. The same bed in the passenger train's bedroom is worth 10 bracelets.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u166	Thank you. Time's up. Have a seat, please. Valentina Petrovna Seminouk. Head of the Special Commission of the Supreme Council on Privatization, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u167	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters. Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. In accordance with the Budget Code and the Supreme Council Rules, draft laws submitted for consideration should have clear economic accounts. Is this standard fulfilled? No, it's not. As the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council pointed out on matters of privatization in the State Property Fund report, and the same mistake is repeated at parliamentary hearings today. Privatization has been initiated and continues in the absence of a strategic development programme for the State, strategic reconstruction plans, neither criteria nor systemic approaches regarding the adequacy of privatization have been defined, particularly those enterprises that are strategically important for the economy and security of the State. The potential consequences of such privatization are not predicted. There is no proportional distribution of ownership to state and non-state property, as well as a marginal share of government property, as an economic basis for the State to secure its sovereign powers and functions below which there is a threat to economic security. That's the first one. It's different. The draft programme does not provide for the legislative provision of this programme, but only one paragraph states that the State Property Fund, together with interested central executives, develops draft laws and other legal acts, namely, in the area of sub-programmes: defence, aviation, industrial, railway, shipbuilding, electricity, oil and alcohol. Most importantly, this will be done not on the basis of laws, but by decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers. In addition, it is proposed to increase the duration of the privatization programme and to establish that the programme is approved once every six years. And that means no economic forecasting coming from privatization to budget. And if that standard is accepted like that. So if there's any parliamentary control, there's no need to speak at all, because it's all going to be based on sub-legal acts. In this regard, it should be added that this rule reminds me of an analogy of the special powers given to the Cabinet of Ministers in 1992, when regulations were issued that had the power of laws. That was the beginning of the sale of government property through a variety of trust councils, or retail sales. And the norm mentioned in paragraph 186 of the draft program is a rule that provides for sale, only in general. So from one standard we're going to another. On the committee, we also examined in detail the amendments to the Property Privatization Act, which envisions a reduction in the number of sites that are not subject to privatization, such as spirit, airline, railway, as discussed here by representatives and even representatives of the majority. So allowing for such a change means without any real calculations losing economic weight in the state at all. The Special Supervisory Board at its meetings and at the round table and at parliamentary hearings made its observations clear, but unfortunately, the Cabinet of Ministers, apart from one proposal to register state property, did not take into account anything. It is unfortunate that today it is even proposed to amend the Evaluation and Evaluation Act, which reduces the cost of objects. Land laws are being violated, preschool education laws are being violated, and social facilities are being privatized. And that's what's important. This section does not link the relevant rule with the law on transfer from state property to the utility. One more thing to add is that today we're being followed by the Special Monitoring Commission and, literally, I've been sitting for a few days at the Cabinet of Ministers. During the special powers granted during the period of the so - called constitutional contract, the Cabinet of Ministers issued direct guarantees for obtaining loans during privatization. And the main thing is that no one is returning these loans today. I mean, citizens' money is being privatized today, loans are not coming back, and from the previous budget even the Cabinet of Ministers quoted Mr. Azarov as saying this, the funds are being deducted from the budget. Therefore, first of all, such a proposal for a systemless privatization programme, without taking into account the comments made by the special control committee, which were made especially at parliamentary hearings, in those recommendations that are proposed and in the context of the adoption of the report of the State Property Fund, should be taken into account and should not be made with such a document in the session room. That is why we support the Economic Policy Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u168	Thank you, Valentina Petrovna. Let's move on to the discussion. What are the names of the national deputies who have signed up for the discussion? Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please. Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u169	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Honorable Multitude Ukrainian People! If Shakespeare had read this so-called privatization program, he would have cried because he then said, "Don't lead the sadder in the world than the story of Romeo and Juliet." And I'll tell you that there's no such thing as a sad story today than this project called the State Privatization Program. Why? Because it's not state, and I agree with the reporter Matthews, it's totally anti-state. I don't believe it was developed in the Holding Foundation, I don't believe that Chechetov and Bondar could do it, I don't believe it, I stress that because it's a solid offensive to the interests of all Ukrainian citizens, it's an offensive to the interests of parliament, it's a disqualification of parliamentary powers, a consistent and absolutely sudden and cynical one. Let's see who's responsible. The program was signed by Viktor Janukovic, Prime Minister of Ukraine. How far does this program go? It says it's six years old. In fact, this program is planned for 1 year. Stealing for the presidential election and all! Someone else's kids are going to get away. Now for the specific items of the program. First. It is not in conformity with the law that exists on privatization of state property. It was to be presented before the State Budget. Next. You're counting and you're writing six years. Who gave you that right? It's only for three years. Who gave us the right? The next MPs will come, they'll fix it if it's for three years. What if we write six? Who's gonna fix it? But there'll be nothing left to fix, boys. Are you kidding me? And you represent here and today in this way. Next. You're going to privatize the property complexes of state-owned companies that produce alcohol, wine and liquor products with one moss to give it all away. Even today, the Donies have gone all the way west and south! It's everywhere! Where do you think you're going? I'm calling you, stop. Look what's happening in this complex right now. All the time, people from Central Ukraine say, "Stop the Donkeys!" How much longer can we do this? And you're allowing it to continue today. Instead of constantly filling in the budget, we want to sell everything in one moment. Next. You want to cancel the moratorium on the enforcement of state property. What's that? The subject of this law? No, not an object. Especially chapter 12. Market transformation of privatization of particularly important folk-based complexes. A defense complex. It's airtight. It's very impressive. You've been selling it for a long time. A railway complex. Shipbuilding. Energy complex. And then there's the Naftogaz of Ukraine, the Bread of Ukraine. Here, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, is actually the subject of the Ukrainian Security Service. Who prepared, who offered, and who was behind it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u170	Thank you. National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u171	Then the subroutines. What are subroutines? What is it, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, sub-programmes approved by the government? What is it when there is a Parliament that has to approve such objects? So I think this is a criminal document that needs to be rejected and the government's attention on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u172	Thank you. Is the MP Mironenko there? None. Kostinuk, Bogdan Kostinuk. Taras Chernobyl will then perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u173	The Ukrainian People's Movement, our Ukraine. Bogdan Costinjuk. Honorable National MPs. True ones who say that the title of the bill should sound like an antistate privatization program. What is the purpose and purpose of the bill? It turns out that the new privatization programme is setting a new political goal in the conduct of economic transformations in Ukraine -- the completion of privatization as a system of transitional reform measures, that is, completion by 2008. I think it's a huge political mistake if I don't say more. The privatization of all property cannot be definitively completed. We need to stop, we need to ensure transparency of privatization, we need to return illegally privatized objects to the state, we need to leave businesses in state ownership that are strategically important to the economy of Ukraine, which today make big profits to the state execution. Why privatize them, that's all the classics say is that privatization is today ineffective, scandalous and criminal. We are offered to prepare for privatization such complexes -- a railway complex to leave to the state-owned railways, forests, platforms, and the rest of the profits -- to privatize. Have you asked the railways how they feel about this process? Are they only asked when it is necessary to express the “goodies” to the presidential reforms? The other one. The oil and gas complex. They're just not making up for the oil and gas complex! And they want to give it to concessions, and they create different consortia. By the way, we've been given no technical and economic justification for their creation so far. And they're saying that the pipe is leaking like a grid. And now they say they're preparing to privatize. How much can be said of a chicken carrying golden eggs?Oh, my God! The oil and gas complex today is a self-sufficient high-income system that can sustain itself, and the transit provides for the state's profit. And her biggest enemy today is obviously Naftogaz Ukraine, NAK Naftogaz Ukraine. They listed which complexes were to be privatized. And five years from now, the privatisations will be over. And there will be no state property. And do you feel, people, that it'll be easier for everyone at once? We have repeatedly stressed the need for transparency in privatization processes, disengagement, maximum openness? But the program proposes to launch such a method of sale as a limited-participating auction, in which only potential buyers invited by the fund can take part. You can imagine, two or three representatives of the oligarchic clans will come together, they'll divide the people, and the state will be left with the woodsmasks. This is the real purpose of those oligarchic clans who have usurped power in Ukraine today. This program cannot be accepted; it must be rejected as unacceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u174	Thank you. The word is given to the National MP Mironka, a faction of Communists. Prepare for Blackwolf. I have the floor to Deputy Cranville. Get ready, nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! I would like to have some positive emotions today. Three bills coming from the government and three can be spoken in principle only negative. And the level of preparation, and what, well, the "foots of the boss," who really want to wear gold shoes, crystal shoes, well, they're sticking out of all three bills. Once again a bill, which in principle is otherwise fundamentally unacceptable. Again, the same absolute subjectivity and volunteerism of Kabmin, which is part of the privatization program. Once again, reintroducing this limited involvement in privatization and strengthening it by the will of Kabmin, and not by the clearly defined laws of Ukraine, by which such things, which can be used especially easily for corruption, are being carried out again. Once again, we are trying to bring about the privatization of particularly important strategic objects through the Supreme Council. Let's just think about it, we've already mentioned the chicken that carries the golden eggs. In no country in the world will they privatize those objects that are not only profitable but that make much more profits in one year than in our principles and methods of privatization can be taken as a whole. Once again, it's totally unacceptable, it's unclear that complexes of whole, powerful, profitable complexes are being moved to double-subordinated properties of the Railway Union, as planned, which can only lead to tragedy and only financial losses. But let's mention what they've done in a much smaller sector -- with aviation, when they've started dividing whole airline complexes, airports, and now we've actually had the final destruction of Ukrainian aviation. Let's just think about it: maybe a little bit stop and start working under the Constitution, as Ostap Bender once said, "read the Criminal Code," rather than adopting programs and laws that are against the state, which legitimize criminality and legitimize theft. This privatization programme cannot be accepted. I was about to give some warning to my colleagues, let's say. of some opposition factions that vote in favour of the government's action programme, this privatization programme is a direct outflow from the government's action programme. I didn't vote for her then. I think we should at least at least at the moment atone for a little bit of sin -- something we didn't read at the time that was very serious and, as far as I'm concerned, dangerous enough, even if we don't make trouble and adopt this law. Who can really destroy the state, can destroy the economy, leave the next generation of Ukrainians without real production, without real property and real manufacturing complexes, and just ruin it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u176	Nigger, "Our Ukraine." Get ready for Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u177	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues! In a state of difficult reflection, I went out to this rostrum, and it is no longer a metaphor, but it is the pain that each of us feels. I am one of those people who supported privatization in Ukraine in every way. I realize now that this process cannot be stopped, it must continue, and we must go this way, but not as it is suggested. My conscience bothers me, I've already talked about it. But I wanted to do what was best. But it worked out as you know. The idea of the government's privatisation programme is to privatize everything and everything on the basis of the regulations through a procedure to limit the number of bidders. Well, you can't agree with that, it's a violation of the terms of privatization even compared to those before that. Practically, there are no tenders, there are virtually no tenders like these, they're all captured, everything paid for, and now there's a legal process of subcontracting because of the process of limiting the number of bidders. With this the Supreme Council absolutely cannot agree, this is a complete loss of control of the Supreme Council over this process and this is an attempt to deprive completely of this process of transparency. The state sector, in fact, will be destroyed. I'm not an ardent proponent of the public sector, private property, in principle, should be more effective than the state sector, but there is a public sector around the world -- 20-30 percent. The State assumes certain obligations, and it is obliged to perform certain economic functions related to the national interests of the State. We have virtually no government, and we can't agree with that either. It is either proposed to privatise strategically important sectors, and not all of them need to be privatized and privatized, or there is a proposal to destroy the integrity of existing complexes, and we cannot agree with that either. The incomprehensible criterion of referring to enterprises that are privatized and those that are not. As a criterion, strategic objects, but we see that they are privatized strategically, and among the list of enterprises that are not privatized are very many secondary enterprises that are behind and do not want to be included in this list. And finally, it's not about what the public sector is going to be, it's about what the private sector is going to be. Whether it will be effective or not, whether it will work for Ukraine’s national interests or not. The point is whether this programme will be implemented to the detriment of Ukraine's national interests -- here's the main question that Parliament should answer and I think it should send to work on this programme. And last of all, literally. There was an emphasis on who was behind it, who wrote it, it doesn't matter. It's important who offers it, it's offered by the Prime Minister, it's reported by the head of the State Property Fund. And we have to assign our claims to the government, if they insist on it, by the way on our committee, they made comments to the Special Commission, and all of these comments, the proposals are ignored. Why is this program so intense and zealous that it runs counter to Ukraine’s national interests. Here's the basic question. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u178	Anatoly Mikolaiovich's frost, get ready for Plastinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u179	Anatoly Moroz, 83 constituency, Zaporez area, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! When you look at the order of the day, there are really very important questions for both the fate of Ukraine and for the fate of the Ukrainian people, but when you look at this room, it is clear that there is probably no interest in many of our colleagues, unfortunately, in these issues that are being considered. The issue of the Government Programme, the State Privatization Programme, is very important and very relevant. But what should be said is that both in the materials and in the report by Mikhail Vasilovic, the main goal of privatization in 2003-2008 is to increase the socio-economic efficiency of producing the completion of large-scale privatization. I would say that the widespread destruction of state property and perhaps the destruction of the state. Why? Because the extreme negative part of this program is the inclusion of provisions on the nature of privatization of important national-owned complexes such as defence, aviation, carbon, railway, shipbuilding, electricity, oil and gas, and so on. What do we leave to the state today? That's the first question. The second question. If the government said today that from the privatization programme, we were just looking at the implementation of the 2002 government budget. That we can boast that the privatization of the State and the people has given us something. Probably not. And this year we feel nothing will work. But the government is pushing the questions of privatization, even those state-owned enterprises, well, it's just that the West is probably going to laugh, or maybe it's going to clap in the palm of its hand. I could bring, and I'm starting to understand Mikhail Vasilovich, and I've been fighting this important state-owned enterprise for 3.5 years, like the Southendizelmash, the only unique enterprise is zero. Where he didn't go to the President, to the Cabinet of Ministers, the last answer from Yanukovic that the question is in control, and the company dies, they stretch, they move, they take complex equipment out of this company, they sell it for cash. I understand now that this program isn't this year, so the next one will include "Semi-Dieselmash." Doesn't the state need this business? Therefore, respectable colleagues, given the importance of the above - mentioned objects for the economy of the state, may note that the withdrawal of these objects from state property is undesirable, since in this case the defense of the country, its energy, coal, electricity, oil, grain will be administered by individual shareholders of the society, even if the Cabinet of Ministers approves. How the state can rely on someone to protect its citizens' security of the country and economic independence, is not. Therefore, honourable colleagues, unlike the policy of destroying state ownership of their own state and of their own people, this privatization programme cannot be called second. I support the opinions of my colleagues who speak and say that this privatization programme is not acceptable in any way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u180	The platinum, the Faction of the SDPU, and then we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u181	Dear Alexander Alexiyovich! Dear fellow MPs! I'm going to make such an unusual point today in support of this bill. The draft Law on State Privatisation is known to have been taken quite critically in the Supreme Council. A professional committee recommended that he be sent to the Cabinet of Ministers for work. In our view, a negative assessment of the document is primarily related, not to its quality, to some major flaws, but to the fact that it affects the interests of influential lobbying groups. Of course, the bill is not ideal, but it can be no different, given its compromise, a complex path of interdisciplinary agreement, which greatly weakens the systemic character of the document. In our view, the rejection of the project will result in a continuation of the endless process of agreement that will only damage its quality. In all its faults, the project contains fairly clear mechanisms to combat the use of illegal, shadowy privatization under non-privatization schemes, which have been known to have become extremely widespread in recent years. Therefore, the deviation of the program will mean that the Supreme Council will actually authorize the continuation of these schemes of organically related corruption, with huge budget losses. It must be understood that the deviation of the programme or its completion will not stop the privatization process, but will deprive the state of the long duration of the existing mechanisms of influence on the process. The main advantage of the new programme is to improve sales procedures by applying an individual approach to privatization of strategic enterprises. The absence of such an approach has already led to great executions. We all know of numerous cases of privatization of strategic objects for invaluablely irresponsible owners who are unable to manage these objects effectively. The deviation of the project will result in a continuation of this practice. Finally, it is important to consider that in order to improve the standards set out in the program, they do not have to be rejected or sent for work. The programme envisages the development of special sub-programmes to privatize particularly important folk-based complexes. Questions that cause contradictions can be solved in the development and adoption of these subroutines. In the light of the above arguments, the Act on the State Privatization Programme is appropriate to be adopted in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-03-m0.u182	We finished the discussion. I just want to say, Mikhail Vasilovich, that your attention is extremely critical. Uncritical discussion. The next meeting will begin at 4 p.m. Thank you for your attention.
