ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:43]] Registered -419 There are 419 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honorary colleagues, on January 16, 2003, the Central Election Commission recognized the elected and registered Shurma Igor Mikhajlovich as Ukrainian national deputy in a multi-mandatory national constituency from the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To make an oath to the rostrum, National Deputy Igor Mikhailovich Shurma is invited, please. Storm Igor Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all my fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u3	Yes, welcome, dear colleagues. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the arrival of the Ukrainian National Deputy Shurma Igor Mihajlovich as part of the parliamentary faction of the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] In harmony with part six of article 4.2. 3 I am informing the Supreme Council of Ukraine about the creation of a new interfractional parliamentary association "The Health of the Future" to support the physical and moral health of the people of Ukraine, a healthy way of life and environmental security. It was composed of 15 Ukrainian national deputies, authorized representatives: Peter Oleg Volodymyrovich, Pavelenko Yuri Alexiyovich, Pravdenko Sergey Makarovich. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules on Friday, we discuss the order of the day session. You have a list of questions to consider. I remind you that you know very well that today we are to close the second session of the Supreme Council. If you don't have any objections, after 12 hours, we could figure it out. There are no requests today, but since we are concluding the second session, let me announce the questions that have come. Is there no objection? Please. National Deputy Boki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u4	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I don't think anyone else as you spoke of it, and it is stipulated by the Rules that on Fridays from 12th to 13th we should have "Variable." I think we don't need to step away from this. We want it or we don't want it, but a lot of MPs have piled up, and there's something to say in the Miscellaneous. Our electors will listen to us today very carefully, and I think we should not turn our backs on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u5	Okay. It's a deal, dear fellows. Let me then announce the questions. Requests were received from Ukrainian National Deputies Olga Hinzburg to the President of Ukraine in connection with the delay in executing the Dnipropetrovsk District’s decision-making service and the Supreme Court of Ukraine’s criminal case number 051058-KOI. I would like to vote in favour of this request. [[10:06:18]] For 185 Decision taken. I'm voting for Olga Hinzburg's request to the President of Ukraine. I remind you, 226 votes. [[10:06:43]] For 208 VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE Again.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u6	I am voting for the request to the President of Ukraine of the People's Deputy Olga Hinzburg. Vote, please. [[10:07:11]] For 225 VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE Again, again.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u7	I am voting for the request of the People's Deputy Olga Hinzburg to the President of Ukraine. [[10:07:38]] For 239. Vladimir Oneichuk to the President of Ukraine on the illegal and unjustified increase in housing and utility tariffs in Odessa. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:08:09]] For 184 Roger that, support is in place. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:08:32]] For-187 The decision is not taken. Mikli Kravchenk to the President of Ukraine regarding the further increase in tariffs for the carriage of goods by the Cruise Station. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:08:57]] For the 250. I'd like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:09:19]] For 256 Decision accepted, request sent. At the same time, I'd like to say that the Cabinet of Ministers cancelled this order of the Railroads. Oleg Tragnibok to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the use of the Supreme Council of Ukraine dormitory on Observatory Street. What, do we have a dormitory like this? Well, let's vote, then let's figure it out, please. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:53]] For 238. Decision taken. Victor Borszewski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the insufficient use of environmentally sound explosives in mining operations at the Krivbasu iron companies. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:19]] For 224 Decision taken. Anatolia Ástovajka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the provision of a warm house for the elderly in the city of Jenakijevo Donetské region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:44]] For 218. For negative 218. Decision taken. Vasil Bartkov to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the construction of the premises of the city hospital of Ivano-Frankov. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:09]] For the 220. For the 220. Decision taken. Viktor Borszewski to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the critical situation of drinking water supply for the population of the Krivoriz region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:34]] For-200 For-200. Decision taken. Vladimir Sovkovic to Prime Minister of Ukraine for smuggling large parties of cane sugar into Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:00]] For 238. For 238. Decision taken. Michael Wolinz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the purpose of deliberately obstructing the legitimate activities of trade unions by officials of the State Department of Ukraine. [[10:12:24]] For-174 For 174. Decision taken. Ivan Tomić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to execute the debt waiver order for the construction of a school in the region of Cologne. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:53]] For 229 For 229. Decision taken. Valentina Semenyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine in connection with the unlawful refusal of the head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration to provide information to the Ukrainian national deputy. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:20]] For 201 Decision taken. National deputies: Immortal, Tomenka, Catherinechuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the illegal use of Ukrainian military technology. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:49]] For 180. Decision taken. Ukrainian National Deputies: Tsushka, Bokiya, Malinovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of current legislation by foreign non-resident companies. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:17]] For 181 Decision taken. Valentina Semenyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the insufficient consideration of the appeal of the Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization concerning the alienation of government shares of the company Skrnaftoproduct. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:49]] For 186 Decision taken. Georgia Kruczkov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the circumstances of the sale of military property to the Ministry of Defence of the commercial structure, the Open Shareholder Society of Leninska Kusna. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:18]] For-142 Decision taken. Stepan Cloud to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the verification of the falsification of the official documents of the High Council of Justice by individual members and the head of the Secretariat of the High Council of Justice. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:47.]] For 155 Decision taken. Mikola Krutza is the Minister of Transportation of Ukraine for the completion of the reconstruction of the Ivano-Frankivsky station. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:13]] For 204 Decision taken. Anatolia Matvienka, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, on the introduction of a temporary order for the registration of property for immovable property in accordance with valid legislation. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:42]] For-149 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakova, Minister for Emergency Situations and Protection of the Population from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster regarding the decision-making of citizens who have suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, but who are not in a position to do so. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:14]] For 190 Decision taken. Ukrainian National Deputies: Nastavajka, Nosenka, Orzhahovsky - to the Minister of the Interior of Ukraine on violations of current legislation by non-resident companies of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:42]] For 158. Decision taken. Mikhail Pavlovski, head of the Chamber of Accounts of Ukraine, on providing information on the use of budget funds for the purchase of imported goods if such goods are produced in Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on that request. [[10:18:11]] For-179 Decision taken. National deputies of Ukraine: Demjochina, Klimpusha, Gavriluka to the head of the Ukrainian State Department for the execution of sentences for failure to comply with the decisions of the Krasnoggardsky District Court of Dnipropetrovska. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:41]] For-141 Decision taken. Hennady Rudenka to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the debt of the state energy-generating company Centroenergo in front of the Mirgorod Office of Housing and Utilities. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:10]] For-126 Decision taken. Hennady Rudenka to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine on the status of work to ensure the constitutional rights of educational workers. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:37]] For-143 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the dissemination by the Attorney General of indiscreet information on disability and detention in the psychiatric hospital of the head of the All-U.S. Justice Party of Montenegro. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:10]] For-90 Decision taken. Stepan Cloud to the Attorney General of Ukraine for establishing the reasons for the non-payment of savings to the investors of the “Slovyanski” Bank. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:39]] For-152. For -90(?), the decision is made. Anatolia Moroz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for grants to education, culture and health workers. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:02]] For-174 For - 174, the decision is made. Jury Solomatin to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in connection with the dissatisfaction with the response of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine to the efforts of the Kyiv District Council to transfer the former property of the Kyiv Community Company of Ukraine from state ownership to municipal property. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:36]] For 116 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, we have almost 30 national MPs on Rizzne. If there's no objection, at 12:30, we could start the Miscellaneous and use it to officially close the session. Is there any objection? Let us move on to our work according to the schedule of meetings. Is there no objection? All I would ask is that we honorary colleagues ensure the presence of the national deputies, since we have invited representatives of the government as well as the judicial branch of power to be closed. Out of procedure, please, who? Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u8	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, yesterday's proposal to return to the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the subject of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And this proposal did not give rise to any objection. The only reason we didn't go back to her is because it's just time. So I would ask that we include this question, which is the 156-1 project that won the largest number of votes yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u9	I'll have the Secretariat give these papers, we'll get back to them. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda and the adoption of a decision under the draft Act amending the Ukraine Land Code on the regulation of land relations of non-state agricultural enterprises. This is a document under the number, please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u10	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Unfortunately, to date, Vladimir Mikhajlovich has been amended in January in the Ukrainian House to the Rules, which says that voting usually takes place once a week -- every Thursday. Therefore, in order to vote today, it is necessary to vote first in order to make ad hoc today, and unlike what we have done, to allow the Supreme Council today to also hold a vote day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. I'm putting to the vote the proposal, the right one, of the people's deputy Martiniuk, that we now vote for today's decision-making day. Please vote on this proposal. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention, please vote? [[10:24:40]] For 265 Thank you for the 265, thank you. I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda and for the adoption of a decision from the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Land Code on the settlement of land relations of non-state agricultural enterprises. This is document number 2391. Please vote. [[10:25:10]] For 261 For -261. Decision taken. Please, Sergey Vladislavovich Sobolev. Is it Sobolev? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u12	Dear friends, the honourable chairman. The question is the following. In connection with the adoption of the Earth Code and its entry into force on January 1, 2002, a number of collective agricultural enterprises that have not been able to form their relations to this point have now found themselves in a situation where this land cannot be used for property rights. That is why a number of national MPs, representing various factions of Parliament, have introduced a draft amendment and additions to the Law on the Earth Code, which allows collective agricultural enterprises, collective enterprises, which were part of factories, factories, mines, and mines to carry out all the order and procedure for securing this land according to the law. It's the key. The only observation that is the Scientific and Experimental Department, so we insist only on the adoption of the first reading, that is the decision of the Land Committee, to write more clearly the rule that applies to which land this is going to apply. That's the point of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, do you have a question for the reporter? Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u14	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine," the Party of Fatherland Defenders. I'd like, in principle, to support this bill, but I have a very big question about how to take land that is already owned or used, including on lease rights, if it goes against both the Constitution and the rights of other citizens and other businesses. How do you really think you're going to put this into practice? Re-wars to wage, civil war again. Do you not see such a terrible, very serious danger posed by such, well, seemingly good wishes? With these wishes, the road to hell can be paved. Every civil war over the earth is still a war. So I predict things like this, I'd like you to tell me how you want to get out of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u15	Once again, I emphasize the lands involved. By January 1, 2002, the President’s decree was that all collective agricultural enterprises would be forced to decommission the land. By January 1st, this order had not been passed by all CSPs. That's why this bill refers to lands that are now owned by collective agricultural enterprises. But in view of the fact that the legislator has abolished such a concept as collective land ownership, these businesses, which continue to use this land, do not have the opportunity to establish ownership and work on this earth. It's not about taking away any land from other owners, it's only about the same users that have been using for the last 70, 60 years, that's who it's about. And that's why the Scientific and Expert Department noted that on the second reading it's important to extend this rule by writing this particular formulation. And on the land committee, they agreed to do so and offered to accept it today only on the first reading. The same decision is true of factories, factories, and mines that were unable to form their relationships by January 1, 2002. After January 1, 2002, they are unable to form these relationships because they are either on the stockholders’ balance sheet, which is no longer state, municipal or private property. And in this way they similarly fell under the earthly code, falling out of that list of enterprises that could form the very property on earth. This applies only to these.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u16	Catherine Vaschuk, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u17	Dear reporter! Dear colleagues! The Earth Code has taken into account all businesses and the President's decree has not been stopped. And second moment. There is no conclusion either to the State or to the services that work with the earth today, and they know clearly which land is already in ruins, which land is yet to be decomposed. As far as I am concerned, until all of this has been clarified, the bill should be passed on to him. Why? Because we can make a strain in those populated areas where the earth is already scattered, there will be overcrowding, redistribution. Then we'll have a problem. That's why I wouldn't feel that way. such a storm before making this decision. It needs further study so that we do not cause more trouble than we do today. There is no doubt that these lands need to be allowed to decay. But we have to have clear conclusions from the State Commission and the organizations involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u18	Thank you. I'll give you a brief answer. After my statement that dozens of enterprises in Zaporozhye alone cannot go through the order defined by the Earth Code, Danilenko provided an explanation for government administrations that are not being implemented today. Regarding the fact that such collective agricultural enterprises have the right to decay in general, as it was before January 1. This is now the order of Danielenk, head of the State Commission, and that is why after the meeting held at Danielenka, which was held by Melnik, State Secretary of the Ministry of Agrarian Politics, a decision was made to amend and supplement the Code of Land. Moreover, the Agrarian Committee had representatives of the State Commission, the Ministry of Agrarian Politics, who supported this proposal for amendments and additions to the Earth Code. This is about the second position. In fact, it's a furious month. If these farms are unable to establish their land relations, do you understand what this is threatening for such a number of farms in Ukraine? Once again, this applies only to farms that are currently using this land on lease rights. They still cannot develop their legal relationship on earth.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u19	Thank you. Sergei Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u20	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Your Honor, I have two moments or two for you, or two lines. First of all, I would like to support Catherine Vaschuk's statement that the Earth Code needs to be treated very carefully, very carefully, until we have figured out what is going on today. If we start making changes today, I don't think we'll ever make a difference. Because we have legislation that is much faster than we are dealing with on the ground, which unfortunately is still a lot to this day. That's the first one. And the second question. It's so easy for you to ask this question from a legal point of view today, and I'm asking you from a practical point of view. Thus, the stockholder society selects abandoned, broken collectives, invests enormous funds there, trades them, pays them wages, settles debts, works with them today, why you put them today in conditions where all their previous work goes to zero. Who will determine this role? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u21	Thank you. I answer your question. According to the current Earth Code, all factories and factories are supportive, and I am convinced that the factory that you represent has supported farms that are obliged to reshape their relationships for five years in connection with the absence of collective property on earth. And so, for example, farm support, about 300 for today’s mines, factories, and I have just begun to raise this issue in connection with references that existed, have no opportunity to form a legal relationship on earth today. Plants are forced to transfer these farms, they have no right to continue to influence either the financial mechanism or any other mechanism to operate such farms. And so for the first time, we enter into the next work that will take place in the fall, when neither the factory now nor this farm has ownership of this land. That's what this bill is all about, it's proposing to settle relationships, because it's written by the legislator that there's no collective property on the ground. What about 300 factories and factories that haven't been able to settle these relationships until January 1st? Where will this land go now? What about the 1,100 CSPs that failed to break up by January 1, 2002?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u22	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u23	I'll bring the last fact. We have 35 other colonies in Ukraine that in due course did not comply with the President’s obligation to be disintegrated, and so from January 1, 2002, they turned out to be not their land, even though they are working on this land, they are processing it. If it's a subsidiary of a factory, they're processing it together with a factory, but this land is now off the property. And unfortunately, when the Lawgiver considered the Earth Code, he did not settle those relations in the Transitional Regulations.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u24	Alexander Mikolaiovich Tkachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u25	Dear colleagues! I don't think we should blame each other. I was right for two reasons. The first reason that the Earth Codex was not accepted in this room was that it did not address these issues that are being raised today. Catherine Timofievna is here speaking and making a link to the Earth Codex. I think it's a shame and a disgrace if an agrarian who understands these questions today raises such a question as that raised by the national MP Sobolev. And the second. The President had no right to sign a decree on land degradation, which was a global economic issue, and the President's rights or powers to sign economic decrees on those issues that were not regulated by law ended in June 1999. So I think we need to support the amendment proposal made by Deputy Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u26	National Deputy Sulkovsky. Dear colleagues, we have a long time to ask. I'll tell you from the procedure, okay. I see, I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u27	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honourable National Deputies, Sulkovsky, Goshtansk Election District, Ravenshina You know, dear friends, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you know, the soul hurts when the person who's been running mostly and organizing agrarian politics in a country that's worked virtually all his life in a village, and when he says today, he lets things go, it really hurts the soul. Well, if an industrialist were to speak there or a businessman, that's another question. But when you hear from someone like that today, I just want to say, I support Alexander Mikolaiovich, thank you for what you're really telling the truth. This person who has been leading the Agrarian Party for more than ten years, has been plowing and sowing almost under this dome. And she's practically ripped off the peasants. And that's why I'm making a specific proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u28	I'm asking you, we're not discussing people today, we're discussing issues today. I'm asking you essentially. Come on, let's make an offer, but I'm asking you not to insult other deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u29	Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Agricultural Policy and Land Relations fully supports this project and Mr. Sobolev. Therefore, I urge the distinguished national MPs to be supported right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u30	People's Deputy Masters. Catherinechuck, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u31	Mikola Dmitrovich Catherinechuk, 13th constituency, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to start talking about the land issue today and not take part in it, but it sounded like things in the hall that surprised me. I realized that the President's decree of despair was not considered a crime against agriculture in the Supreme Council, and I don't think so. It's a crime. And history will appreciate that. As far as the codex is concerned. In order for this code to work, the Earth Code, we'll have to adopt 30 laws, and we'll see how we can adopt them with you. And now what Sobolev is proposing is a perfectly reasonable offer that needs to be supported. Without it, we're not going to be able to come up with some reasonable mechanism for settling this issue. And in conclusion, I'd like you to be more tolerant of the different opinions of the national MPs, and I don't want us to start some discussion with the agrarians today, but I think we need to get them more involved and explain what we're trying to do in the village. I don't think they understand everything. I ask you to support Mr. Sobolev's offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u32	Thank you. Anatoly Frost. I'm asking you, very briefly, dear colleagues, but time is up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u33	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I think we should support this bill. And Catherine Timothy should be told that we cannot, so to speak, usurp or monopolize our right, so to speak, to take the initiative in adopting the Earth Code. In the Codex Earth, as we see today and in our Constitution, there are a lot of holes, and they need to be patched up. And I'm asking Catherine Timothy and all my colleagues, what do we do today for the companies that do the tribal selection work? An amendment to the earthly code should also be made. So I urge you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u34	Thank you. Valerius Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u35	Thank you. I wanted to contact Catherine Timothy and those who offered not to vote very briefly. You can see the question that has arisen now, what discussion. The question is why not vote in the first reading and get the picture straight. The rapporteur does not suggest voting in general. Let's vote in the first reading and figure it out if it's so controversial. We don't want to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u36	Thank you. Mikola Melnik, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u37	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I was one of the initiators of this bill. And we've been looking at this bill on the committee, and the committee has fully supported this bill, that we have 100 more farms in Ukraine today, 100 ex-cons, 30 radgos and many factories. What is so incomprehensible? I don't understand what they're doing. Perhaps Catherine Vaschuk did not understand this bill and that is why she did.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u38	Oh, no. Let's vote. I got it. I got it. We convinced each other. Ivan Tomic.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u39	Ivan Tomic, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I didn't want us to politicize that issue. This is primarily the case with peasants. And why we limit the rights of one another to other peasants. Those peasants who worked in special schools in enterprises, mines and other farms where the land is in collective form today, we are not allowed to get land, the average share of pie. A clear position of the committee on this issue. The committee unanimously voted in favour of the proposals made by the national MP Soboljev. At this meeting was the first deputy head of the Statecommere, the position of the Statecommere -- to support it as well. And I urge you to stand by! We'll give people the opportunity to get the land. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u40	Thank you. Sergey, please. Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u41	I'm almost 30 seconds away. I really don't want to politicize that question either. The only proposal that exists here is to accept on the first reading and on the second reading, the proposals that will be offered by you, Mrs. Catherine, to all others, will be taken into account. Moreover, this is really the position of the State and the Ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u42	Catherine Vaschuk, please, the faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. I'd like the deputies to come into the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, I am surprised at the position of many national deputies. Dear colleagues, you've been here four years. There is room for serious involvement in the work of land legislation. And just to offend each other is, first of all, incorrect and gives evidence of completely different moral qualities than those of a national MP. So, men and deputies, think a little bit before you talk. And the second. On the first reading, we agree. And the faction of the Agrarian Party will vote on this law. But I'm talking to everyone again. And the people's MPs who say the Earth Code is a document that's very important. And it is not possible for the same land that has already been incinerated to be overcrowded. That's why I came to you. And I'm also surprised by Alexander Mikolayovich. Instead of allowing the earth’s code to be discussed in a calm manner, you made amendments. Perhaps there would be no need for today, perhaps for the national deputies to see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the adoption of the draft Law amending the Ukraine Land Code for the Regulation of Land Relations of Non-State Agricultural Enterprises. Please vote. [[10:46:16]] For 261 For 261. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, with a working visit to Ukraine today, there are delegations from the Seima of the Republic of Lithuania, members of an interparliamentary group with Ukraine. They're in our room. Let us welcome our guests and wish them a successful stay in Ukraine. [[Applause]] Thank you. Adam Martinyuk, please, from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u45	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I want to make an offer that I think will interest the hall and get support in the session room. Even from what I'm going to do, they say, for my own good, because there is still one bill that I have to report on, but still, taking into account the situation that the Head of the Supreme Council has informed us that at 12:30 we will have a cabinet of ministers in full to complete the work of our second session. We agreed on this, and a lot of the national MPs insist, if I'm not mistaken, on 27 national MPs or 30 people there to participate in the Miscellaneous, which we haven't had in a long time. It's clear that we need at least an hour to use time for different things. So I, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, suggest that we work in voting mode by 11.30, 11.30 to go to a different hour to take away, and at 12:30 to begin the formal closing of the second session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u46	Is there no objection? Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u47	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I'm asking you. I now supported the bill, which was reported by the National MP Sobolev, who was also tabled by other deputies. At the same time, you have deprived me of the legal and regulatory capacity to reason on specific points that should be made in the adoption of this law for the second reading. They got me out of the law. I strongly object to this and I would ask you not to transform further the violation when there is a question-and-answer regime. If the envisaged procedure of discussion is a procedure of discussion, not answers to questions. Please consider, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you are a quick learner, please learn here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u48	Okay. Counted. People's MP Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u49	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! In principle, the national MP Carmazin expressed what I wanted to say. Please, this is a very painful question -- the Earth Code, a very painful question of acceptance of amendments to the Code. I would ask you not to take seven steps on this issue, to allow the discussion to take place. I voted, Vladimir Mikhailovich, because I studied this bill with Sobolev yesterday, and I support it. I ask you very much, this is the only opportunity for the MP to speak in the session room so that all voters will hear. Do not leave us this right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We were tolerant here, and perhaps compromiseable, and everyone who wanted to make a statement said so. Dear colleagues! You don't have to blame me. Igor Ostasz. And let's continue to work on the schedule, with the procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u51	Igor Ostash, "Our Ukraine." The presiding officer, of course, has to work under the Rules. Since we have a wide range of questions today, we usually need to consider them as long as we work under the Rules. We have "Variance," as always, starting at 13 o'clock. We can move ahead for half an hour so that we can still go through all the questions and celebrate the session. Therefore, the request is to abide by the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, let's be realistic. We're going to follow the Rules and I'm going to read the closing statement in an empty room. If you need it, let's talk about it. I'll take it. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda and consideration of the draft decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the President of Ukraine and the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the 40th anniversary of the Caribbean crisis. Please vote. [[10:51:23]] For 121 "For" is 121, no decision taken. Dear colleagues! We wanted to have a consensus in the session room and work. Next thing I know, nothing's gonna happen. Then we'll have to close the session not at 12:30, but now it's 11:30. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda and the draft decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the President of Ukraine and the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the 40th anniversary of the Caribbean crisis. Read this neutral document. Please. And please vote. [[10:52:15]] For 186 I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda and for the decision of the draft decision on the "Council" system of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please identify yourself. [[10:52:45.]] For-157. For - 157, no decision is taken. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda and the decision of the draft Order amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the List of Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fourth Appeal. [[10:53:14]] For 171 For -171, no decision is made. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda and the adoption of a decision from the draft Act amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act. [[about the money coming from advertising]] [[10:53:43]] For 131 For -131, you see how productive we work. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda and the decision of the draft Order amending Article 3.2. 1 of the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine People's deputies are asked to determine how to vote. [[10:54:12]] For 176 In 176, one minute. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda and consideration of the draft Ordinance on State Support for Newspapers, which is issued in the languages of national minorities. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:54:39]] For 218. To - 218. Tomenko Mikola's procedure. I'm asking you to mobilize, dear colleagues, now we'll work on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, there has been a perfectly clear situation that can only be solved in the following way. I am absolutely convinced that our colleagues from "Our Ukraine," from other factions, have acted improperly, not to vote in favour of the inclusion of a single decision that is proposed by colleagues from other factions. The right of each faction, and the MP to raise questions and the right of deputies to vote in favour or in favour. So I propose to go back to the draft decision to refer the Supreme Council to the President, the Prime Minister, to vote on and then move on. And it is obvious that this will resolve the situation on other issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u54	What will be the will of the Supreme Council? I would. Let's try it. I'll bet on it. Let's try it. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda and consideration of the draft decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the President of Ukraine and the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the 40th anniversary of the Caribbean crisis." Please vote. [[10:56:08]] For 190 Yes, the decision is not made, so let's move on. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda and consideration of the draft Act amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Act on Special Economic Zones and Special Investment Regime in the Donetsk Region on the taxation of goods produced in the CEZ territory. Nobody shot anything last night, so let's not. I put it to a vote. Appoint by vote. [[10:56:48]] For-88 I am introducing to your consideration the draft Law on the Legal Status of Ukrainians. The rest of Igor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u55	Dear Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! Asked to calm down after such a violent vote. I would like to say that we are today in the process of forming a Ukrainian political nation and are extremely important to us today, the very consolidation of Ukrainians not only inside Ukraine, but also of Ukrainians living outside Ukraine. As you know, article 12 of the Constitution states that Ukraine cares about the satisfaction of the national and linguistic needs of Ukrainians living outside the country. Today, more than 12 million are involved. Ukrainians who live outside the country. One interesting example. The population of the Kuril Islands, very far away from Ukraine, is almost 15 percent Ukrainian. I would like to say that the idea of this bill came about back in 97 when the Congress of the World Forum of Ukrainians was held, and then representatives of 46 states, the Ukrainians of 46, asked us to support the bill on Ukrainians. And that's why I think that we should return this debt and adopt this law at least on the first reading. This, by the way, is done in many parts of the world. So, in particular, on February 14, 97, the National Council of the Slovak Republic passed the law on foreign Slovaks and on amendments and additions to certain laws. Similarly, a similar law was passed in Bulgaria on March 29, 2000. In June 2001, the National Assembly of the Republic of Hungary approved the law on Hungarians living in neighboring countries. The same is true of their diaspora and Romanian parliamentarians. So, of course, we got a lot of references from the organizations of the Ukrainian diaspora, such as the Russian diaspora, the Ukrainian diaspora in Russia, Latvia, other European states asking to support this bill. I would like to say that in the process of our work we have received many comments from the national deputies of Ukraine. And I think they can be taken into account in preparing for the second reading. I also wanted to thank the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, which made its proposals, comments to this bill, and some of them are absolutely correct. By the way, these observations say that more than 20,000 interests should also be taken into account. Ukrainians who now live in Transnistria and who are Ukrainian citizens. And I think in preparing for the second reading, we're going to have to take that position into account. I would also like to thank our extraordinary and authoritative ambassadors who actively participated in the drafting of this bill, particularly Buteyko, who works in Europe today, constantly informs us about the adoption of the Romanian similar law, and also wishes to thank Oreste Klimpus, who is today Ukraine's national deputy, but who has also followed the process of adopting the Hungarian similar bill as an ambassador to Hungary. I would also like to say that we want to continue to hold a round table in preparation for the second reading, at which we will invite all interested MPs and representatives of the councils with the participation of our diaspora, so that we can really, really discuss the bill thoroughly again. The bill was also examined by Professor Jurtenberg, Head of the Task Force on Constitutional Law of the Ukrainian-European Centre, and an expert on the conformity of European legislation, and it was concluded that it did not conflict with international treaty law and general international principles. I would also like to say that for us, in fact, as the deputy head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, this project has also been discussed in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and it has been supported by members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and recommended for a vote in the first reading. Finally, all of us are responsible for returning to Ukraine. We now have only 48 million 900,000 Ukrainians, but remember that 12 million live outside Ukraine. So our task is to work on the return of Ukrainians to Ukraine after the adoption of this bill. Today we have programs for the return of Crimean Tatars, and that's fair, we should really return historical justice, and the next step should be the program for the return of Ukrainians to Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u56	Will there be questions for the reporter? Please sign up. Lighten up. Barani's Alexander Petrovich. The next one is Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u57	Thank you. It's a faction of socialists. Alexander Baranowski. Dear Igor Ivanovich, you rightly said that a return program was needed, but today there is a program in place to expel Ukrainians abroad to seek earnings and all that. 5 million Ukrainians today are citizens of Ukraine abroad. On wages they seek to live properly, a piece of bread and children to feed. Please tell me, how does this law take into account the interests of these Ukrainians who are being killed there, where they take the profits that are being raped there and all that? Can we protect them in any way? That's the first one. And the second. Do you, after all, foresee this law to be appropriate in making certain agreements with these countries, where most of our Ukrainians can be protected by those who are on wages, and then, of course, what you've been talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u58	Thank you for the very serious question. Indeed, more than five million Ukrainians are reportedly forced to seek employment outside Ukraine today. And the reason, of course, in the economic situation in Ukraine, in our troubles. And it's clear that we're called upon to protect our Ukrainians, who are now, unfortunately, the new scrapbooks that sometimes work on slave terms, which unfortunately are the victims of the slave trade, the modern slave trade. Our task now is to support the efforts of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine to sign bilateral agreements with countries such as Italy, Greece, Portugal, Israel and many others, because that is where our Ukrainians work. Some of the agreements have been signed today. I would like to say that the European Union has a special position here. And the first country with which a treaty can be signed is Portugal. Today, practically both sides have agreed on a temporary employment agreement that provides for the protection of the social, medical, insurance and so forth of our Ukrainians who work abroad. If we can break through the first window in Portugal, I think this example can be followed by other countries of the European Union, but the main task is in the middle of the state. We have to make it economically sustainable to create new businesses in Ukraine, to create new jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u59	George Manchulenko, next Cosakov. Please, Igor Ivanovich, give a more concise answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u60	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Cherniewec region. Please give the floor to Rephat Chubarov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u61	Thank you very much. Your Honor, the law is so necessary, there is no doubt. But apart from the Ukrainian nation, which acts as a nation-building nation, there are indigenous peoples of Ukraine living within Ukraine, who have no and cannot have any form of state. I would have taken Crimean Tatars, Karaites, and Crimeans to such nations. Say, please, if we adopt the law in such a form, who will care for these people, which are also from my point of view, they are the same Ukrainians outside Ukraine, but is there another ethnic sign? So, as far as I'm concerned, your law doesn't provide for this, and here we need to find a mechanism so that it can be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u62	Thank you so much for asking. I would like to say that all Ukrainian citizens, regardless of their ethnic background, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, are recognized as Ukrainians in the context of a single political nation. And of course, in preparing the second reading, we have to take that moment into account. We really have to assume that all Ukrainians of Ukrainian origin who live and live or live or live in Ukrainian territory now in the context of the notion of a political nation are Ukrainians. So I support your thesis on this. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u63	Vladimir Tikhovitch Puzakov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u64	Thank you. Please pass on the word of Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u65	Please, Yuri Petrovich. Solomatin's microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u66	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Your Honor, there was a meeting yesterday between representatives of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation and representatives of our Parliament. And among our guests, by the way, were these: Hamanenko, Grebenjuk, Bondar, Piscoon, Condratenko, etc. Even more in the name of Ukrainian origin than was the Russian on our side: Gračov, Gerasimov, Solomatine, etc. That's why I have a question about article 7 of the "Agreements for the status of the Ukrainian diaspora" part one and part two. Part one says that the conditions for granting a person status as a foreigner are the desire to have the status of Ukrainian diaspora and Ukrainian nationality or Ukrainian ethnic origin. And this is evidenced by certain documents or confirmed by at least two Ukrainian citizens. Question: "Does it not seem to you that in this case almost 2/3 of Russia, not to mention part of Belarus, will become representatives of the Ukrainian diaspora? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u67	I am convinced that all of these deputies, who were called Ukrainian by you, will very easily become foreign Ukrainians under this bill and will be certified by the Ukrainian. I'd like to say that we've actually analyzed all the bills that are now in existence, and let's say the Hungarian project is about people of Hungarian nationality who don't have Hungarian citizenship; the Slovak person of Slovak nationality; the Bulgarian person of Bulgarian origin. And so it's clear that in preparing for the second reading, I think it's going to have to come out of what, in fact, we're talking about the Ukrainian political nation today. And to speak of the very Ukrainian background, that is, those people whose relatives or children or grandmothers lived in Ukraine would have the right to receive the status of a foreigner.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u68	Thank you. Time's up. Have a seat, please. The word is given for a report to the Ukrainian national deputy, Gunner Evgen Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u69	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The bill before me is not an alternative to the one reported by Deputy Ostas. These projects are more mutually reinforcing. It's just that this question is really relevant and it's long overdue, and representatives of some public diaspora organizations have approached you with Deputy Jovtak, hoping that this bill will still go through to include a number of positions that represent a significant interest in this diaspora and on which they insist. The difference between the previous and this bill is very small and I'm just going to save time about this difference in part. What is the difference? The first is terminology. After all, the names "foreign Ukraine" or "foreign Ukraine" don't quite match, we think, the Constitution, which is why the term "Ukraine from Diaspora" is introduced. In addition, the terms of the term "the Ukrainian diaspora" are ethnic origins and self-identified by linguistic and national cultures. We think that not just on all lines should there be Ukrainian origins, but there should be one line. And we have a lot of examples where a person doesn't speak Ukrainian, doesn't have Ukrainian culture, but he thinks he's Ukrainian, and so there's no reason why such Ukrainians can't get that status. We have included in this law also such a detail as the possibility of a more faithful impossibility of a diaspora Ukrainian to represent another diaspora. I mean, there's clearly only one choice. In our view, 2 positions regarding the granting of the status of Ukrainian diaspora are still not entirely valid. What are they up to? In particular, it is required that documents be presented that a person has not committed a crime. But this reminds us of the situation in the famous 13-steater helmet, when a famous character was asked to provide help, whether he was a camel or not, for example, a Himalayan. In our view, such requirements do not meet human rights, they are violations of the Constitution and the presumption of innocence. If our governmental factors want to test the case or the indiscretion of the subject, they should do so themselves. We also believe that they have the right to grant the status of Ukrainian diaspora to those who already have this status to their children, and that children will be identified by their own identity after 16 years. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that we have very many representatives of the so - called new diaspora who have long left Ukraine and are in the process of obtaining another nationality, but at the same time they do not want to break their ties with Ukraine. Thus, this law applies to persons without citizenship, as well as to persons with foreign citizenship. With regard to rights and obligations. We are still insisting on the right to unbounded entry for an unlimited period of stay outside the territory of Ukraine under appropriate registration, as well as comparisons between these Ukrainians in the area of utilities. For example, there is still an incomprehensible difference in hotel fees as well as in the care and adoption of Ukrainian citizens. Believe me, most of the Ukrainians in the diaspora are not taken out of care or adoption to use it for criminal purposes, absolutely, almost everyone. The guarantees of the satisfaction of the national needs of the Ukrainian diaspora are presented in a separate chapter and are described more fully, as in the relevant Russian Law on the Protection of Their Neighbors. The honourable deputies certainly do not need two similar laws to complete the proposal. So both teams need to develop a consistent version of the amendment and accept it in a second reading. This law is necessary for both our diaspora and Ukraine, and it will contribute to a variety of positive developments for Ukraine, both in investment and in the cultural and educational sphere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u70	Will there be questions? Please sign up. Lighten up. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, next to the Oily.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u71	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. I was certainly very pleased with what you said at the end in your last sentence that the authors should sit down and work together, because the bills actually don't conflict with each other. But at the same time, sharing your concern about what people should come and, in particular, Ukrainians of foreign origin, Ukraine and 120 days without a written invitation and visa, and this State should contribute, I would like to ask: why, in the stage of preparation and introduction to the discussion and to the stage of discussion, to this day, which prevented you from agreeing that there would be no alternative bill and that there would be only a bill and that it could be voted today? That's what kept you from making a deal, because, in principle, they're telling you what to do now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u72	Well, you see, this bill was designed not only by me, but by a pretty large copyright team and obviously this group, well, didn't know that there was a bill out there. I think it's better late than never. And we can do this even today, but on the condition that the amendments provided for in our law, the appropriate committee of profile promises to take the second reading into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u73	Oily Boris Ilchi, please. The next is Kafarsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u74	Thank you. Dear reporter, how do you think you're gonna identify ethnic Ukrainians in the states? Yeah? I think we should do an educational work first, remind those Ukrainians who live in other states that they're Ukrainian. Or follow the formula of an ancient nation, when a Ukrainian mother, whoever the father is, is already Ukrainian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u75	Well, the educational work and the legal definition don't conflict with each other. I think so. The main thing is to get man back to his roots. Our bill defines more liberally one of the lines of membership of Ukrainian ethnic origin. Should this be done only on the mother’s side? Well, it's an issue. This may be discussed at the second reading stage.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u76	Kafarsky Vladimir Ivanovich. Next, the Unburned One.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u77	Mr. Eugene, are there two bills on matters relating to the civil nation, the political nation, because it is impossible to write a law in which Ukrainians living abroad are introduced into the concept of the Ukrainian political nation? That's the first question. And the second question is, is it worth putting in law a position that can move on indefinitely because there are different people and different people who can use these things? And third, how do the Ukrainians benefit from the law that they would like to adopt children born in Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u78	Well, in our bill, it's not about the political nation, it's about the ethnic nation, it's about the ethnic Ukrainian origin. Perhaps there was a question about other indigenous nations of Ukraine. This can be further developed at the stage of second reading. As for the adoption aid, our bill provides a comparison of the diaspora Ukrainians to the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u79	Insomnia Boris Yakovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u80	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine", the city of Kiev. Dear reporter, I am looking at article 6 of your bill, and it says here that the basis for gaining Ukrainian status as an adult is, if not ethnic. But tell me, please, if people, and you've talked about it, live outside of Ukraine for a long time and feel like Ukrainians, but they don't have the word "Ukrainen" anywhere in the document as in Western countries, and there are no witnesses, for example. It is also known that in the Soviet Union, even ethnic Ukrainians were not always identified as Ukrainians during the census. And we know that, it's in a number of areas that border Ukraine. So these people are ethnically Ukrainian, but it's hard to prove to them. And so we're going to lose, well, our, indeed, fellow Ukrainians and Ukrainians as Ukrainians. In general, I certainly support this law because, fortunately, there is no dual citizenship in Ukraine, we should also recognize our relatives as Ukrainians. But it's a very confusing problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u81	If you've noticed, there are pretty liberal positions in our version of the law that relate to what witnesses can find in both the territory of Ukraine and the diaspora. Well, I'm sorry if the Ukrainian realized he was a Ukrainian, it's almost impossible for something to happen. Moreover, no one forbids the right people in the established countries to record their nationality as they see fit. So there's both national, and there's ethnic, and there's testimony, and it's giving a pretty broad perspective for foreign Ukrainians to acquire the diaspora of this status.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u82	Zarubinski, please, last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u83	Thank you. Please, Sergey Shevchuk, have a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u84	Turn on the Shevchuk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u85	Thank you so much for the word. Dear reporter, if you have touched on an international subject, you should probably know about the principle of symmetry that exists in diplomacy. Please tell me that one of these laws provides for the right of foreign diaspora to enter Ukraine unattendedly and indefinitely. Do you think that Ukrainians who live in their country may likewise be entitled to a visa-free trip, such as to the United States, Canada, or Argentina? Are you aware of the principles of discrimination against Ukrainians and Ukrainians in Ukraine? Or maybe just these projects are expressions of some kind of state-of-the-art, if you can use this term, one of the factions of which you're here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u86	I don't agree with you on state-of-the-art issues. Because the Ukrainian diaspora lives in Russia, Kazakhstan, Australia, and elsewhere. Indeed, the principle of symmetry in the bill is not provided for, nor are such principles foreseen in the absolute majority of the relevant laws cited by Deputy Ostas. The essence of this law is to make Ukraine attractive to people who represent the Ukrainian diaspora and to make them cling to Ukraine both culturally and economically. Thus, an asymmetric principle is foreseen, as is the case with many laws. I want to remind you of a Romanian law that almost half of Bukovina wants to move into Romanian citizenship without any symmetry. It seems to me that we should also work in this direction as stipulated in both laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u87	Thank you. Please be seated, time is running out. Let's move on to the discussion. The word is given to Karmazin Yuri Anatoliovich. The next school. We're discussing two bills now, both of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u88	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear people of Ukraine! The question is whether a law that is now proposed on the legal status of Ukrainians and another law on the status of Ukrainians living outside the country is needed. I think that's the kind of law that's needed. Speaking of the advantages of a bill, which is what we need to do today, to choose from two, which is better, I would like to remind you, at least, that the Ostrash Bill, Bondarenko, was introduced and introduced on 4 July 2002, the second bill was introduced on 27 December 2002. I'm paying attention to these dates because they're talking about themselves, there's a six-year difference. And in previous sessions of the Supreme Council last year, these bills have already been initiated by Mr. Ostas, we know about them. Therefore, speaking of the need to adopt these bills, I would like to point out that it is positive that a bill of residence in Ukraine for a person who is a foreigner is allowed up to 120 days a year without a written invitation and visa; that he has the right to a visa for temporary stay in private or service periods up to 3 years without any invitation from the Ukrainian side. But at the same time, I'd like the project to get rid of what is: the reference in the preamble to article 12 of the Constitution, where the Ukrainian State is contributing to the return to the ethnic homeland of Ukrainians living outside. First of all, article 12 of the Constitution doesn't say that. And secondly, do these ethnic Ukrainians, who have become part of the will outside Ukraine, want to go back to the Ukraine that we leave for our descendants today. The second question. The question of whether the terms are used correctly, or whether it's a normal legal technique, where it's better, where it's in the law. In my opinion, article 1 of the Ostrich Project is the term "cultural self-awareness." What is it? When there were examples of 15 percent of Ukrainians living in the Far East, I want to say, "No, that's not true, there's 70 percent of Ukrainians living there, they're written by Russians, they're artificially raised," and Ukrainians need to know. About the Republic, Ukrainians need to know that even in Stalin's time, they opened up to 60 schools in Ukrainian in the territory of the Russian Federation every year, and they need to know about that to Ukrainians who don't know the true story today. Therefore, honourable national MPs, I would like to adopt the Ostrich, Bondarenko bill in the first reading, and the Gournik and Jovtak bill to take into account and thus make them all the authors of this bill, because these bills are not conflicting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u89	Andrew Schlell. Next Yavorowski. Yavorowski, please. Kirilenko's next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u90	Dear Parliamentarians! The law that we are discussing today may frighten and warn many. Indeed, the Ukrainian legislators in this regard were very conservative and inconsistent in our diaspora over the past decade. Hobart once said very well that the conservator is the person who is too scared to enter a fight, but too fat to escape. This is probably how we behaved around the issue. Let's think about it first. First. All the things that our parents, grandparents have been through on this earth, who knows what it would've been like if you and I hadn't had a spare Ukraine there in all the other worlds. Surely we should bear in mind that these people have preserved their national identity, preserved our history, preserved our memory. We must be indebted to them. But how is this a commitment to meet them? I have been abroad many times, and I have heard from them the request that you do what you have to do to have either double citizenship, which is totally out of the question, because it violates our Constitution, or else do something symbolic for us, as it were, to benefit us from our relationship with Ukraine’s greatness. There would be a version of one that's kind of simple and accessible -- it's to make bilateral deals with those countries where there's a large array of our diaspora. But it's almost unrealistic, because how do we do it: make a deal with Russia, with America, say, with Canada, with Australia, where the most Ukrainians, and forget about Transnistria, or forget, say, the Kazakh array of Ukrainians? I mean, then we have to make deals with everyone at all. That's why there's only one normal version of the bill. I'm deeply impressed with this bill, but I'm a realist, and I want to tell myself right now if it's going to pass in our Supreme Council. It already has a lot of achilles fifths in it today, and there's a lot of things in that identification of Ukrainians. That's why I went up to this rostrum to convince you, first of all, that we don't have the right to go straight away from this problem, it exists. But I personally -- don't get offended by my authors -- I personally see the solution to this topic in a slightly different perspective and I will insist on it. I think the best option is to pass a law on immigrants from Ukraine. Then we don't just lock ourselves up on the Ukrainians themselves, but there will be a certain array, let's say, and the Russians, who have left in their own time, and the Jews, and so on. [[I want you to understand that.]] Then we will have no resistance to this law. Anyway, the main thing is that the Ukrainians -- it's clear that we're doing this for them -- but if we expand this national spectrum, I'm convinced that this law will go painlessly in the first reading and in the second reading. I support, once again, this bill, and I would very much like us not to be afraid of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u91	Veacheslav Kirilenko, faction of our Ukraine. You don't? The miner, please, Eugene. Reporter. None. Rephat Chubarov. None. Boris Bespali. He's refusing. Aren't you going to perform?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u92	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine." Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, for your word. I'm asking you not to joke anymore, I'm not giving up my word, because I consider this bill to be extremely important, just like my colleague Vladimir Yavorowski. And the first question is why it's needed. First of all, there is no dual citizenship in Ukraine, as in some other countries. This means that people who have left Ukraine have lost legal contact with it to some extent, that is, this law is a complement and a duty. But there are problems that have already been discussed here, and the problem one of which was discussed by Yuri Karmazin, and others said, is that in the Soviet Union and in the Russian Empire before, ethnic Ukraine is not always written by Ukrainians. And that comes out of the problem, and then to prove it through the witnesses, that's trouble. We should not, as a Ukrainian state concerned about the fate of its fellow countrymen, translate it into themselves, so the concept of identifying Ukrainians is a key concept. There are other problems, for example, what kind of project to take as a basis. The author of the second bill, Jovtak and Gournik, was a little easier because they had a pretty good bill of Ostas, Bondarenko and others. And I think that's why they've done some things, five priorities that weren't in the basic bill. At the same time, there is still a notion of a copyright priority, when the bill is still being tabled, there are certain motivations here that drive me personally in favour of the first bill. The proposal is, therefore, to take the basis of a bill that was introduced and reported today by Igor Ostasz and from another bill to take substantial positions. Now with regard to the proposals of Vladimir Yavorowski, who impresses me very much, the law on immigrants from Ukraine. It's logical, because we have the Immigration Act in Ukraine and it's perfectly logical to supplement it with the Immigration Act, but there will be such a principle when the best is the enemy of the good, and as long as the sun goes down, so the dews of the eyes will eat. No one forbids us after we have enacted the law, well, whether it's a diaspora Ukrainian or a foreign Ukrainian, here we can discuss by name, then take up the law on migration from Ukraine, which may eventually be absorbed sometime in the future. But today we have no moral right to postpone the adoption of this law that millions of our fellow countrymen await outside Ukraine. And I think we're going to take advantage of our right now and we're going to adopt this very important bill. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, the time taken to consider the matter is exhausted. The decision is likely to be made in the next session. Is there no objection? Let's move on to the question of "Variance." I'd like you to put on the board of those who signed up for the "Virgin" speech. We've got an hour on this. People's MP Gurov, People's Landing Group. Prepare Yuri Carmazin. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u94	Vadim Gurov, 32 constituency, Krivbass, People's Landing Group. Dear colleagues! Respectable radio audiences! For the past week, we have practically done the work of the Supreme Council under the auspices of ecology, ecology and once again ecology. There was one hearing, another hearing, a very reasonable one, in my opinion, decisions, but with them at the root, I'm not quite agreeable as a producer and a metalsmith. And yesterday's vote on the issue of deductions, 70 per cent on mining, metallurgical and chemistry, for example, did not find the right response. I think it's just not quite what we're doing yet. I want to say this. We've been talking and investigating a lot lately. Let's talk about how bad, how bad the environment is, how everything is smoky, how the standard of living is falling. And what I'm saying is, let's take a look at the root! What prevents us from making a normal environment? The question is as follows. As Kuzma says Prutkov, look at the root! Who is most harmful to nature? I mean, it's a mining complex, it's chemistry, it's a cement industry. These are the enterprises that are now working more heavily on old technologies. It would appear that we and the cards were in our hands when we determined the case. You see, there's been an experiment for two years, and there's 70 percent of the contributions went to address those consequences. And the metal mill Ilyicha, Criostall, Zaporoztal, moved very far, and we talked about it on the Supreme Council yesterday. However, the experiment was over, and almost all the money that needs to be spent on the environment went to other things. I completely disagree with the opponents who say that we need to concentrate, give them to the central authority, the fund to be set up, and only after that will we have to make a big request. I think that's a false theory. Therefore, first of all, I would like to address all the deputies, at the next session we will consider this issue, which we will resolve. We will not solve serious technical issues - all the other activities that we believe are necessary - are all useless activities. You can't fix the environment with slogans! And to do that, we have to invest some money in technology. If we do not do so, we will have little change in this matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u95	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Harmash.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u96	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", the Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Mr. Head, the people of Ukraine! I am now addressing you in connection with the enormous threat that has been placed upon the implementation of the State Budget of Ukraine, adopted for 2003 and the budgets that will be adopted for as long as the State of Ukraine exists. The threat is that the state gradually loses its state ownership under hidden privatization schemes facilitated by the decisions of Ukrainian courts of commerce, through corrupt people. The last example of this is that on January 15, 2003, the stockholders' congregations of the Accretatnafti AT, where 43 percent of the shares were owned by the state, gave the authority to appoint the director of the observation board first and then the associations of the representative of the Tatar side. Our share in the Cremencucci oil industry and the U.S. company was estimated at no less than 150 million U.S. dollars. Count the number in your bracelets. What happened? The ruling of the Poltava District Court of Justice did not satisfy the Office of the Attorney General's Office's request to cancel the payment of the ZAO's shares by securities made through offshore companies. Because of offshore companies called "Siagroup" "Amrustracing." Unfortunately, what we warned about here happened when the so - called majority was formed in Parliament. This is about losing the state of strategic enterprise and controlling the state. So I'm asking you to ask Attorney General Piscoon to file a criminal case against this fact first. Secondly, I ask you to return to the system of functioning of the courts. And in order for this fate to fail to meet the "Qurtatnaft", which pays $1 billion a year, it is necessary not to allow plans to be made for new privatizations who are behind the faction, to be covered by a faction led by the Head of the Presidential Administration. I'm addressing President Leonid Kuchma. Leonide Kuchma! Stop, please! Ukraine must remain after you too! It doesn't matter who's president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u97	National Deputy Garmash, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Get ready for Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u98	Despite some warming in recent days, Ukraine continues to experience an extremely tense situation with the warmth of housing, cultural institutions, health care and educational institutions. Cold, and often hunger, in apartments, dormitories, schools, schools, kindergartens, hospitals, children, students, students, sick, disabled persons, elderly people. The number of colds and other diseases is rising, mortality. In late 2002, the Socialist Party of Ukraine conducted a demonstration of warmth throughout Ukraine in our homes. The goal was to support people, to draw their attention to the fact that they cannot sit in cold homes and apartments! We have to fight for our rights! In addition, at specific figures, we have tried to prove to Kabmina, the district administrations, that 40 per cent of energy enterprises are being deceived and counted by the population. However, they do not draw conclusions from this. Prices and tariffs on utilities are not decreasing, but they are increasing, and the methods of combating the population are increasing. The extreme heat and hot water situation persists in the Yellow Waters, in Margance, in Nicola, in Pavlograd and in the Dnepropetrov region. In the Kirovograd region, the population remembers warm and hot water as a fairy tale. In the district centre, the temperature regime in the houses, the facilities are not higher than 13 degrees Fahrenheit, the hot water is not available; in the cities of Svetlovodsk, Alexandria, Dolinska and others, enterprises, mines, sugar plants are closed down, to which all the infrastructure of cities and towns has been attached. Not only do people lose their jobs, but they lose their heat, their water, their energy supply. This is even the case in Lugansk, where coal is mined so hard. In a number of areas, the area is not only hot but also cold water. People in the district centers have long forgotten about it and have been forced to build roughshoes, fix boilers, bourgeoisies, and take the chimneys straight out into the streets. This is the situation in most regions of Ukraine. It feels like there's been a war on Ukraine. And in this difficult time, our President, instead of getting into these problems, forces the executive power to bring about order, change the situation for the better, spends his resources to prove everything that, as the famous song said, "And in the rest, the beautiful Marquis is all good." The traffic in Kiev is blocked for several hours. Thousands of people are forced to walk into the cold for a few hours to get home in their affairs only because the President is opening a Christmas tree at that time, spending several million on the useless, residing in the liaison offices greeting cards with the New Year. He's obviously using Mr. Medvedczuk's congratulation scenario for all of us with New Year's in an informal setting: no tie, in a modest, very modest home environment with a fireplace and a dog. We'll know how sweet, how touching. The people appreciated your strengths, Leonid Danilovich. For example, in Sevastopol, the city council decided to assign Kuchma the title "Honorable Citizen of the City of Sevastopol Hero". Why don't other cities take on this endeavor, and set up monuments in the cities. Shame on such heroes of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u99	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party, prepare for Nechiporuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. I have the commission of the faction of the Socialist faction of Ukraine after the parliamentary hearings on the agri-industrial complex to make a statement. Over the past decades, the ruling regime has consistently pursued policies to destroy Ukraine’s agricultural potential. The newly discovered owners, with the goal of proving the inability to have collective forms of farming on the ground, quickly and consistently reduced the village's supply of energy, fuel and oil materials, technology, mineral fertilizers, and plant protection products. For peasants, the system of granting credits is essentially eliminated, and the long - term lending of farmers is not part of their plans at all. Qutsamian agrarian reforms have actually led to the collapse of agriculture and the Ukrainian village. Disdain for the village, for the man who lives and works in the village, has become the norm for the President and for the ruling call, price distortions, the lack of a state of fundamental importance to influence the efficiency of farming in the agro-industrial complex of the country has resulted in enormous losses. Even those farms that worked under difficult conditions, but effectively, last year proved to be disastrous. The earth is experiencing special damage. More than 2 million hectares of dry land in the western and central areas of Ukraine have become unfit for farming, high acidity is becoming normal, and calcium and the allocation of public funds to this agroprotector is not foreseen. Only 500 acres [500,000 ha] of irrigated land, virtually destroyed irrigation systems in the Hersonian, Odessa, Mikolaivian, Zaporozhye regions, and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The reality is that in the years so-called village reform, the ruling regime has turned a powerful, economically strong agro-industry complex of Ukraine into bankruptcy. Without it, the country is on the verge of a national disaster. The Socialist Party and its parliamentary faction require the President and the government to stop the destructive reforms in the countryside, such as those leading to the total collapse of agricultural production. We consider it necessary to regulate the internal market of the country, based on the product produced by the Ukrainian farmer. It's the honor of the state, its leadership to do so. To this end, a guaranteed national subsidy for grain, meat, milk, flax, and sunflower production is required. We must all remember that with the destruction of the village, Ukraine will be destroyed, for the village was and is a cradle of the nation, its culture, and its civilizations. We must put an end to Ukrainian politics once and for all, leading to the loss of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u101	Vladimir Nechiporuk, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Get ready for Polishku.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u102	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vladimir Nechiporuk, 194 constituency, Hmelničina, faction of the SDPU. Statement by the parliamentary group of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with interparliamentary relations with the Republic of Iraq One of the most pressing problems that the politicians of the world are solving today is whether or not to be at war in Iraq. And in view of that, the Supreme Council of Ukraine should clearly define its principle position in solving this problem and make everything possible and impossible to prevent this war for the following reasons. First of all, war is a huge unwarranted human sacrifice. No one can predict how much blood will be shed, how many people will die today in their dealings with Iraq. There is no problem that requires millions of lives to be sacrificed. Secondly, Ukraine is a unique state in the world that voluntarily gave up a huge nuclear arsenal. In making this historic decision, we thought that international relations and the level of democracy had reached such a level of development that aggression by one State was virtually impossible in relation to another, because the world community had all the means necessary to prevent any aggression. In this case, the decision to start a war against an independent state, which means to live or not to live for millions of people, is made by two people: George Bush and Tony Blair. It's not democratic at all, it's contrary to international standards and it's a threat to global security. Third. No one can predict how many nations will be involved in this conflict, what types of weapons will be used, and what the consequences will be. One possible consequence is an ecological disaster, since much of Iraq’s territory is covered by oil wells that will be turned into burning torches in wartime, and millions of tons of various harmful substances will be thrown into the atmosphere. And given that there is a natural imbalance on the globe today, various natural disasters, which still cause enormous damage, take the lives of millions of people, will become evident that the consequences of this war cannot be predicted, not only directly in the war zone, but also throughout the world. It will also set a precedent for one or two leaders to decide on the start of a war against one of the nations of the world and to have virtually unforeseeable consequences. And since Bush has declared the entire evil of several countries, war can be protracted. Insolently concealing the noble goals of the fight against international terrorism, the United States bombed Afghanistan in search of Ben Laden, and Ben Laden was never found. In Iraq, weapons of mass destruction will be sought, although it is widely known that no one has provided sufficient evidence of its existence in Iraq, not to mention its intentions. In Ukraine, they were looking for evidence of Iraq's sale of Colchuga systems, and they didn't find it either. The question is, where and where will they continue to search for the United States without adequate evidence of what they are looking for and what methods will be followed. Above all, it is clear that such searches will necessarily lead to a major global tragedy, if not a disaster. In view of what has been said, we suggest that we give urgent consideration and address to the parliamentarians of the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u103	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u104	The proposal to set up an interparliamentary group on a global scale to ensure that, at the direction of the parliaments of the world, military conflicts with violations of international standards are not resolved.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u105	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u106	The Parliament of Ukraine should initiate the creation of such an organ, taking into account its uniqueness. Wait a minute! By refusing nuclear weapons, which is an unprecedented example of the development of an international movement for eliminating the very possibility of aggression in international relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u107	Thank you, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u108	And this parliamentary group should start its work by developing urgent and action-oriented means to prevent war in Iraq. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u109	Mikola Polishchuk, "Our Ukraine" faction. Get ready for Malinowski. Do you refuse? Do you pass on the word to Yavorovsky? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, I have two regulations, I am number nine, and my colleague Polishchuk has given me the floor. I took this time to publish my open letter to President Leonid Kuchma. "Dear President! Either way, I have the moral right to write this letter because I was one of the most active participants in the declaration of independence both in Parliament and at the huge rally that I organized and led. We were with you on the other side of the barricade. I don't blame you, but I remembered, and I thought, if everything remained the way it was, you'd never jump above the director of the extraterritorial Uzhmash. I experience that there was a brief period when I believed in your attempts to become Ukrainian leader. It was at the time of the adoption of the Constitution on the background of your statements of ignorance as to what it was to build, of bilinguality, of the fact that the national idea did not work, that the sudden support of the constitutional postulates who founded the Ukrainian Constitution provoked the hope of a nation-led personality capable of uniting the efforts of the nation for rebirth. And the Chernobyl Movement and all the national democratic forces supported you then and me, too. We often met, discussed, and wanted to believe that you were ready for pro-Ukrainian politics, ready to listen not only to flattery but also to the bitter truth that you would really shut down the appetites of the oligarchs who had already entered the predatory taste. However, it soon became evident that you simply threw the constitutional bone to the patriotic forces in the form of articles on the statehood of language, national symbolism, so that in other articles you could take on more authority, which you appeared to be, and not to use for the benefit of Ukraine, but only to shape and preserve your post - Soviet Malorussian, essentially your colonial regime. What at least a presidential monopoly on the forces and governors of all levels has been born into is understood by every thinking Ukrainian. What about the kind of Ukraine we have today that millions of people who voted for its sovereignty 11 years ago wanted? At the beginning of independence, I publicly told people that we should suffer a little. We're going to form Ukrainian power, we're going to form a vibrant economy, and it's going to be like our Western neighbors. However, the Czechs led by Havel, the Poles with Valencia and Kwasnevsky, the Slovaks with Schuster, the Lithuanians with Brasauscas, the Estonians with Mere, the Bulgarians and the mini-country of the former Yugoslavia, who survived the bloody civil war, all entered the stage of stable development, approaching the better world standards of life, and the dishonored by the period of your reign of Ukraine standing on the side of the world roads like beggars and coverts. What did the world learn about us Ukrainians in the years of your presidency? What were they born here, but why didn't they want to live? And the rest is a disgrace! Corruption from the mountain to the bottom, not investigated by the killings of politicians and journalists, the pervasive scandal, Ukrainian innuendo in all countries, Major Melnick's films that have revealed to Ukrainian society and the whole world's horrendous cynicism, immorality and criminal cruelty of the Ukrainian, no! Yours! Governments. Your environment lies to you, minimizes the resonance of publishing conversations recorded in your office. You lied! In my village, the tractorist Vanjo showed me a self - imposed self - examination of your dialogues with Derkach, Bakai, Kravchenk, Azarov, Szczerban, quoted with a murderous comment. During the summer, I took an electric train from Montreal to Toronto. On the way, we spoke to a Canadian of Venezuelan origin. When he learned that I was from Ukraine, he thought for a moment, and then he went, "Where's Kuchma?" Where do journalists get killed and sell guns to Hussein? In the credibility of the records, Mr. President, few have doubts, and the records are creepy. So cynically, brutally, there is probably no recidivism in the cell. In such a country, it is frightening to live with everyone and your immediate family. All civilized countries have turned away from us because of you. We are perceived as a well-preserved post-Radians ghetto with a monarchy, hidden from people by immoral power, shadow economy, political censorship, corruption at all levels of society, corruption of government, outright contempt for the national interests of Ukraine and Ukraine, mass economic emigration and spiritual decline. These are the signs of your presidency, Leonid Danilovich! You enjoy the illusion of favoring you, Putin, but every Ukrainian already knows that you are counting on the last thing left in Ukraine as a pipeline, strategic industrial objects, and the rest of our freedom. It is clear now that in the glorious tragic history of our people you will get the city, not of the President-Builder of Ukraine, but of the Governor-General, namely, of gray, unspeakable, vengeful, small-culture and essentially of your anti-Ukrainian! The people of Ukraine and you are surrounded by only the Lakean environment and the greedy political and financial clans who will turn their backs on you after the election. You killed the faith of the Ukrainians in your own power, in your own state and democratic power. How can a politician cause greater harm to his people? So, as far as I'm concerned, you have one chance to reduce your guilt in front of Ukraine, to help Parliament accept the mature changes to the Constitution as soon as possible, and to announce the presidential election for the term. Take this chance, Mr. President. With the last crumbs to you as President Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u111	Malinowski Alexander Petrovich Next Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u112	Alexei Malinowski, Socialist faction, Cherkaschina Honourable MPs, voters! I want to stress the problem that affects the lives of hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian citizens, who are known to almost all but silent. There are various reasons for this. Some are silent because they are passive and are not used to defending their rights in the power structures, others because they are comfortable with the passiveness of the first ones, and they, by their silent consent, pinch their crumbs out of the pansy pie in the form of bribes, and others just feel like the masters of life, and with nothing to be accounted for, they get incredibly rich. The problem that I'm talking about is the problem of small cities in Ukraine, recently self-sufficient, having their own local economic base and a well-divisioned social sphere. As an example, City City is the 20,000th district center of the Cherkas region. As early as 8 years ago, the city had a self - sufficient economic base, a sugar - laminated combination, a manufacturing process that lasted almost 10 months a year, providing 70 percent of the local budget. The city's budget was filled with brick and beer factories, a construction and repair organization, Rajagrochem. It's a few thousand jobs. Today, these companies are not actually -- they're distraught, they're stopped, they're looted. Today, there is a farming company that has reduced production by 60 percent, and an oil plant that is artificially bankrupt, working with half a million losses. Thousands of people have lost their jobs. For a city of 20,000, it's just a tragedy, especially for young people. Today, there are almost 4,000 young people under the age of 18. What awaits them at the threshold of their own lives? Clearly, unemployment. It is hard to believe in the coincidence that businesses that have worked for many years and at the same time become useless to the people. Because the situation is the same in other small towns of Cherkashina and throughout the country. Surprisingly, all of this has been done with the silent consent of local council members, corruption, bribery, the inaction of the prosecutor’s office and the courts as a standard of living in Ukraine. Is it possible to think otherwise when, after such a destructive destruction of the city’s industry, President Kuchma of Ukraine appoints Alexander Ganjo, head of the local regime, as deputy to the Head of the State? Anatoly Vaškević, the new Head of the area, is conducting the same destructive policy. The eternal question: What to do? First of all, the problems of saving small cities need to be raised on a state level today. The organizational issue is outside the Cabinet of Ministers. I am addressing the heads of the regional governments of Ukraine, including the Czech government, Mr. Aloshenko, to accumulate suggestions on this issue. The socialists are ready to engage in this work. There is a need for transparent elections to the local councils, on a proportionate basis, to amend the Law on Local Self-Government, which will provide an active system of donations from local authorities at the national level. But the main thing to do is to change today's clan-oligaric system of power. Only after such urgent resuscitation are we. Ukraine, and so in all of you, honourable voters, exhale on full breasts. The base to solve these problems is the President of Ukraine Kuchma has to resign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u113	Ivan Sidorovich Boki. The next one is Kozakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u114	John Boki, the Socialist faction. I'm actually, like, a lot of people here know, from the sexts. But it is said that the country of Ukraine is large and a few years ago my brother, on the Fourth Colonel of Russian Aviation Valentin Juryovich Boki, discovered that the roots of my species are far and wide, somewhere 500 years ago, are deep in Volin, the village of Pecichvost of the Gorokhiv region. Yeah, we landladys actually. And it turns out that the wallowers know that. I got a phone call from Volina yesterday, and this is a very interesting fact. The governor of the district, the hero of the Ukrainian President, the French general, directed all schools to have four portraits of Leonidas Kuchma by January 26, one in the principal’s office, the other in the teacher’s office, the third in the corridor, and the fourth in the Ukrainian language and literature office, apparently to study the President’s language. [[I don't know why until January 26]] I mean, we've come to a very well-known station. I personally know this station very well, for example, since I went to the first grade for Josephus Vissaryonovich Stalin. And we had this adventure, and we had a portrait of Joseph Vissarionovitch Stalin hanging in our class. And one of the boys and I had a little disaster. And our teacher called him, put him in front of Stalin's portrait, and she said, "Ask Joseph Vissarionovich Stalin's pardon, Rudzkowski gave me an apology for what you've done to the great father of the nations." And the poor man asked. So what I'm saying is that this station will soon lead us to that, too. And she's already proving, she's already leading us to the point that our President doesn't know the extent of anything. I'll let you know in half a minute. Here's the President's order from January 9th. It's not for publication. He is dedicated to why? On the other hand, one more to open up to the existing three secret government telephone APCs. I'm finishing up now. Look, we've already spent a lot of money on him, he knows what: the wiretap system. We've already spent a lot of money on the equipment of various residences there, and so on, and now we want to keep other state secrets. From whom and from what? We've sold all our secrets to everyone. I don't think we should spend money on these things today when we have huge debts on pensions and wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u115	Did they announce it? And then the People's Deputy Stojko. Please, National Deputy Puzakov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u116	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! In my speech, I want to explain only some socio-economic problems in the city of Kirovgrad that cannot be solved without your help. The city of Kirovograd is the administrative center of the Kirovograd region, where 270,000 people live. The socio-economic situation, as a district center, is at a very poor level. The state of roads is catastrophic, a number of urban infrastructures in poor technical condition, and the financing of capital deposits to the city’s budget has been minimal in recent years. The city and district authorities of Kyrovgrad appealed to the Supreme Council’s profile committees, to the Cabinet of Ministers for increasing funding for the life support of the district center, but only to a small extent they were included in the 2003 budget. In connection with the celebration of the 250-year anniversary of the city, a programme for socio-economic development and construction was developed for 2003. To achieve this goal, it takes 32 million, 620,000 dollars. Of these, in the field of education, you have to take into account about 2 million dollars for the construction of school number 15 that was built early last century and is now an emergency, and there are more than 300 students learning in two changes. In the area of health care, it is also necessary to include at least 2 million dollars in the construction and boiler room of the hospital’s surgical corps, since it is the only facility in the district center where emergency medical care is provided daily and 24 hours a day. Every year, more than 4.5 thousand complex operational interventions are conducted in the hospital. The hospital is part of the public service of disaster medicine. 40 stationary beds. provide assistance to the Chaes disaster fighters and their families. In the structure of the hospital, district and student clinics, the city’s trauma station, which serves 40,000 people. In the area of municipal construction, there is an urgent need for additional funding from the State Budget for the construction of a second line of cleaning facilities, for the provision of a water supply system for the coastal part of the city, with the construction of an additional reservoir of 10,000 cubic meters, as two thirds of the city’s population are now provided with drinking water only 6 hours per day. Is there still a district center in Ukraine where water is served on a regular basis? It's impossible to solve these problems at the expense of the city budget, because no matter how difficult it is to finance, I'm addressing you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, and I hope that by marking the 250th anniversary of the city you will help us solve these important socio-economic problems of the city, for which you will be grateful to the citizens of Kirovgrad. My address, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, is to accept as a matter of law as a personal request to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u117	I got it. Thank you. National Deputy Stojko, faction of our Ukraine. And Mr. Cranwell passed on the note. He's passed on the word. I have a note. And now Cranwell's got to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u118	Thank you. John Stoyko, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukraine! This rostrum of the Supreme Council moved me to worry, worry, and worry about the irresponsible conduct of our powerless elite. The loudly advertised Year of Russia in Ukraine, which is to be opened by President Vladimir Putin, was to be opened at the end of January, began on the night of January 31 to 1, humiliating to the Ukrainians with massive Russian - speaking entertainment. Like Blue Lights, Carnaval Nights, KVK, but somehow Moscow, where "the snow circled, caught up, killed niggers" and so on. In short, the Ukrainians were shown a place on the reservation because of less - valuable television. There was also a preliminary prayer, but once again, it was only the representatives of the Moscow Patriarchy. This expansion of neoimper Russia makes us think about what will bring us the year to come. Because today the neighbour country is already the main player of our internal and external policies, virtually all Ukrainian strategic industrial objects devoted to Russian representatives under the tax conditions. Electronic media are controlled by the white stone, forcing us to look at the world through the prism of their glasses. The Russian business is in possession of the Ukrainian book market, resulting in the annual removal of more than 500 million dollars from our financial system. The Ukrainian authorities made a royal, truth, gift to Putin for his birthday, giving illegal gas transportation to our networks. And the best military bases in Crimea, Ukrainian church shrines - Kyivo-Pecherska and Pochaivska Lavra - are not ours either. And as a result, we already have information from the Forum news agency that the miraculous powers of the 17 righteous saints, including the powers of the Reverend Elijah Muromatz, have been handed over to the temple that is being built in Rostov-na-Don. If that's true, it's a criminal offense. That's why we asked the President to have Kabmina check the information published by the Forum immediately and to take steps to prevent such violations. Moreover, the player and the company do not have Russian language status in Ukraine. It was at this time of the Crusade that they wanted to destroy the Ukrainian language finally so that, as in First and Second, I mean Catherine, no one would mention that such a language existed. Russia’s actions in the face of a friendship and partnership agreement, on the equality of both sides, are intended to finally consolidate its presence in Ukraine. So now, more than ever, we need unity to defend our national interests. This year is going to be very difficult because of pressure from neighboring landings, which will force us to reevaluate our past, to go into the future forever together in the Euro-Asian Union. The testimony is yesterday's pressure and the training of Victor Blackomirdin and the defense and firing of the President of Ukraine. It can't stop us from getting angry.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u119	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u120	So, in summary, I would like to point out that over 350 years were Russia's years in Ukraine. It is time for Leonid Kuchmi and the leading ideologists to introduce Ukraine’s year in Ukraine. Let us work together, work with our neighbors, but on equal terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u121	Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction. Prepare Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u122	Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction, the Carpathians. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, colleagues, voters! Last night at the evening session, a bill was scrapped on the organization of farming conditions in a special economic zone called Carpathians. I'm sorry this was initiated by representatives of our Ukraine and Social Party. Why did they do so? Because the economic zone is designed to help eliminate the effects of catastrophic floods, to get our region out of depression. What is happening in it today? This is, above all, economic degradation. Industrial production has declined into tens and agricultural enterprises into sevens since 1990. More than 70 percent of food has been imported into other regions and countries. In addition to potatoes, bread, the level of consumption does not satisfy the minimum standards. Many Carpathian villages are once again like Czechoslovakia in the 1930s, with poverty, hunger, poverty. The dangerous environmental situation in our region was discussed last Tuesday in this room. Socially speaking, the Carpathians today are poor, destitute, sick people. Tens of thousands of them are disbelieving abroad, experiencing discrimination, insults, and humiliations for belonging to Ukraine’s destroyed power. The area has become a different coin in political experiments. In 1994 the SDPU(o) took responsibility for everything. The Earthlings evaluated the bear-surkiss clan. Today, he again made it to the top of his head. For the fight against corruption and professionalism, the human resources of the horde are actually being prepared for the next election. Ideologically, ethnic selfishness and national strife are imposed on Zakarpat. Under these conditions, the authority of the Ukrainian State falls, and trust in power is imposed on the centre of the trend, emigrant sentiments are spreading, many people change Ukrainian identity, engage in fictitious marriages, only to gain citizenship in neighbouring countries, because in Ukraine they do not see a life prospects, for the wealth is allocated to indigenous and visiting capitalizers, local fats, and the Kiev oligarchs. The center does not trust the provincial elite, sends its supervisors and supervisors to the most profitable areas. Throughout the hard history, the Carpathians suffered everything, but the regime, like today, is cynical, brutal, the ancients do not remember. And the only island of the real economy was a special economic zone, and the attack against it began. Some colleagues may have done this out of a lack of understanding of the situation, others of selfish interest, but I would ask, distinguished opponents, to rise above the group interests and think about the fate of this disadvantaged land. Where are we going, and what will happen to him? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u123	Thank you. Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction. Get ready for Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u124	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! Dear voters, who have asked me to speak with today's address, which I know listen carefully, I want to say to you: I speak when almost the entire government is present. It's for information. In the summer of 1999, in the town of Šostka, in the city of Konotapi Sumska, there was a remarkable crime of its cynical and massive nature, from the financial affair of a small enterprise called Invasport. This crime affected nearly 14 cities and settlements in the district of Suma, affecting the region of Chernigiv. According to law enforcement agencies, some 23,000 were injured. Citizens with a sum of about 42 million That's right. The city of Šostka and the city of Konotap of the district of Sumu was particularly affected, where the crime began. For example, the number of victims in the town of Šostka was nearly half the population of a hundredth - year - old city. Since it has been established that the crime of a small enterprise called Invasport in Sumska District was committed by the state registration of this enterprise, it has been granted State licenses through the distribution of unsightly advertising through public information and the State Security Service, which protected this enterprise, which has misled the population and caused it serious moral and material damage. That is, the State has become an accomplice to this serious crime. In order to protect the legitimate rights and interests of affected citizens, for example, in the town of Shastka, a public organization called for my help. Their point is that the criminal offence at Invastport is committed to gross violations of existing legislation in order to conceal the actual composition of a serious crime against people and the state and to relieve the perpetrators of the responsibilities that contributed to this crime by their actions and omissions. In the letters of the UN, it is said that the conduct of a criminal case impedes the performance of substantive unification tasks and is a gross violation of the rights of thousands of affected citizens. So three years after the tragedy, they were injured and still have not returned a single penny, even from their arrested property in Invasport. The Defence Association has repeatedly appealed to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine for specific alleged violations of a criminal case by the Attorney General's Office or referred complaints of a merger to the places where those persons who had been accused had been prosecuted or refused and refused a specific response. For example, on the last complaint of a merger with the Attorney General’s Office at number 257 of November 19, 2002, the Office of the Attorney General has no answer to the question so far. So please consider my statement to be a parliamentary request to Attorney General Stanislaw Piscoon on the appeal of the Defence Association regarding the violation and conduct of a criminal case involving the crime of a small enterprise called Invasport. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u125	Alexander Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Prepare Vernigori.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u126	Dear national MPs, dear voters! According to recent data, the number of complaints from Ukraine before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg is constantly increasing. This convincingly proves that the judiciary is no longer trusted by the people -- our citizens. It chooses signs of dozing bushmism, for which it is not the spirit and the letter of the law, but the interests of clans and oligarchic structures. Court decisions are taken, not according to the law, but by the way Queens are taken out of the official offices. Sometimes these instructions are so absurd that you give only a miracle of what you can call yourself a judge by making decisions, rulings, black by calling yourself white or vice versa!? A court in a democratic society is the last human hope for justice. How painful it is to be in the role of the party in a process that has been brutally trampled on by the cat of modern perjury! The voters say I can't win a case in court because I don't have the money for it. I emphasize, not to write a lawsuit, to pay a government fee, to hire a lawyer, but to get the truth in court, you have to give a bribe to a representative of Femida, in other words, to buy a decision. Why does this work? Because the judiciary in Ukraine from the branch of power has become an evil ostrich of mistletoe, which eats daily, sinks the tree of statehood. And the common urgency with all seriousness to ask the sacramental question: Who is the judge in our country? A major part of those who have been entrusted with making decisions on behalf of the state lately are yesterday’s militias and prosecutors. Quite often, those who retired served in the hard - hitting killing wards, huddled up at the shameless gathering of the D.A.I., or lost their psychological balance at work at the S.I.A. with the rabbits. Who doesn't know that today's M.E.S.S. is the custodian of bribery, a department that's infected with co-operation with criminal authorities!? However, our noble Ministry of Justice, the Supreme Council of Justice, is choosing the main personnel depot for the judicial corps from here! As Major Melnick’s films tell us, all of us are being watched by security forces, and now we are being judged by these magnificent eagles. Is there any other way in the world that the police, the police, the prosecutors become the ministers of Femida, would be a disgrace to the democratic state! Because in the world, it is believed that a person who has spent a long time dealing with charges can no longer be fair, and he has a stereotype of thinking with an incriminating bias. Such a judge cannot be objective. He remains a police officer, a prosecutor who sees a criminal in every person and, above all, the accused. Watching all this pile turn militias, prosecutors, into permanent, untouchable, sinless, I think it's all being done by someone with an evil mind. That's what our people see. Not so long ago, a number of party centers in Novograd Wallinska, U.S.A., took a strong and firm stand against having a judge appoint a former militiaman accused of bribery. The people shouted, but he was appointed. For example, the fact that judges make an oath in some way is that I end up loyal to the President, not before a higher legislature. Ukraine is included in the book of Guinness in connection with lessons.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u127	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u128	I'll be a minute, half a minute. I'm done. The book of Guinness was introduced in connection with the fact that independence lessons were taught, and there were 198 university departments that were preparing lawyers as much as there were anywhere else. Why, then, does the State not see to it that the graduates of these institutions have a system of judicial training? Is it not because the appointment of judges has also become part of a branched system of bribes? A person who has learned to receive them well knows who needs to be put on a paw to hold the office of a judge forever. A vicious vicious vicious circle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u129	National MP of Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u130	Dear colleagues and voters, we remember that before we did anything, everyone asked themselves what people would say and would not even say and think. And it was the harshest judge and the measure of action at last. The recent justification philosophy has become that close-up "we have." Who gave birth to him? First, we have the corrupting impunity of immoral power from top to bottom, and then we have a system that's built far on worse ground than a feudal fortification when the forts were working for the third cop, and now for the tenth. In the nimble woodsheds. The energy managers are looking at the governor’s mansion and are privatizing gardens, cherry trees, spices, reefs, ponds, and, in addition, fortifications. It's where the devil steals the moon. And it's not a Gogolian ghost that hides it in a bag, and modern electric receivers walk around the houses, tear down the poles and cut off the light into the crippled and the sick, and they take 7 bracelets, and it's not on these apparitions of the modern Vakula. That's impunity. A clear example of the immorality of authority is the clear distribution of subjects to their own and to strangers. If you have given yours and a million taxes, receive the title and rewards, the office and the Father’s. And Ukraine already holds first place in the number of awards for one of its own, and also in the number of generals, third and fourth academics. Now all of them, who had almost succeeded in a master's degree in the Santechnics, now a mere doctor of historical and philosophical sciences. Take the example of a domestic and no longer, unless you have a candidate for science or just a colonel in front of you. And it's all for loyalty and all for money. What about They're not poets anymore, they're not artists, they're not artists, because they're against power. Such morals give birth to a cult. The president announced the age of culture. What about the past? I got a hold of Governor's magazine, thought it was Russian, because what kind of governors do we have? Thus, each page of the five - and - six - year - old governors is familiar with the face. Where is culture and morality? On one page of such an overpriced edition, a whole class of schoolchildren can be provided with free textbooks. So where is morality, when the artist's talent is measured by his political preferences, when people are deprived of forests and nadars, factories and factories, and now the land, when steamboats are out, and they don't swim, so they want to sell them out. They're allowed to take a scrap of colored metals, and then, day and night, cemeteries and dwellings are robbed when peasants get grain for a penny and sell abroad for greens and teach their children there in foreign schools, in foreign schools, and today our schools for the common people are renamed today to general schools. Notice, even church-priest schools were, not institutions. Wonderful. When something is going down in our country, the battle is immediately declared through the decree, and when something else is going on in the sea, its reform is sure to begin. So we have both education and health care, social insurance, which have recently been recognized as the best in the world. That is why the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine seeks to change this immoral power to an honest one, beyond the fact that only under such conditions will life be better.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u131	National MP Anitchuk, Communist faction. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u132	Vladimir Anishtuk, Communist faction, the town of Odessa. Dear colleagues! Respectable radio audiences! Addressing this high-level parliamentary rostrum not only as a national deputy of Ukraine, but as the first secretary of the Odessa Committee of Ukraine, in view of the numerous facts of the grave violation of the Ukrainian Constitution, the constitutional rights of citizens by members of the Odessa District Police and the Odessa Region. Our young colleague, Andrei Polit, presented to us in his address on 15 January a picture of detention and arrest, as well as the mockery of the city of Nikolayev by the Odessa Communists. You won't call it barbaric. In addition, dozens of other Odessites were also searched for their apartments, the seizure of party documents, computer technology, mobile phones and so on in connection with the so-called Nikolaiev case. So far, employees of the Odessa city and the area for intimidation, or as they emphasize, have been calling out their offices for activists of the Company of Ukraine, participants in the “Resistance, Ukraine!".. In the Odessa region, in the city of Odessa, Kotovsk, Belgrade, Frunzovka and others, more than 100 communists and communists were subjected to persecution. The persecution of activists has begun since the last arrival of the President of Ukraine in Odessa. At the beginning of the picket campaign at the Odessa Food Technology Academy, where the President was to speak, 12 communists were detained, headed by the First Secretary of the Kiev Paradise of the Odessa Party, my consulting assistant. Then the police from the Primorski Paradise Police and the young men in the state destroyed all the picket banners, removed the red flags, and then detained the picket organizers. This is an Odessa democracy, by the way. After each picket of voters on the day of the session of the Odessa City Council for the presentation of the Primorski Rajotdepartment leadership, the police of the picket organizers are called to a meeting of the Primorski Court. By the way, another court will be held on 20 January for the organizers of the last session. the picochet of the last session of the Council. By the way, 20 numbers will be held at the second phase of the session. And I could give you tens of them. At the last meeting of law enforcement officials, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine very rightly assured the Odessites that he would order in the city of Odessa. The militia's district departments aren't doing what needs to be done. We need to open up resonance killings, fight banditry, racketeering, theft, and so forth. It is much easier to prosecute veterans and young people who, within the framework of the Ukrainian Constitution, are peacefully protesting against current power and unbearable life. Law enforcement officials must protect the rights of reprisals rather than violate them. Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, please consider my request to the Minister of the Interior and the Procurator-General of Ukraine for numerous facts of gross violation of the Ukrainian Constitution by members of the Odessa and Odessa District Police Departments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u133	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Get ready for Boris Ilchi Oliynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u134	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction, Kyiv region Dear colleagues and dear listeners, I wish to dedicate my speech to the spiritual and cultural aspect of modern Ukrainian-Russian relations. This statement relates to yesterday's meeting with our colleagues from the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation. Yes! Since the beginning of all, Russia has been a Eurosian deep and even a well-known Russian emperor, King Peter 1, and subsequent emperors have not been able to turn this Eurosian depth into a major European country. There is now a strong drift towards Europe, but Russia recognizes its Eurosian identity. Ukraine is working hard to prove that it is a European Power, which is linked to the need to change the mentality of the Ukrainian people. Has this always been the case in our national history? Let us recall at least the great Russian and Ukrainian writer Nikolai Gogol "Taras Bulba", there the Kazakhs died with words of gratitude to the Russian land and the Orthodox faith. I've recently taken into my hands a book of a modern Ukrainian publication with an interesting name for BMWH, and there you will no longer find the word "land of the Russians" and the Cossacks die for the land of the Cossacks. And an even more interesting fact. One of our associates from the Supreme Council of Ukraine brought me the composition of her son, a high school student in the Pecher district of Kiev. The National Conscientious Teacher had been asked to write a paper on Taras Bulba. And in this case, children are already writing that Andrew is a hero of the Eurowalker, and his old father, Taras Bulba, violated human rights when he did what he did and deserved to be hanged. Such transformations in the mentality of our children are taking place, so it is not surprising that the outcome of the Preyaslav Council is being reviewed, and that Bogdan Hmelnicki is such a figure of doubt in our Ukrainian history.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u135	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u136	And before that, maybe Vladimir Red Sunshine did not baptize Russe like that, and at that time she had to be baptized into Catholic faith.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u137	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u138	And I'm done. Dear colleagues! I call on you to do everything you can to preserve our Orthodox-Slovenian identity. Yeah, we're going to Europe, but no solution in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u139	Thank you. Boris Ilchi Olinik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u140	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We've seen everything in this world, but today's New Year's and Christ's Christmas, I'm sorry, exclusive, if not extreme. Such art preparation of salutes, fireworks and rocket shells can be compared to fragments of Storm in the Desert or the bombing of Kosovo and Serbia. The heavens were burning, the builders were shaking houses, the dogs were beating, the frontists were looking for shelters, and their brothers must have turned around in brotherly graves. And all this Sabbath was based on the crisis of economics and morals, poverty, unemployment, childlessness, the lives of pensioners, the shrinking of the spiritual sphere, education, science, medicine. It's no longer just a ruse and a jumble of new or double Ukrainians on Lisi Mountain, it's a brutal, cynical challenge to the whole community, saying that they know who rules and who hires in this independent country. He walks around the country, making salutations, morally, or physically, in the battle against fascist uncleanness. How long will we put up with these drunken feasts of impunity for the oligarchs and corrupts with their broods and herds? How long will we bear the images of our national and essentially human dignity on the part of thieves in the law? No one's against the holidays and their normal orchestra, but I'm against the walking around of this literal shooting that scared Americans can take for granted. Just give it to them! Then I turn to the President, the Supreme Council, the Kabmin, the Auditorium, to stop all the special forces and forces from doing so at night. And I demand that the cost of all these bloody entertainments at least in the past and the beginning of 2003, then it will be clear to everyone why the government is trying to eliminate even the petty benefits of the black people, the disabled and the second injured frontalists each year. After rephrasing Hemingway, I will ask: Who are the salutations on which? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u141	Honourable National Deputies, distinguished colleagues, in line with the calendar schedule for the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the fourth vocation, the final session of the session is concluded. At the close of the session, members of the government headed by the first Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mikola Janović Azarov, the Prime Minister is ill. Head of the Supreme Court, Head of the Constitutional Court, Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the National Bank, Head of the Court of Auditors. He named them all, didn't he? Allow me before closing the session to summarize some of our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u142	The word is given to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Volodymyr Mikhailovich Litvina.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-01-17-m0.u143	Honorable National Deputies, Honorable Fellows, Honorable Members of the Government, Honorable Representatives of the Judicial Branch, Honourable Journalists, Honorable Attendings and Guests of the Supreme Council! We conclude the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Fourth Convention at a time that is referred to by the people as “the sun has returned to spring. ” As I hope, and for you, my dear colleagues, I would very much like this expression to be fully applied to, and applied to, the Ukrainian Parliament primarily in terms of strengthening the constructive component and, at the same time, the friendly, I stress, the friendly atmosphere in the work, the relationship between factions and the national MPs. After all, it's a far cry from the notion of parliamentaryism, which in its best manifestations is the bearer and model of political culture and correctness, respect for commonly accepted democratic procedures, balance and responsibility in approaches, tolerance and ability to compromise wisely. As I see it, my honourable colleagues, there are at least two ways in which the Supreme Council of Ukraine exists, based on the principle of least resistance: to go, where and how it will be brought out on the latrines or to demonstrate a permanent front about the President, the government, to reject and deny everything. First and second, it frees us from the need to think deeply and to act responsibly. It's obvious that both of us don't fit. Moreover, it is strongly opposed. Ukraine’s legislative body will weigh as much as it will appreciate itself, how much it will be able to ensure this weight in the eyes of society by its work, political maturity, and responsibility. The two sessions that we have attended give us reason to believe that we have drawn very close to such a vision, to such understanding and to the realization of the role and to the calling of parliament. Let me remind you that we were able to overcome the reefs and the mills of the first organizational period, much faster and in comparison to the smaller losses, when we formed the Supreme Council of Ukraine in organizational terms. We had enough intelligence, political will, and responsibility to avoid being trapped in a crisis - stricken state, and then to make up for a significant break in the legislative process. You've been given detailed information and analysis materials on the summation of our work, so I'm not going to tell them. But there's a particular thing that you just can't forget. From the beginning of the work of the Fourth Council, we have adopted in the final edition more than 160 laws, or one and a half times more than the two sessions of the previous third call. During the second session, there were eight parliamentary hearings and five days of government dealing with relevant issues of domestic and foreign policy. In this regard, I would like to stress in particular such measures, which were previously perceived as essentially internal and almost unorthodox attributes of parliamentary wakes, are gaining more and more meaningful meaning and social resonance. Parliamentary hearings are poured out in a truly nationwide conversation with highly professional approaches to problems, civil concerns, and pains to solve them. That is what I would call the discussions about the harsh and painful problems of the village, the fate of the land, and nature. It's not just showy, it's natural. We must resolutely and irreversibly renounce ritualistic reform spells, unendingly repeat the usual generality of the people’s benefits, and specifically and objectively work for the interests of the individual, and see him, according to every decision that is made. And in the broad scope of the legislative process, we have to say that the problem of the legislative process, we've come to the fore here in terms of social orientation. Of course, it is equally clear that we should see other aspects of our work that do not add to it. This is also a lack of systemism, a lack of synchronization of the legislative and executive branches of government and between the needs and demands of life, the economic and social development of the state. But beyond that, and in that, I think, the main summary of the last session -- we are increasingly learning to make serious and responsible conclusions. It is truly a precious experience that is hard to overestimate. All of us know how difficult it is and how difficult it is to give, how difficult it is to deal with, how difficult it is to deal with, how hard it is to listen, hear and understand each other, how it is to get over yourself, how it’s ambition, where it’s needed, where it’s needed, where it’s in position, and where it’s concerned. We learn not to fail the golden and already tested rule: to help the opponent save his face, to leave him room for political maneuver and a calm, mindful dialogue, not to trample into mud and dust, to take away everything he can. Let us keep in mind that he who is tired and delighting in throwing mud at others loses ground under his own feet because he digs at what he stands upon. A person who acts solely on the principle of everything or nothing is capable of anything but conflict. We have every reason to say that there is a growing awareness that such approaches are fruitless and unsuspecting. That's why we didn't go beyond the fatal limit, beyond which there was a dead end, a deaf angle, a marginalization of a part of the constituency, the intransigence and irreversibility of the destructive processes in Parliament. Although, frankly, we often got dangerously close to that limit. And you know the last example, God forbid it happens again. In parliamentary practice, it has become customary to informally classify sessions according to their main content and orientation. Just mention, for example, the codex session. The session that we are concluding today, I would call, at times, political growth, the definition of different political structures of Ukrainian society for a long term. And that's good, although it's clear with the amendments made by the next presidential campaign. And, of course, it was a period that corrected the common and binding thesis in Ukraine that we have thinking politicians and responsible parliamentarians even more rare than saints. The opening of the second session in September focused on determining essentially the nature and vectors of the country’s development. I'm sure we're going in the right direction. In my view, the most valuable achievement of this period has been the ability of the Supreme Council to regulate itself. The main motive was the State-Social Interest, which put in the background the forces of personal, corporate or other nature. In a concentrated form, profound changes in Parliament’s activities, and without exaggeration, the mentalities of the people’s deputies materialized in the consideration and approval of Ukraine’s National Budget for 2003. And today we need to think first and foremost about how to ensure that this budget is implemented, how to raise the revenue of the budget. Generally speaking, John Frank said that the second session became a school of political thinking. I would like to emphasize that in particular. Although we still need to work very well to make this school permanent and effective and, above all, to break free from the patterns, clichés, and stereotypes that some would like to replace political thinking. In general, and hopefully, honourable colleagues, that you will agree with me, and in this, we have a qualitatively new basis for improving the work of the Supreme Council and for establishing a civilized relationship between the legislative and executive branches of power, and the main one for internalizing a country, a country where people will be mentioned not only in the pre-election races. But I emphasize that only the basis on which different political configurations can be built and can vary depending on specific circumstances. Parliament is a fairly precise increase in society, and from such a living organism and changing matter, it should by definition reflect the moods, interests and expectations of the widest and very unlike in its parts of the human community and not simply reflect, but not give up, precede and follow them, compress all these rigid schemes, into a crossbed of monotheism, fetishize the notions of the majority or opposition, transforming factions and interfractional unifications into something like a closed totatarian sect on the right side of waste, futile and harmful. Since the adoption of the laws, there has been no one among them who would satisfy all of them, but there is a major mandatory criterion common to the legislators, regardless of their political orientation -- it is a benefit, a benefit to the state and society, a nation to which they swear. Our job is to create laws that the Ukrainian community understands. Any plans, intentions and practical actions are logical, appropriate and justified until they break away from this objective base, that is, from man. We should think as the common Ukrainian thinks. We often use an average Ukrainian term. A normal family. And it's enough to do that. Otherwise, they're evil. Everything else is evil intrigue and politics, which, unfortunately, we also have to see and see. These walls were and will be right and left, centrist and extreme. And in this variety, the contradictions, collisions of views and positions, the source of energy and the efficiency of Parliament, the dynamics and the effectiveness of its internal development, the processes of self-regulation and self-improvement. The important thing is that all of this doesn't turn into a goal and an element that sweeps away everything, from the fundamental principles of parliamentaryism to human order, to the elementary standards of morality and ethics. I mean, if it's easier, our views and positions, and over-practical actions should not be more right and not more left, and generally no more common sense. After recent storms, we have calmness and understanding in and outside the session room. I could say that the country stopped shaking in large numbers. But all of this is still very quick and needs to be secured and deepened. The positive processes in the parliamentary environment should become irreversible and clearly, our consolidation and productive work should not, in any case, be the object of trade, but more of blackmail. I say this by looking at the 4th call of the Supreme Council is still a short one, but not a simple one. Especially with new tasks in mind. They're expecting both large-scale and complex, given that the next session will already be marked by the nearness of the presidential election. And there's one thing I want to emphasize in particular. The Supreme Council should not only become the main and exclusive instrument for implementing constitutional reform but also the real centre of legislative power and political life with broad powers and responsibilities. All of us need more than just to prepare for this work and this role. The matter must be taken seriously. There are the first prerequisites. The Supreme Council, and in this important outcome of its second session, formed a temporary special commission to draft laws amending the Constitution of Ukraine. Finally, we have to translate the conversations into practical work. I'd like to ask you, dear colleagues, to do so. During parliamentary vacations, as far as it is possible to distance ourselves again, as far as possible, from all that was available in the sessional hall of emotional, spontaneous, hot, intransigent, and to draw lessons and conclusions from this and to crystallize the seeds of beneficial experience that will be useful for the next session to the perspective of our activities. This time, after all, should be used to communicate with people, to study the situation on the ground, to accumulate the moods of society, and to include them in the legislative work as much as possible. I don't think we're going on vacations, we're taking a break for district work, for business to talk to voters. In this sense, Parliament is either the most sensitive and accurate barometer of the general moral and psychological atmosphere, the aspirations and aspirations of the people. After all, his indicators may not be pleasing to us, but this is real life, objective data, and we, parliamentarians, are obliged as the most accurate barometer of Ukrainian society to provide work according to how this barometer shows what action he requires of us. Let us be guided by great old wisdom: In order to pursue sound and right policies, we need to love people. I'm sure we all have that quality. I hope and believe, and what I believe there, I'm just convinced that we can be at the height of that requirement. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] Honourable National MPs, distinguished guests, distinguished voters, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, the next third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin at 10 a.m. on 4 February this year. I declare the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the 4th call closed. [[The Moon of the Hymn of Ukraine]] .
