ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-23-m0.u1	Good morning! Is the microphone working? Good morning, distinguished national MPs! May I have your attention, fellow officers? Visitors and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! I'd like everyone's respectable colleagues to sit down. I think we're starting a good tradition that we're starting a meeting with the National Anthem. Now, let's move on to our work, I'm asking you to give me information about the registration of national deputies. Judging from the audience in the hall, I think we have good reason to open the morning session. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues! Today is the birthday of the People's Deputy of Rudkovy Dmitry Alexanderovich. Let's welcome him on the eve of New Year's Eve, we wish him every success. Please don't scream. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I will inform you of the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Ratushnjak Sergey Mikolaiovich, from the membership of the "Our Ukraine" delegation and the membership of the Ukrainian delegation. Dear colleagues! Schedule.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-23-m0.u2	Let's get the paperwork officially then we'll take a break. There are no official documents. Dear colleagues! I think you can talk to me without the megaphone, I can hear you. Dear colleagues! You have Tuesday's schedule, issues agreed upon at the Conciliation Board. Dear colleagues! Please calm down. It's being announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-23-m0.u3	If there are requests from two factions, I'll call it a day. Let me make an announcement then. Dear colleagues! Announcing to Review
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-23-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, we have announced the beginning of the debate. If he does. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Calm down! Dear colleagues. Leaders, please. Who's there?Oh, my God! Please calm down! I'm asking the leaders of MP groups and factions. Dear colleagues, I ask the leaders of the MPs and factions to gather in the office of the Chief of the Supreme Council now. Well, may I have your attention, dear fellows? Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues, I am, because we need to consider. I'd like to ask you a question. Please listen carefully. As long as we're looking for some compromise, some decision with the MPs. Well, calm down! Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen, I request the heads of the MPs and factions to meet in the Chief of the Supreme Council in the office. A break of 1 hour is announced. I'm asking everyone to sit down for this period and clean the Bureau table.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-23-m0.u5	Ladies and gentlemen. .deputies, there's been an announcement of a break for an hour. I invited all the leaders of the MPs and factions to gather to discuss this situation, to form a common position, a common approach. But it happened that instead of the leaders of the three factions of "Our Ukraine", the Yulia Block of Timoshenko and the socialists sent the authorized one, Stephen Ilkovich Cloud. I gave Stephen Ilkovich the Cloud. I said let's see if we can work on another bill right now. Look, look, look, look, look, look, look, look, look, look, look, look, I'll tell you what we agreed on, then we'll move on. But, reverends. Calm down. Dear colleagues! Anatoly Sergiyovich! You're a well-educated man, though you might want to stay for a while. show your kindness. Do not show that you are in the crowd, be a man!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-23-m0.u6	Just be human first, I'm telling you. Dear colleagues, this is how I suggested it. Well, listen, let me give you a word. I want to say it again. Dear colleagues, what we've all done is we've shown the level of bullets. Dear colleagues! There you go. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? You see how they say, they say I'm aging for my own good. And when someone else has the right to agitate for their own good, it's allowed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-23-m0.u7	Dear colleagues! Well, turn on, what kind of people are you? Dear colleagues. Then I'm going to call it a 12-hour break. But not to the ginsies, not even so honored, please gather in the office. Break till 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-23-m0.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, there's a recess in 17 hours. [[May I have your attention, please?]] The leaders of the MP groups and factions, I emphasize, I invite all the leaders of the MP groups and factions to the meeting. [[Well, if you'll excuse me.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-23-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, I'm forced to make an announcement. It is now taking place with the participation of representatives of all factions, including representatives of the faction "Our Ukraine", the bloc of Yulia Timoshenko, the socialists, and the Conciliation Council. There is a constructive dialogue. There's a 30-minute recess.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-23-m0.u10	Dear National Deputies! I'm asking for your attention. We can continue our work. Dear National Deputies! We can continue our work. Dear National Deputies! We can continue our work on the condition that conditions are created for this.
