ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:48]] Registered -404 404 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of Ukrainian National Deputies Vasiliev Hennaday Andriyovich, aged 50, Kirilczuk Eugen Ivanovich and Rybak Vladimir Vasilovich. Let's welcome everyone, wish us good health, success, including in parliamentary activities Ladies and gentlemen. Yes, it is. Listen to the announcement, please. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Ratushnjak, Sergey Mikolaiovich, into the membership of the deputy faction "Our Ukraine". I inform you, honourable national deputies, of the establishment of a parliamentary union in the Supreme Council of "Economic Ukraine", which included 62 national MPs. Myronenco microphone, insisted with motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u2	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people, respected fellow countrymen. Yesterday, a draft regulation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was introduced to the President of the United States of America, Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain, which provided for the protection of our citizens in Iraq. This item is on the agenda. I very much ask that this question be put to the vote, as circumstances so require. I'll give you a brief. On 4 August, a tanker was detained in neutral waters. "", all 21 crew members are Ukrainian citizens. Neither before nor after the delivery of the tanker, the Iraqi port of Umkasv was officially charged to crew members. Nineteen crew members remain on board in Iraq so far without a formal announcement, which is contrary to international law. Capita and the old man are in prison. The United States Administration in Iraq, the interim leadership of the coalition, has not yet provided Ukraine with official information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Although Ukrainians have been detained for two months.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u3	Thank you. That's understandable. Thank you. I'm going to put this motion to a vote. May I have your attention, please? Yavorowski, please, the faction of our Ukraine. Invite the national deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u4	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! I have to say this now, because in the next session, when we have a meeting, it's going to be late. The Komsomol Truth newspaper and many media outlets in Russia are literally addressing us. We belong in the Azova Sea of Duzla Island. Without any arrangements, the hair is pouring out, and literally in a few days, this island will become Russian. Here's "Comsomol truth" writing, giving an interview, one of the builders, saying, "We're on the island, we're on the frivolous hair. Then let him who says he is not ours." What's going on? No one's talking about it. The Russian press is talking about it, and we're not talking about it. It's an invasion of Ukrainian territory. Let this be my request to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Intrude immediately on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u5	Dear National Deputies! I want to inform you that I have given the commission to the Committee on Foreign Affairs to study this issue and make suggestions. If we need a response from the Supreme Council and in what form, then at the suggestion of the committees, we will determine that we have responded to this document. Please, Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction. Then Melniczuk Mikhailo and we'll be working, because we've got five minutes to break up. Hennady Josephovich is.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I want you to listen. I want to say something nice. I want on behalf of the Committee on Youth Policy, on behalf of the Supreme Council faction, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, and I think that later you will do on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, greet the incoming Teacher's Day with all the teaching of Ukraine and wish them to really sow good in our country, well-being, happiness and, of course, endurance in this very difficult time. With the Teacher's Day of all our countries.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, let's give it up for the teachers. [[Applause]] Mikhailo Melniczuk, please. Thank you for letting me know.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u8	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! We made a big mistake with you yesterday. Perhaps we have the courage to correct it today or next week. I'm talking about Bill 2491 on the status of judges to ensure conditions for the execution of justice. There are voices all the time, and all over Ukraine, courts are like that. As for the support of judges regarding the adoption of appropriate laws, we remain separate. We do not need to do this because we make the courts dependent on the situation in which they find themselves today. That's not enough money to pay, that's almost 30 percent of the budget needed to do justice in Ukraine, that's the wrong salary. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u9	Thank you. Gennady Josephovich, please. I think that's how we're going to go, that the Supreme Council is not wrong, but if there are problems, we're going to consult them by finding a coherent position in the right river. Please, Hennady Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u10	Dear Alexander Mikhailovich! I'm proposing to speak on behalf of the Supreme Council to the President of the United States and the Prime Minister of Great Britain with a proposal to detain us. Not our ship, but our ship, where there are 21 citizens. In principle, it's right that we care about the fate of Ukrainian citizens, but I think, well, it's not a royal thing, I mean, under the "King's" Supreme Council, to deal with such matters. There's the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there's a government, every day, almost every day, they arrest Ukrainian or non-Ukrainian ships, where Ukrainian citizens arrest our planes and all that. This must be done by the government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. You can make a protocol assignment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u11	Stay, please, and let's get to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u12	Dear colleagues! Since we started with diplomatic things today, I would also like to address you, Mr. Head, with one serious question. There is now a lot to be said about our ambassador, an extraordinary ambassador in Poland, and unfortunately we have no information like the Ukrainian national deputies. Since Poland is indeed a strategic partner for us, since we are working seriously on the path of European integration, this question is fundamental to us. So I would ask you on behalf of us, on behalf of the deputies, to contact the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and provide objectively reliable information about the events in Poland around our ambassador in this country. And one more thing before that, we know that we've passed a law on the service, where it's supposed that the appointment of ambassadors takes place after consultation with the Supreme Council, especially with the Committee on Foreign Affairs. So I would also ask that this issue be discussed with the new foreign minister to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u13	Thank you. I'm asking Alexander Zinchenko to study the proposal that just came from Igor Ostas, and to learn the relevant date information for the committees. If necessary, so will the MPs. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Yesterday we voted for the inclusion in the order of the day of the appropriate decision, which was urged by the national MP Mironenko, who was signed by all 13 faction leaders. With the insistence of the People's Deputy Mironka, I'm about to hear the text of that statement that they've been working on, it's got this normal look, I'd say. Listen, I'm going to sound it right now. And then you'll be appointed, dear colleagues. "The address of the Supreme Council. On August 4, 2003, the British Navy, which is a multinational force for stability and security in the Republic of Iraq, was detained by the Naftstart tanker flying under the flag of Panama with the Ukrainian crew on board. All 21 crew members are Ukrainian citizens. Before and after arriving at the Iraqi port of Umcastre, the crew was under armed guard without presenting an official charge that violates international law. The Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that Ukraine can expect your kind contributions to the solution of the fate of Ukrainian citizens who find themselves in an extremely difficult situation." This is a speech to the President of the United States of America, the Prime Minister of Great Britain. I would like to stress once again: since all faction leaders have signed and there is an insistence, I am voting to take a decision on this issue today, withdrawing from the Rules. Please make up your mind, dear colleagues. [[10:12:47]] For 249 Decision taken. I put to the vote a corresponding decision and a corresponding appeal, which I have just published. [[10:13:15]] For 266 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, if there's no objection, I'm going to announce a number of parliamentary inquiries. But then at 12 o'clock, we'll be working hard. Is there no objection? More than that, we have many questions and important questions. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. To the President of Ukraine, a group of national deputies: Demjochina, Bagrayev, Nikolayenka, on the announcement of the Herson region as a zone of ecological emergency. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:14:04]] For 230 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:14:23]] For 245 Decision taken. Anatoly Matvienka to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the baseless allocation of affairs and funds to ensure that the President of Ukraine visits abroad. All I have is a question: Why me? I'm voting on the request. [[10:14:54]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine for the use of response measures in connection with the violation of the constitutional rights of the Ukrainian People's Deputy, the first call of Slednev to work and the execution of judicial decisions, the verification of compliance with the law during the privatisation of the Donetsk State Metalworks. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:35]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies: Zubov, Pavlovsky, and others to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the repeated attempt on life and the dignity of the National Deputy Zubov in connection with his parliamentary activities and the use of measures to ensure the safety of the National MP. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:09]] For 175 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies: Cloud, Kirilczuk, Sas, only 11 National Deputies, to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the situation surrounding the Odessa-Broda oil pipeline project. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:38]] For-142 Decision taken. Stanislava Phydenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine On account of the unsatisfying response of the Ministry of Transport to requests for the completion of the work on the electrification of the railway section from the Kiverci station to Lutsk. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:10]] For 175 Decision taken. Victor Petrov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure by the State Committee on Land Resources, the State Committee on Forestry and the Provincial Regional Administration of the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine for the transfer of the area of the forest fund to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine to the forest hunting industry of the Winnitsk Region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:55]] For-152. Decision taken. People's Demjochin, Bagraev, Nikolainko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on urgent measures to support the Hersonian Industrial Complex. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:21]] For 207 Decision taken. Yuri Shirka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the government's inaction with regard to the creation of a fund to finance the work related to the creation of shelters for spent nuclear fuel and the decommissioning of nuclear installations after their expiration. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:53]] For-164 Decision taken. Dear John Ivanovich, I want to tell you that the Supreme Council and the session hall are for the deputies, but as an exception to the welcome of our colleague. But let us act according to the established rule. It's not a doorway. Vladimir Puzakov to Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to implement the State Program "Oncology 2002-2006". I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:41]] For-162 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies: Lukyanenko, Omelchenko and others - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the procedure for approval by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the draft agreements and the concept of the creation of a single economic space. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:09]] Z-91 Decision taken. Hennady Widowenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for interference with the internal affairs of Ukraine's first Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation of Metrofanov. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:37]] For 133 Decision taken. Anatolia Matvienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the baseless allocation of funds to the State Administration to provide visits to the President of Ukraine abroad. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:04]] For 172 Decision taken. Yuri Lucenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the loss of the Ukrainian State budget as a result of violations of legislation in the use of Ukraine's radio frequency. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:32]] For 171 Decision taken. Romana Tkacha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to carry out the commission to enter the state of rural and rural councils of civil engineering. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:22:00]] For-183 Decision taken. Oleg Panasovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the normalization of the operation of an open-source stock company, the state energy-generating company Centroenergo and other energy-generating companies. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:22:30.]] For-166 Decision taken. Group of National Deputies of Kostinyuk, Tanyuk, Klukkowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to comply with the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order of 6 March 2003 on the recommendation of parliamentary hearings to honour the memory of the victims of the 1932-1933 famine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:23:06]] For-141 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies Timoshenko, Turkinov and others to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to implement the Programmes of Urgent Action and to prevent the deterioration of the environmental and social situation in Borislav, 2001-2005. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:23:40]] For 128 Decision taken. Eugene Hoornik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the allocation of funds to restore the architecture of the nineteenth - century concert hall of Kaluzka School of Culture destroyed by the fire. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:24:10]] For-151 Decision taken. Mikli Tomenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the legality and enforcement of the State's interests in determining the amount of State-of-the-art duty collected for the call of business groups to the Odessa newspaper South. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:24:40]] For-123 Decision taken. Mikola Catherinechuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the collective appeal of citizens regarding the violation of environmental safety standards in the village of Dubovaharenca of the Kozatin district of the Winnitsk region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:25:14]] For-147 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Coordinating Committee on Combating Corruption, organized crime with the President of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to bring persons to justice for the deliberate murder of teenagers. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:25:51]] For 215 Decision taken. Mikli Tomenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on strengthening the monitoring of the investigation of the attack on the head of the Dankor newspaper. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:26:18]] For-147 Decision taken. Mikoli Katerinczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of spending by the National Fund for Social Protection of Mothers and Children "Ukraine Children". I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:26:45.]] For 190 Decision taken. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the State Customs Service of Ukraine on account of the inactivity of the management of Western Regional Customs, the Department of Security of Ukraine, the Directorate of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Lviv area of combating the smuggling of food and other goods that undermine the state's economic situation. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:27:26]] For 139 Decision taken. Vasil Tsusko to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Transport of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine for an unreasonable decision by the management of the Odessa Railway to dismantle the Berezine-Arzitz railway. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:27:57]] For-174 Decision taken. Jury Solomatin to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of a criminal case against officials of the State Committee on Crushing for stealing from the State budget of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:28:26]] For-123 Decision taken. Victor Baloga to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the dangerous ecological situation in the Mukativ district of Zakarpatsk in connection with the careless storage of poisons. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:28:56]] For-136 Decision taken. Vitalia Šibka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the housing conditions of the officials of the Babushkin District Council of the Dnipropetrov region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:29:24]] For-144 Decision taken. Eugene Hoornik to the Attorney General of Ukraine for information on the results of the investigation into the assassination of the deputy head of the Johno-Frankow district administration of Mikli Skribljak in March 2002. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:29:58]] For-123 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the situation in the Kirovograd area regarding cancers and the question of the addition of a second line of district cancer dispenser. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:30:28]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine for the slaughter of residents of the village of Verbljana, who were taking care of the Yavorov region, where training was provided to Italian troops that caused massive illness of children to an unspecified disease. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:31:01]] For 197 Decision taken. Vasil Onopenk to the Minister of Transport of Ukraine for the violation of the constitutional right of citizens to freely move and restore the movement of electric trains through the connection of the "Fivehtka-Terna" of the Dnipropetrovsk region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:31:30.]] For 171 Decision taken. Sergia Slabenka to the Minister of Ecology of Ukraine on the problem of building a solid waste site in Novovolinsk. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:31:56]] For 121 Decision Adopted Vasil Bartkov to Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine, Director General of the State Committee of Ukratransgaz on the gasification of the villages of Ivano-Frankow region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:32:25]] For 133 Decision taken. Mikoli Anichuk to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine regarding the inadequacy of the establishment of a six-day school week in general educational institutions. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:32:53]] For-136 Decision taken. Victor Baloga and John Ivancho to the minister of Ukraine for emergencies and protection of the population from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, for the immediate repayment of debts to black people for the payment of benefits and compensation. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:33:27]] For 185 Decision taken. Alexander Baranowski to the Head of the National Electricity Regulatory Commission of Ukraine on electricity tariffs for industrial and municipal enterprises in the city of Žitomir. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:33:54]] For 118 Decision taken. Mikolih Crutz to the Head of the Ukrainian State Border Service on the settlement of social debt to former military officials in the Ivano-Frankow region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:34:23]] For-167 Decision taken. Basil Onopenk to the Head of the Kiev City State Administration regarding the inaction of the employees of the residential and maintenance office number eight hundred three cities of Kiev and their violation of the constitutional rights of residents to a sufficient standard of living. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:34:57]] For-140. Decision taken. People's Deputies Groups: Yavorowski, Boyko, Bondarenko, and others to the Kiev City Head for the implementation of the Jubilee measures marking the century of Boris Hmiri, deliberately torn down by senior officials of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine at the stage of their preparation. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:35:32]] For-166 Decision taken. Vladimir Petrenko to the Head of the Council of Judges of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council of Justice of Ukraine, for the violation of certain articles of the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine by the Sumi District Court. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:36:03]] For-137 Decision taken. Vassil Bartkov to the head of the State Liaison and Information Committee of Ukraine, head of the Government of the Open Shareholders Association of the Skretelekom on the telephone call to the villages of the region of Rožnetin in Ivano-Frankov. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:36:39]] For a-117. Decision taken. Oleg Tuggnibok to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the verification of the failure to pay PP Boxster VAT along with fines of over 4 million dollars and possible in connection with this abuse of office by DPA officials in the Lviv region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:37:14]] For-162 Decision taken. Alla Alexandrovsky to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of compliance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on the recognition of the bronze sector as one of the priorities in the Ukrainian industry and the measures to give it State support. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:37:48]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Vladimir Leshchenka to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the delay in the execution of the court's decision on the payment of arrears from the wages of residents of the village of Kurin of the Chernigiv district of Trizenko. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:38:19]] For the 120th. Decision taken. Mikhail Rodionov to the Minister of the Interior of Ukraine regarding the gravity of the citizens’ appeals. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:38:44]] For-125 Decision taken. Jury of the Orobac to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Minister of the Interior of Ukraine for the review of the report on the work of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the study of the situation in connection with the holding in June 2003 of the introductory election of the city’s head, Mukachevo Zakarpatsky. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:39:28]] For-182 Decision taken. Jury Orobac to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the activities of the Prosecutor's Office of the Sumsk Region regarding the leader of the district organization of the party "Abluko" Shaposhnikov. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:39:58]] For-123 Decision taken. Maria Markusz to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal possession of more than 460,000 coins from the Centre Institute of ICT. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:40:31]] For-127 Decision taken. Mary Markusz to the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy on a formal approach in responding to a request for one-time assistance to compensate the disabled. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:41:06]] For 133 Decision taken. Let us move on, fellow believers, to the consideration of matters according to the schedule. Report of the President of the National Television Company of Ukraine, Head of the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting of Ukraine, Head of the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio Communication on the implementation of the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine “On the order of the proceedings of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”. The following rules are proposed: five minutes for the speech and five minutes for the answer to the questions. Dear colleagues, after that, allow the committee head Tomenko Mikoli to speak for five minutes and then hold a discussion for 10 minutes, that is, within 45 minutes. No warning? Please, I invite you to the rostrum of Savenka Alexander Mikolaiovich, president of the National Television Company of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u14	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The National Television of Ukraine has always been responsible for and is committed to highlighting the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and is making the necessary efforts to implement the provisions of current legislation, especially the Television and Radio Broadcasting Act on the broadcast of the first parliamentary sessions, the days of government and parliamentary hearings, the address of the Head of the Supreme Council, and so forth. The activities of national deputies are widely reported in news programs and other broadcasts of the First National Channel. Members of Parliament are frequent and welcome guests in our studies. However, Ukraine’s National Television is concerned about the situation surrounding the implementation of Supreme Council decision 10224 on how to explain the work of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If you mention that the National Television Company was established in 1995, and I am already the seventh president of the National Television Company, whoever is president of the National Television Company, who is leading the Parliament. In the early autumn, this question is raised over and over again. I'd like to go back to and try to figure out what the real reason for the situation is. Closer to decision-making. For example, paragraph 1 of this decree states that the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio and Derived Radio, in accordance with the law, will continue to ensure the placement of a government order for the announcement of the work of the fourth session. Today, today, you and I are with you on October 3, I, as the head of the National Television Company, have to say that there is no government order for reporting. And you want it or you don't want it, the National Television Company is in such a situation today that by enforcing the decree, it will continue to violate a number of laws. If I have enough time, I'll try to show you. And it's not that, let's say one of the officials at the National Council on Television or Radio, or Derteradio doesn't want to make a decision. The thing is, there's just no mechanism to implement this decision. The National Council with this function is enshrined in two laws, while the practical mechanism of implementation, let's say, is there in the Cabinet of Ministers decree of June 2nd of this year, the National Council is not as an organization to carry out such functions. Item two. The national television company in paragraph 2 of the decree is charged with providing live television on the first channel of opening the fourth session. Done. Moreover, it is a direct broadcast of Government Day, as set out in the law on the order in which the authorities of the higher state and local self - government authorities are informed. And about three o’clock yesterday, we spent forty - five minutes broadcasting parliamentary hearings. Paragraph three. Another legal colossal. The point is that since there is no government order, it is one of the legal situations from which no exit has yet been found. It's assigned to item three to provide a live broadcast between 19 and 20 hours for 45 minutes. The thing is, the National Television Company is currently without the volume of government procurement without funding, and it's in a situation where it's supposed to be receiving broadcasts from the Broadcasting Company. There is a logical question: how, without placing a government order in the National Television Company, how is this program produced in the Radio Broadcasting Company? Doesn't it turn out that, let's say a government order is already posted in the Radio Council, and more than that, it's set up in practice, when we take transmissions from foreign producers, then the National Television Company pays for this product. At the moment, the Radio Company "The Council" is also paying the National Television Company a certain amount of money for broadcasting. And so this clearly says that there is actually a subordination of the channel that is prohibited by article 10 of the Television and Radio Act. What I'd like to ask you right now. What is at present, there are many legal commissions that, without your help, honourable national deputies, we simply will not resolve. I hope for your understanding and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u15	Yes, questions, please sign in. On the board, please give us the names of the national deputies who are registered. Valentin Zubov, Julia Timoshenko faction. You don't? Yes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u16	Your Honor, you just said that a number of items, namely the third, the fourth, are not in effect. And you think it came out just because there's no government order and no government placement. I have a question for you: who do you think is in line with the fifth paragraph, which states that for failing to comply with the requirements of paragraphs 1 and 3 of this Order, the Head of State Television and Radio Broadcasting of Ukraine, the heads of the National Television Company of Ukraine, the National Radio Company, have a personal responsibility in accordance with the law. Who do you think is carrying? Personal responsibility for not carrying out three more important points of action.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u17	Thank you. Well, first of all, I didn't say that the orders weren't executed. On the contrary, I said that the first paragraph of this decree had not been implemented. And this is not a function of the National Television Company. The second paragraph is done, the third paragraph is partially executed, because the 45-minute program is "The Council. Parliamentary Messenger" The National Television, starting with the start of your work in this session, we have launched this program. And almost 150 national deputies, representatives of all factions, of all factions in every transmission, analyze the sessional week and express the faction's opinion. Regarding point four, I didn't say anything at all, because it doesn't concern me. And as for the fifth point, of course, personal responsibility is borne by the manager. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u18	Alexander Pecklushenko, please. It's a faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u19	Alexander Nikolaevich, I know you personally and today, listening to your report, I have not felt the usual optimism and confidence. And it's probably because of your dissatisfaction. I think in the last faction meeting, there was a very urgent question in our "Regions" faction about interaction with you. Please tell me, which of the faction meetings have you been to, and when are you planning to visit the faction "Regions"?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u20	When you invite me. If it's today, I'm ready to come today. I'm relatively sure I'm convinced of the integrity of my position. In the situation facing the National Television Company today, this is the only way out. It's just in five minutes that a set of problems that he's accumulated over, well, for almost a decade, it's very difficult to say. The fact is that the National Television Company for today, we are constantly trapped in the scissors. For example, there has never been less budget funding for this year than in 2003. We just got the 18 million-dollar limit. So to make it clear what it is, 18 million, I'm just going to give you a few numbers. Let's just say it takes 19 million to maintain the hardware and study complex on Melnikov 42. To produce news, 15 million are needed. It takes 27 million to produce programs. To make transfers of an internationally binding nature, 21 million. And so on and so forth. And I tell my colleagues very often that a person is basically the same as how many meters from the shore he will sink, whether within a mile, four hundred meters, or a hundred and fifty. We're not saved by 18 or 19 or 39 or 59. Over the years since 1995, 68 million dollars have been budgeted for underfunding. And the debts of the National Television Company are only 61 million. You know, today we're in this situation where we have the biggest debt to the European language community is 16 million. What the European Language Association is. It gives us, let's say, the Olympics broadcasts, the international sports competitions, we get news, we get news pictures of news when, let's say, our delegations to the government, first of all, we're dealing with heads of state, we're doing business abroad, that's because of this satellite dish, because we're able to talk every day about what our leaders were doing abroad, what decisions they were making, what negotiations they were having. If we're expelled from this organization, we'll get rid of everything, we won't be able to show the Olympics. Well, then it's a shame. And this, you know, this debt has been accumulated since 1995. To date, where there is great optimism if there are no shipping restrictions today. And the national television company says that it worked poorly, let's say last year or this year, I can't say because if the budget last year was 30 million, and it was 18 years ago, then the National Television made 19.3. It's just today, if you don't make decisive, fundamental decisions today, I'm afraid that a system like state television, which is the last plot of Ukrainian idea, Ukrainian statehood, Ukrainian language, today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u21	Alexander Mikolaiovich, please. You don't have to abdicate the Supreme Council, it's well-trained. Let's keep asking questions for 10 minutes. Just give it a little bit, I'm essentially asking you to answer the questions. Please, Maria Marcus, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u22	Maria Marcus, Communist faction. Please pass the word to Mihowich Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u23	Mihovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u24	Thank you, Maria Andriyevna. Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich! We know you. Like an experienced journalist and politician, and your speech showed that it was also in the field of law. But please tell us what additional laws are needed to objectively explain the activities of all the factions of the Supreme Council? I mean the trend and the one-year coverage of only the pro-President factions and their representatives. It's different. Why there is a small limited number of national deputies in the various plots and forms of supply, and again, it is mostly the pro-President factions. And the third. Why use old images of the work of the previous session of the Supreme Council, which portrays Parliament’s work negatively and thus creates negative public opinion in society? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u25	Thank you for asking. I don't understand what you're saying, what old frames, when. The questions are too much. What are the new laws? No new laws are needed. You don't have to. In our work, we try to explain the work of Parliament objectively. It's about the news. Let's say we have a variety of thoughts and if you say we don't have representatives in the news, let's say there's "Our Ukraine," the Socialist. If you say that recently. We and our programs had, say, a friend of Kruczky's. In "The One," he was literally days 3-4. Simonenko keeps speaking on behalf of the faction in our news. Let's say that's what's going on with the new broadcast of "Parliamentary Messenger," "The Council. The parliamentary messenger" shall be given the floor, without exception, to representatives of all parliamentary factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u26	Yes, please, Nechiporak, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Isn't that right? Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u27	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Block of Our Ukraine. Please give the word to a colleague of Stretovich's.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u28	Volodymyr Stretovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u29	Dear colleagues! Vladimir Stretovic, Party of the Christian-Democratic Union. Alexander Mikolaiovich, I have two questions. First. Is it possible for the National Broadcasting Company to disseminate information that, in connection with the birth of the Head of the Central Electoral Commission, he has ordered to gather from all members of the CTC 200 bracelets, heads of administrations 50 bracelets, heads of departments 20 bracelets, and regular members of the CBC 10 bracelets for birthday celebrations? That's the first question. Is that possible in principle? The second question is why the National Broadcasting Company, which is fighting for Ukraine, is not in favor of the state and does not love its legislative, higher representative body, the Supreme Council. Why does she give up the Supreme Council in public? Why is this happening? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u30	Thank you. As for the CBC, Mr. Rybc's birthday, I hear it for the first time. If this is official information, not on the level of rumor, so why not publish it, if I emphasize this is official information, we use official information. I never have, never has, never will, I don't know how to formulate, and there's no reason not to love the Supreme Council. You are the chosen people, you represent the people. And it seems that in our programs, indeed, among all branches of government, the work of Parliament is the highest. We try to be objective.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u31	Katerina Fomenko, please. None. Alexander Moroz, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u32	Alexander Mikolaiovich, a few questions, take note. First. Do you not feel it necessary to regulate the ratio of the right to a television channel and to the constitutional right of a person to objective information?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u33	One more time, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u34	Then add time. Don't you think it's necessary to regulate the relationship between the right to a television channel and the right of people to objective information, and it's a constitutional right? The second question. You're personally responsible for this. Why is there no direct political broadcast on television? It's not only us that don't see it, it's what makes you wonder at colleagues from abroad, when you tell them about it, they don't believe it can be, no direct political transfer. And the third question. Why is there a violation of legislation regarding the time spent on advertising, especially in the evening? I did the math once, and then just when I looked at this Sarmat and the others there, "Slavitch," and so on, I just spit and didn't want to drink that beer, because I'm not a fan, just get drunk and, as the newspaper says, play guitar. Well, that's terrible alone. Are you responsible for these things or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u35	Thank you. I'll start with the simplest, third question. The national television company does not violate the legislation that applies to advertising. Because its volume, for example, is nine minutes within the hour according to the law. These nine minutes, we just don't pick. We're watching this, I can present the documents, please, it doesn't fit in here. Why is there no direct broadcast? There are live broadcasts. Let's say it's a political transfer, let's say it's an accent program. And a large part of the audience in this room were participants in this broadcast. "That's the one," thank you for the tip. And so on. By the way, that's what this is about. I didn't know it was going to be a question, so I asked my colleague to prepare. Look who we had on "The One." Georgi Kručkov, Sergei Gmira, Yushchenko, Kenzior, Grigorovich, Valerius Assadchev, Eugene Crvenkovski, Pavel Movchan, Taras Stack, Mikola Katerinczuk, Gregory Dashutin, Igor Kalichenko, Nestor Shufric, Igor Shurma, Alexander Granovski, Alexander Moroz. [[B in m in s a l in]] In this? That's what it is about linear.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u36	Please calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u37	Regarding the legislative regulation of the ratio of the right to acquire a channel. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll make it clear. That's the thing. I haven't finished answering my questions yet. You're going to let me finish on question three. I don't quite understand the legislative regulation of the ratio of the right to a channel. The government channel should not be purchased by anyone. He's state. And I understand the point of your question. As long as I'm president of the National Television Company, all I can do, all I can do, I'm going to do everything I can to keep this privatization from happening. And the thing is, we don't have everything going the way we want it to. Of course. One who does nothing is not wrong. As for when Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich was the guest of "The One," this was not prepared by me, and I will specify and let you know in person. I'm not ready to talk about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u38	And so is Grimri. Terrence, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u39	Victor Terrence, Yulia Tymoshenko block. The Honourable Reporter of Dolganov, Lapicura, Korchinsky, Viznicki, and they have no number. I understand that it takes a lot of courage to watch, listen to our President, and I feel sorry for the television staff who have worked so long to install the footage of Mr. Kuchma, cut off, you know, cut out his lexical pearls and all that. And for example, on other channels was Mr. Kuchma's immortal phrase literally in the days where he said at the press conference that the MPs, the others there, were plaguing with their tongues. On the first channel, you know, it's gone, you've circumcised it. And so the question to you is, tell me, who gives you the right to edit footage with our beloved President?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u40	Well, what I don't remember, according to current legislation, is, I don't remember, article 19 or article 16 of the law on the order in which public authorities and local governments are notified is that it's clearly entrusted with making special reports, reports, and so on about the most important events. If the press conference lasted an hour and a half, and it wasn't on the air, and we have 5 to 7 minutes, when, of course, 10 minutes, we have to choose the most serious moments that deserve the attention of society. It's not an edit, it's a journalist's right to determine what he sees most, and put it in his material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u41	Replica, Frost Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u42	Alexander Frost. I understand your difficulties now in the rostrum, but you know very well what you're talking about. But, really, it's the same thing as the other TV programs at UT-1 that have recorded me not once here, but in fact, I've never seen myself on the screen. Then the journalists explained, "Well, you know what's forbidden in our democratic society to show those who are telling the truth about what's happening to us today." [[And so do you.]] You understand that very well, you may not answer that question, but I would like to say that you do not use help that has a rather questionable basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u43	Thank you, I'll figure out another way your last name came up here, but, Alexandre Alexandrovich, well, I apologize, if I'm wrong here, I'll figure out why it happened. But tell me, you're saying not to show those, I don't remember, last Saturday or the past you commented in "Parliamentary Messenger," which means. And you have a claim before that? For example, have you been misinterpreted or misinterpreted?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u44	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The bush of gossip and time is running out. We've been talking for 18 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u45	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. You know, something of me has been made "the message of Kige," which we have "the figure, the personality is so secret that it has no figures." No one saw me in "The One" program, somehow you saw me. Maybe you can see democracy on the first channel of Ukrainian television. [[Applause]] But if you take this opportunity because you said that I was on this program, I want to ask you, next week or in a week, you will invite me to the programme "The One Alone" on account of your democratic beliefs.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u46	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u47	We'll call you and we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u48	Time's up. Please. There will be others. Dear colleagues, your time is up, you'll be able to ask others questions. Please, thank you, sit down, Alexander Mikolayovich. It was a replica of the names of those who remembered, they responded. You weren't mentioned. Remember, right? Keynote microphone, please. Oh, no, that's enough, respectable colleagues. One act: Klukkowski and Kendzior will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u49	Yuri Klukkowski, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of Victor Yushchenka's "Our Ukraine". I was delighted to hear my nickname from the president of the National Television Company. But I have to say that here, from the rostrum, the National Broadcasting Company continues the same campaign of misinformation and lies that today flows from all the channels it owns. I did not have the privilege of being accepted by this television company and speaking on its channels. So my last name is another disinformation campaign.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u50	The report is addressed to the head of the National Council on Television and Radio Broadcasting, Boris Ivanovich Holdod. Boris Ivanovich, tell us how your narrative is being implemented. But you said there would be a punishment, if the disclosure order was not executed, how would you implement it? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u51	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u52	Just a minute. Stop it, please. Alexander Mikolaiovich Savenko! Please go there. Please! I'm asking you, come on, dear fellows, we'll listen. What did you do in there? What do you do to a person? Let him rest. Please. Excuse me, Boris Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u53	With regard to the implementation by the National Council of the Supreme Council decision of July 3, 2003. Indeed, the National Council had written down the first paragraph: according to the Ukrainian legislation on the order of disclosure of the activities of state authorities and local self - government authorities in Ukraine by means of the media, on the supply of products for public purposes, to ensure the placement of a government order for the presentation of the fourth session on the channels of the National Television Company, the National Radio Company and other Ukrainian television organizations. And paragraph eight. With a view to raising awareness of Parliament's activities, the Chief of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is obliged to organise the preparation of relevant documents for the creation of a satellite-cable parliamentary television channel. Contact the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio talk about the licensing of a language authorized to explain the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on this channel. On the first point, the National Council of 23 July of this year decided to comply with the requirements of the decree, and the Supreme Council itself decided to recommend the management of the National Television Company of Ukraine and the National Radio Company of Ukraine to make contracts for the public procurement of the fourth session. After the agreement has been concluded, the National Council will be given documents to monitor and monitor the implementation of this decision to place on the First Deputy Head of the National Council of Victor Ivanovich Monday and the heads of the structural divisions. As far as execution is concerned. Dear National Deputies, every year when the Supreme Council's decision on disclosure is taken, the National Council will deal with this issue once or twice, because valid legislation does not fully agree on the standards that should be for disclosure and procurement. The National Council Act, in fact, paragraph two, states on the National Council that the National Council places a government order for the disclosure of the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine according to the Ukrainian law on the order of disclosure of the activities of State authorities and other legislation. And we annually implement the Supreme Council's decree, and we organize the national and radio company's distribution of government orders. But only organizationally. Because financially, and as it were, legally, we can't post because we're not on the National Council for this. I understand what this is about right now, and of course, from the decision we have made, we can and should make decisions by the National Television Company and the National Radio Company regarding the conclusion of an agreement between the Broadcasting Company of the Supreme Council and the National Television Company and the Radio Company, and for this reason, the Supreme Council's decision and the National Council's decision. For this reason, in September, when the meeting of the Supreme Council began, we prepared a review of the National Council. In the absence of a quorum at the National Council of 5 meeting (there were no three members of the National Council), we held a meeting on this subject. 8 numbers, when they met at the National Council for Admission, after the rotation of two members of the National Council from the President and the absence of a responsible secretary, of course we could not take a full decision of the National Council. After today's discussion, I think we can ask questions at the National Council meetings and make a coordinated decision to make it more specific in this exercise. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich and the distinguished national deputies! In view of what Mr. Savenko has said and will probably speak, the Committee on Television and Radio, the National Council makes specific proposals on the further organizational and legal basis for making such decisions and making them mandatory. First. Enlightenment to the work of the next session of the Supreme Council is being carried out in accordance with the Supreme Council ruling adopted at the end of the previous convening session. [[We're proposing.]] This will enable teleorganizations involved in lighting to prepare organizationally and financially and to start normal work from the opening of the session.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u54	Boris Ivanovich, I'm sorry, we're doing this, and we accept it. This is a specific proposal that we are making. We took 433 votes before the session ended, and there was plenty of time. You want, we're about to make a decision on the next session. You tell me, give an answer in such an understandable English language. Decision adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine The Constitution states that the Supreme Council adopts laws and regulations. Legislative acts. The decree of 433 national deputies is not being implemented. How can I be like the Head of the Supreme Council, on whom responsibility is placed for the implementation of this decree, what should I do? Tell me, how important is it to force the head, the president of a television company that says, "I don't want to, I won't do it?" What should we do? Is it necessary for the Supreme Council to also write dungeons and distribute, then we will work, all in the dungeons. Let's face it once and for all. And you tell me, what authority can there be in the Supreme Council if the Supreme Council cannot ensure that its decision is made? You've made a decision that you're going to impose. Don't give us a recommendation, will you tell us exactly what sanctions the National Council will apply to make the ruling executed? Should the Law Be Established? We will adopt the law. But there must be order in this state. That's it. You can answer the questions. You don't have to do general phrases. We do not have enough time to consider other matters. And we have to go back to that question. If it were said that we would do it in such a part, and others we can't do it, we have to make some decisions, let's do it. And you don't need to mobilize journalists. I say this as if the Head of the Supreme Council were attacking and preventing freedom of speech from developing in Ukraine. I think it would be better to channel energy in order to stop the dungeons.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u55	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u56	Not to blame. We don't have another way out. At that time, we must have some important influences. And now the whole campaign has started because we say we're doing the wrong thing and we're saying the wrong position. Oh, come on, it's just a word of fornication! Give a specific answer to your questions!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u57	Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you for the tip. We're on our way. The laws on television and radio and the National Council are now under consideration. I'm asking, really, for the legislation on television and radio and the National Council to make such changes that they work for both the National Council and the National Television and Radio Company. I agree that today’s legislation is valid only for conversation, just for conversation. As far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u58	Thank you. Let's get to the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u59	As for the 8th point, you know that we made a decision and issued a license for the Supreme Council radio company to speak on a satellite cable channel. Please, if you have any questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u60	Questions, please. Sign up for questions. Yes, on board, please, the names of the national MPs who are registered. Mikola Tomenko, "Our Ukraine" faction. Is it Tomenko? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u61	I'm asking you to give my word to my colleague from the faction of "our Ukraine" to John Plush.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u62	Ivan Plush, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u63	Thank you, colleague. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, reverend Boris Ivanovich. I am glad that Vladimir Mikhailovich has just realized that it is necessary for the meetings of the Supreme Council to be broadcast. But he asked you, Boris Ivanovich, what must you do to make this happen? I don't think anyone knows better than Vladimir Mikhailovich. What must be done to ensure that the Presidential Administration does not interfere with the First Channel and build the First Channel? To avoid being loud, I'll give you a few facts. In the Supreme Council Hall and the previous call, and to the previous one, it's eternal, Alexander Zinchenko knows as the head of the profiling committee, the eternal problem. We're making a decision on the Supreme Council's disclosure, and that decision is going to go unfulfilled. Dolganov did this the most. But like Savenko, no one's ever done that before. That's why I advise you, Boris Ivanovich, sit down with Vladimir Mikhailovich and agree on what needs to be done so that it doesn't happen. You're both on the case. And don't fool us.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u64	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u65	Teeth Valentina, Julia Timoshenko's block faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u66	Valentin Zubov, Julia Timoshenko's block faction. Please pass the word to Taran-Terreen.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u67	Victor Terrence. Is it Teren?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u68	Victor Terrence, Yulia Tymoshenko block. Wash. You didn't give any specific answer to the Supreme Council's questions. It's absolutely. That's the main thing. The other one. Tell me, please shut down the radio "Rox," the Supreme Council is paying for this money for quality broadcasts. They're gone. And now it's muffled, right now. That's a question. You'll say again that you don't know anything. And the third. Or at least one time your National Television Council has ever responded to an open lie that will be broadcast on television in the morning. And you see it. If you don't see it, you're lying. And then you don't belong here on the Supreme Council or on the National Council. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u69	Thank you. I think it's the first question to agree on the current legislation. It's just that we're working on specific proposals, and there's nothing to say here. We have to work. The second question. Rook's radio is going deaf. Please understand this is not the work of the National Council. And I'm hearing from you today. I'm just in touch with the Statecommunity, with the Cross-Viewing and with the services, with the institutions that influence it or run it, and after today's meeting, I'm going to set up a meeting right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u70	National Deputy Grzezhev, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u71	As far as software is concerned and unclear, or as you say, lying. It's the National Council for the Issue of License or for the Hearing of the Audit and Analysis Department, when it comes to the meaningful part, we certainly turn to the license for language or inadequacy, including these issues. So they're in control of the National Council. Sometimes decisions are agreed upon, and sometimes decisions are not made because there are different reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u72	National Deputy Grzezhev. Oh, Grachev, I'm sorry. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u73	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Boris Ivanovich and Alexander Mikolayovich! Please tell all Ukrainian citizens: If you do not comply with the Constitution of Ukraine because you do not comply with the Supreme Council's decree, do you answer to the positions held? And what forces you to violate, to be criminals, criminals? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u74	Well, if you admit that you don't answer to the head of the National Council, then the report after November first, you can make a decision on the matter. With regard to the violation or, as you said there, the actual legislation and in general the violator, there are judicial authorities, you can address both the head and the members of the National Council, on the National Council, in such a case.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, I want to apologize for my colleague for using the word "criminals" here. I think so. We don't need to say it, it's the first. Boris Ivanovich, before I finish, you say there's a court of law. If a Supreme Council ruling is not being implemented, it is likely to be enforced and brought to justice at the same time as in this case. Then we say we live in a democratic society. That's it. Thank you, sit down, please. The interim head of the State Committee on Television, the radio talk of Ukraine, Anatoly Leonidovich Murachovski. Please
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u76	Good afternoon! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Let me inform you of the progress of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of the Fourth Call and of the implementation of the decree. To implement the Supreme Council's decision of 3 July 2003 on the procedure for reporting the work of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Fourth Call, in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian law on the manner in which public authorities and local government bodies in Ukraine are informed by the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting, with a view to informing Ukraine's citizens more widely and fully of the activities of the single legislative body, the following measures have been taken. The State Committee shall coordinate and methodologically ensure the functioning of the public media in accordance with its tasks and powers, as defined by the relevant documents. The function of placing a public notice on public authorities is established in accordance with the National Council on Television and Radio. for the National Council on Television and Radio. In this connection, our committee called on the National Council to place a government order to highlight the work of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Fourth Invocation in order and ranges determined by the stated decision on the channels of the national television company, the national radio company of Ukraine, and other radio organizations of Ukraine. In turn, we also made recommendations to the appropriate managers to work on the conclusion of this government contract. According to article 15 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Order of Disclosure of the Activities of State Authorities and Local Self-Government Authorities in Ukraine, the media" is provided for live broadcasts on the First Channel of Ukrainian Television and the first channel of the Ukrainian Radio opening the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call. Allow me, honourable national deputies, to mark some of the problems that have arisen in the implementation of the Supreme Council's decree. I would like to point out that the Supreme Council's Decree on the Enlightenment of the Fourth Session of the Supreme Council determines the time, form, genres of broadcasts to be broadcast by the National Television Company and the National Radio Company of Ukraine. Ukraine's Act on the Order of Disclosure of the Activities of State Authorities and Local Self-Government Authorities in Ukraine states that the extent of government procurement by the National Television Company and the National Radio Company is 3 percent of the annual volume of the national channel on which the language is made. I would also like us to know that the decision is valid, it will induce a substantial, severalfold increase in this percentage. Today, a public service contract for Parliament's activities is concluded between the Supreme Council and the Radio Council. The role and place of the National Television Company in this contract are not defined. The Radio Council, which is essentially the contractor of the government order, is producing an air program to be broadcast by the National Television Company. This interaction of information subjects contains signs of suborndance of the channel, which is prohibited by the Ukrainian Television and Broadcasting Act. Regrettably, despite the existence of a large number of legislative acts regulating the activities of television organizations, there is no clear mechanism for placing a public order for public authorities. This creates certain legal coalitions, significantly complicates the work of highlighting Parliament's activities. And for your part, let me ask you to help eliminate these contradictions. The National Radio Company of Ukraine, based on a contract with the Radio Programme Directorate of the Supreme Council, broadcasts directly to the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council on Tuesday, Thursday from 10 to 18 p.m., Wednesday, Friday from 10 to 14 p.m., and broadcasts live weekly forty-fiveths of the thematic news, including "Deputy Week". With their participation on a proportional basis, the representatives of the MPs and groups, the non-fractional national deputies, according to their presentation schedule prepared by the Supreme Council of Ukraine apparatus and agreed with the leaders of the MP factions and groups. In addition, daily information programs feature presentations, interviews, comments by national deputies. In summary, let me say that the State Television and Radio Committee of Ukraine, within its competence, will continue to take steps to ensure clear compliance with legislation regarding the disclosure of the activities of parliament and other authorities of the Ukrainian State. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u77	Sign up for the question. On the board, indicate the name of the national deputies who have been registered. Mikola Tomenko, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u78	Please give my word to my colleague Volodymyr Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u79	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u80	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleague, I respect you as a man as a countryman. But please tell me, have you analyzed the letters and how many of these letters are written by people on a violent, totally groundless closure of the radio program "20 minutes with Vladimir Yavorowski"? How many letters have you received, and how have you responded? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u81	Thank you for asking. Dear Volodymira Alexandrovich, such letters are primarily considered by the head of the National Radio Company of Ukraine. Consider the last parliamentary hearings devoted to freedom of speech that took place in this room. The State Committee does not manage state broadcasters in accordance with current legislation, but only coordinates their activities. And we try to act within the limits of our assigned powers, avoiding interference with the software policy of our information activities subjects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u82	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u83	You're in our session room, and I'm sure you're watching yours on Russian television, so here's my point of view. We don't have much time in the session room, but when you watch your program, it just picks up. There is no alternative to the form of the content of the work with the deputies. That's the same way I want to say it. Both the colossal land and certain MPs are also entrenched by your company. I would like you to introduce new power into the work of the members of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u84	Thank you. Is that a question or an offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u85	Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u86	Thank you. Please pass the word Mishuri Valery Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u87	Valerius Mishur.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u88	Valérie Mishur, Communist faction. Dear Anatoly Leonidovich! You know that public media exists for the taxes of all citizens, I emphasize. How do you view, let's say, the timing of the air, let's say, in the state media, is distributed according to the proportional representation of the members of the Supreme Council, let's say, not simply, one much and the other much less? Next. How do you view it, and how did you answer the questions, such as: What is different from propaganda, a journalist from a propagandist? And finally. How do you see that if an anti-communist programme of Yavorowski is restored, I will also be given 20 minutes for the speech program on communism? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u89	Thank you. It's about your first question. Of course, the national first channel must provide the most objective coverage of the work of the higher legislative body of the State, and there are very good observations in order to shape the programming policy accordingly. Regarding your question, how does a journalist differ from a propagandist? Unfortunately, today, looking at which side to look at. You can't see these differences. And you can think of someone who taught us party journalism when they said that the newspaper wasn't just a collective propagandist and an agitator and a collective organizer. Unfortunately, today this process does not take into account some of the very specific requirements required of it: truthfulness, clarity, accuracy, objectivity. And this is definitely the mission of this one. Today is a great day in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u90	Zinchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u91	Dear Anatoly Leonidovich, I have one question. For 4 years, we've been hearing talk about a sub-norend and this is a wand that's always been guided by any direction to not comply with the Supreme Council's decision. How will you react to the relevant actions of the Supreme Council if the time proposed by the decision is removed from the broadcast network of NTCU and the RTB will begin to speak to the company that will be implemented by the Broadcasting Company "The Council" in accordance with the decision of the National Company?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u92	We agree with this proposal, so it is absolutely right.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u93	Is that a fair offer? That's what we'll do.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u94	If you'll excuse me, there's one other question besides your busy conversation. Your position is personal. The Supreme Council’s decree is to be followed, or should it not be followed? And if your point of view is personally consistent with the position of head of the committee, because I had a conversation with him, it stands to reason that the decision should be implemented. You're talking about a suborndance right now. Just for a little while, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u95	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, my point of view that everything that is accepted in this room must be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u96	I got it. And since you're not in control, then you're working badly. Have a seat. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u97	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u98	Time's up. Thank you. There are a lot of people here, 25 other members of the national team have signed up for the question, but unfortunately, time is running out. The head of the committee, Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u99	Mikola Tomenko. Dear colleagues, I have a few aspects that I haven't talked about here that I'm going to touch and start with this unpopular thing called ethics. We heard three performances that apparently were written by one person because they were the same. And as soon as we begin the discussion, once Alexander Mikolaiovich had already gone to Medvedchuku to report that the discussion had gone well. It was as if from an ethical point of view, we had to listen to what the Supreme Council was thinking on this issue. So, from an ethical point of view, for the first time in the history of the relationship between Parliament and the National Television, it was a very difficult thing to explain. So not only is the decision not being implemented, but the National Television Company has taken the full name of our program, the Supreme Council. And here the journalists walk out of the microphone and introduce themselves, and the MPs understand that this is actually our program going on. It's a completely different program with a completely different logic and concept, which means it's supposed to explain the work of the Supreme Council. I think this situation is not just legal, it's ethical, and we have to react in some way. Remember, during the previous discussion, we heard about the various figures. I ordered a follow-up to see how the Supreme Council's activities were highlighted during the last week. Here we were talking about how MPs will not come off the screen during the news of the Ukrainian Ukrainian program. So, over the last week, we've had a situation that looks like this. I realized that we have four structures, four branches of power: the first branch is the President, the second branch is the Government, the third branch is the Supreme Council, and the fourth branch is the SPPU. Because the President -- first, second, second, the government -- is third, and the Parliament as a whole is fourth. So what's more, the last few days there's been a really strange situation where Sergio Medvedchuk's direct synchronizations were compared to Leonid Kuchma's. I mean, I understand, of course, that Sergey Medvedchuk is the only brother of the President's Administration, but that's the number of direct quotes we've heard in the last two days, maybe the journalists just got confused, the same name. But if we're talking about numbers, I'm also ready to talk with numbers on my hands about the fact that, today, in the information policy of Ukraine, there's no such thing as the Council of Europe standards, there's no basic implementation of the TV and radio standards that have already been adopted. You don't have to take anything. There is the right to answer, to correction, the right to equalize all, as stated in the Act in force on TV and radio. So when we talk and we operate on some numbers, of course we have to talk about real numbers. Now about the conflict between the Supreme Council, the National Finance Company. I want to officially state that the Committee of the Supreme Council on Freedom of Speech and Information has not approved the National Television budget for one reason. And apparently today, he will not approve, nor will he appeal to the Committee on Budgets for the time being to stop solving the problem. Since the figures we got late last night are numbers, you know, for idiots. There is no article on how much the National Television makes out of advertising, there is no figure on how much the National Television makes out of rent. And we're ready to now immediately propose to the commission of inquiry to join the strike of journalists who are hostages there because they get the money. Hostages, because the money's disappearing somewhere. Nobody knows where the money is. When the head of the National Television tells us today, give us 115 million. And where are you going with the 115 million? People get the ones who strike, the money? So we're going to check with the striker now who rents the premises. Because the press is writing? The press says, "One plus one" is two floors, Oksana Marchenko is one floor and so on. Maybe we can protect those simple journalists who work there, and then we can talk about funding. And we're going to give such funding that the channel is really worthy, that people work decently and do decent programs there. Do not be intimidated by privatization. Privatization took place. The channel was privatized by a couple of people who are sitting in the President's Office and sitting there, sharing money, and writing a document about who to show. If the Head of the Supreme Council is banned from the National Television Company, it is not opposition, the Head of the Supreme Council. It can be said either critically or silently. When all the events in the Supreme Council are commented on by two or three people. So what are we talking about here? What kind of lighting? So the position of our committee is absolutely clear. Today, we should ask the question, not about lighting, but about the fate of the National Television Company. So we need to create a commission of inquiry, we need to meet with a news team, we need to see what the financial situation is and so on and make decisions -- not just change or change the president of the National Television, well, there's one representative of the President's Administration, there's going to be another, but change the status of the National Television, put the work there clearly under parliamentary control, and then I don't think we'll be ashamed to listen to such speeches today and not be ashamed to watch the First National. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u100	Thank you, sit down, please. We agreed that we would not ask questions to the head of the committee, but we would move on to a discussion. Let's move on to the discussion. We have 15 minutes left. Now let's see who signed up, dear colleagues. Yes, recorded from the rostrum, please explain to Yuri Artemenko the faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u101	Thank you. Today's historic moment -- Yavorowski and I finally went around Carmazin, he's not the first to speak out of the rostrum for the first time. Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, it's no secret to us that those who ban direct broadcasting are now trying not to give the citizens of Ukraine the opportunity to see the bitter reality that is, and try to make, say, the most honest journalists -- pedestrians, debtors -- the only bearers of the truth that is. And the proof of that is today's speeches, and the dungeons, and this legal equilibrist -- the government -- or not the government of the same Mr. Savenk. By the way, I watched "Internet" yesterday, and I was surprised by the statement that, I don't know if it's true, but Savenka's words about how long he's head of the National Broadcasting Company, there's not going to be any direct broadcasts. You know, I was very surprised. I understand that today we are discussing this fact of censorship -- direct censorship, but in a different form. And I'm not going to go through the legal standards that arise between the Supreme Council and the National Television, even though for a few reasons: first, because this is, in my opinion, the subject of the Guinness Book, as the most absurd decision of government officials. Secondly, it's a subject for the Attorney General's Office to deal with the abuse of office or power. And thirdly, I got a previous comment from a well-known Ukrainian lawyer, and I quote, "So far as we can look into the dictionary, we can copy in the case-laws of the European Court of Human Rights, but if the head of the Ukrainian President Medvedchuk announces that there is no censorship in Ukraine, anyone who denies it will have to explain to the country's chief lawyer first, and what is this censorship? The Ministry of Justice, the top managers of the media, the charismatic leaders, eventually, the Constitutional Court, and this process, like other processes, will be doomed to the length of time required. And you know, I watched TV yesterday, and this lawyer looked like water, because for yesterday's information from the news agencies, the leaders of the National Television Company are asking the President of Ukraine to ask the Constitutional Court to clarify the order of the session of the Supreme Council, the work of the Supreme Council. I'm not surprised at Lishik and Dolganov, who spent several years trying to stop the broadcast of the session, actually censoring the highest legislative body. Then it was fashionable, and then the president was to be strong. But I don't understand today's president of the National Television Company. Excuse me, the president has forgotten his wages, his pensions, his well-being, and he's trying to increase the authority of the Supreme Council, strengthen his role as parliamentarian, build a European system of government. And in a few months, Ukrainian society has been discussing such a profound question as to what further authority to pass on to Parliament? And Mr. Savenko, contrary to the President's reformist logic, circumcises Parliamentary authority, circumscribing the desired parliamentaryism.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u102	Yes, thank you, time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u103	So I only have one suggestion: let's first take this decision, what Vladimir Mikhajlovich said today, make it even more harsh, ask the Attorney General's Office to consider and adopt a bill on the election of heads of the National Broadcasting Company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u104	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine. Basil Nadrag will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u105	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorov, Zovkwa, Lviv. I don't know if everyone has been reading, or maybe those who listen to us, they certainly haven't read the brilliant analytic article by Dmitri Vidrin in "The Mirror of the Week," there's this amazing place, he writes about the President, the whole article of the President dedicated to: "He's stronger than ethics, morality, religious commandments and social taboos, and in this regard he's created, indeed, his own era. [[President i.e.]] But in terms of how hard it is for him to admit that there is something stronger than it is time, time, as a result of an absolute dictatorship, everything has a beginning and everything has an end." I think it's a verdict. Let's get a little bit higher on this topic. We understand very well that the point is not simply that the Supreme Council is being enlightened, that it is not being enlightened. We know that and we understand that. It's hard for me to talk because I'm Alexander Savenka, I know, I know a long time ago. When he first came, it was kind of, kind of funny, kind of tragic. Alexander, your second arrival is comical. Don't you get it? Once Jacobchenko, a brilliant actor, came out of the show in the middle of the winter, it was cold, and came to Dalsky. Dalski is still in his hat, and this one in a shabby finger jumps on one leg. And he's asked a question in the Dalsky, which means, "Let's talk, Kolya." And it says, "Let's talk in the summer, talk in the summer." Sasha, you're a journalist. We'll talk to you in the summer. How are you going to look at both your journalists and everyone? I was Dolganov. They did. And he's trying so hard, he's still trying so hard to please. Who? What has our television, Channel One, been translated into? To the provincial tubule, where the same fat faces of the new recruits of the Esdeks are flickering and so forth. What are we doing? One more thing I have to say is that it hurts and burns. You've raised, you've raised a whole generation of journalistic vices, flexible shoes. They're all very talented people, but you're driving them into a corner. They're getting pitiful bills! I have already mentioned Mikola Tomenko here, and I fully support him in this. Girinowski once said that women’s influence on politics in the middle of the day is much smaller than it is in the evening. Then please explain to me why Oksana Marchenko is actually taking over the entire floor. Why do other journalists barely survive on pitiful bills? This is when we know how corruption thrives. I support once again, Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you for taking the position of Parliament today, not yours or any other, but the position of Parliament. What do officials do to us, Presidential Administration! I want to say again, we're going to make it, we're going to make it. I'm done. Valerie, I'll just answer that. Valera, we're colleagues with you. You're talking about what's going on in Yavorowski, and yours is going to be closed. If they open the program after the presidential election and it's open, I'll give you the first one -- what did you do for Ukraine, language, independence, okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u106	Basil Nadrag, People's Choice Group. The next one will be Alexander’s instead of Solomon’s. Oh, yeah? And I was told that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, I do not claim to be an author. I think today's conversation is normal, the conversation is that we need to see how the above regulation is being implemented. I am deeply convinced that the right questions need to be answered. But there's only one thing I want to say. I would not like to see, in our practical affairs, all of our emotions still beset by the wave of our vision, which may or may not be considered entirely fair. Because, for example, I have doubts that from 19 to 20 a.m. we must tell our respected citizens of Ukraine what we are and what we want. On the other hand, I understand the situation in that way. We can claim anything with you, but for the moment, I would suggest that all three representatives of the executive branch, and the committee in question, understand what the order is and how this machine should go. Because if there's no gas, no one's going anywhere. If there is no warrant, there is no resource, no enterprise, no radio company, no neighbour, no industrial enterprise, no steel industry, it will not work. That's why I think we have to decide with you today. A movement was made in this regard by the Chairman of the Sectoral Committee. It's okay. I think we need to figure out what the warrant is. If he's gone, I'll say it again, I'm deeply convinced that everything will continue to go on in the form of emotion. The next moment, which, I think, I would say, must be understood, so to speak, and understood. If there are questions today that there is no one who can handle the decision, I am united in this case, which has upset me, I have been disturbed by the position of the trade union, including those of which one was created as an alternative to another. They're starting to insist and say we're supposed to be here with you guys. I think it's a reason to think about and understand the situation that people working in this radio company want, which they don't agree with, and therefore they disagree or disagree with, both with their leadership and our claims to you. In general, I think there is yet another subject to be settled by both the Supreme Council and the representatives of the executive branch. For today, I think it's perfectly clear who, when and what he's doing, is not only "to explain our activities, but also to all the other issues," but not to do so today, "to the great regret." In general, I would like to reiterate my agreement with all the positions expressed here in part of the claims. But I believe that we must walk in life, in that land, under the actual provisions that exist. The facts say the same thing, we have to deal with these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u108	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u109	Solomatin Yuri Petrovich, Communist faction. I'm going to try to analyze the question that's being discussed in the session room from social class positions. The bourgeois Parliament discusses the issue of bourgeois freedom of speech and information. That's the problem. The bourgeois guarantor of the Constitution and the arbitrator of the nation, together with his chamber as executive branch of power, has the right to violate any constitutional principles, legislative norms regarding bourgeois freedom of speech. And the bourgeois Supreme Council of Ukraine is always the injured party. That's where we are. That's why the problem with the inadequacy of the relationship between the executive branch and the legislative branch is that we have to eliminate the shameful, uncontrolled presidential branch of power in general with all the "papuas." And the Papuans are members of the Party of the President of Ukraine's Administration, who were stationed in the Bank's former offices of the CPU, in all circuits, towns and paradises. They're kind of out-of-the-way, and it's actually party number one without party tickets, but with positions in the Ukrainian Presidential Authority. The people are beginning to understand the essence of this bourgeois freedom of speech. Even after the performances of the poor people of the Veteran community, the first prime minister of Ukraine, Viktor Janukovic, realized that there was already a shift in people's consciousness and in their understanding of the situation, some tectonic shifts that would destroy all of this power in general, and he announced that he should refuse to move to targeted social assistance. Disgruntled people! This is your first victory! And let this bourgeois power tremble from your iron way! Therefore, the constitutional reform in time for elections to the Supreme Council on a proportional system and the responsibility of the government right before the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not before the unpunished with unlimited powers by the President. Dear friends! Dear radio listeners! Let's imagine once and for all. Questions in the hands of the people themselves. The only source of authority under the Constitution is the people. Rise up, people of Ukraine, for your freedom of speech! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u110	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We need to consult. 12 years old. Whether we take a break or not. Break, huh? Then let's take a break. We'll resume our session at 12:30. The speaker, George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u111	Let's get to work. Dear colleagues, let us consult. The chairman of the morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is the statement. In accordance with the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules, two factions of the SDPU(o) and the NDP are requested to announce a 30-minute recess from 12.30 to 13 hours for consultations, the SDPU(o) and the NDP. There is an authorized Hare, Zarubinsky. Dear colleagues, we are. Let's do it, we're out of procedure, there is. We're in the middle of a question. Let's finish the job, and then we'll talk about it and give it a chance. No, we're in the middle of a question, I've announced Carmazin, and Carmazin's coming out of our question, and then we'll go back to the application.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u112	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yushchenka's Block, Our Ukraine. Honorable national MPs, the reverend people of Ukraine, who are not deaf, perhaps, or who will hear our speech now. It's those factions that ask for a break that want to break up the meetings that aren't in the hall. There is one representative, that does not mean, so you do not have to take a break right now. I mean, today we're talking about failure to comply with the Supreme Council's ruling. Virtually everyone who spoke talked about it. However, I would like to point out that there was no regulation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that did not comply with article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the manner in which public authorities and local government authorities in Ukraine were informed by the media, where it is written that public audiovisual media at the public level are obliged to provide quickly within the limits of the state order for the distribution of such radio programmes. And here it goes according to the decrees for each current session of the Supreme Council by decree, if it is decided by a separate decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thus, there was no execution of article 15 of this law, no execution of a decree. I ask you, where was Attorney General Piscoon? I was driving around again, sharing international experiences. And he was to oversee the law. Now to Mr. Savenk. Dear Mr. Savenko, Mr. Cold, I see they're gone, but they'll have to read and listen. Ladies and gentlemen! At least your places are deserted! Here's the schedule for the first national channel. The time channel "Alternative" belongs to the SDPU(o), the author's transmission of Oxana Marchenko also belongs to the SDPU(o), "The One" – this private company "Gravis" gives, gives on lease terms. What about us? So that's what we're saying. Today, Savenko has named three names of three deputies — Gmiri, Kendzior, and Klukkowski. None of them, it turns out, were on "The One," they weren't. Of the nine other names, Assadchev was not one either. Four names. So 40 percent of the lies were from the rostrum. So, dear friends, I wanted to tell you as the head of the Party of Fatherland Defenders. On August 24, a meeting was held of the Party of Fatherland’s Defenders. UT-1 didn't report it. But when Alexander Zinchenk was expelled from the SDPU party, nothing was reported to anyone, all over the country, on all channels, and UT-1 gave the first news. Please tell me where the equality of the parties is, Boris Ivanovich. I'm the head of the Party of Motherland Defenders. You're not reporting my party's exit, and you're giving the first message to the members of Alexander Zinchenko's party. What would the United States Congress do? I'd stop funding all the organizations that are written in the decree. And I urge you to stop funding everyone who's been written -- the National Television Council, the State Television and Radio Committee, the National Television Company, and commit them to silence Freedom and Bibi-si, and now the Supreme Council session is going down. And where did the journals of the Supreme Council go? Why change them with a surrogate? We have our experts who have made great journals, completely apolitical journals! Honor and thanks for that! And you threw them off the air just for objectivity. I want to remind you of article 15 of the Constitution: No ideology can be recognized by the State as compulsory, no censorship. Fear God! Instead of a zero-party, normal parties will come and then you'll be reminded of what line you were doing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u113	The word has a member of Paul’s delegation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u114	Pavlovski, the faction of the block of Julia Timoshenko, Hmělničina Dear colleagues, I want to be so general that we're discussing today, we're going to mark the general characteristics. In his speech, Savenko said that we work for society. But this needs to be clarified, because civil society has two components: broad levels of population and power. So if the media reflect the interests of the general public, it's a democratic society; if the media reflect the interests of power, it's a dictatorial regime. Hence, according to what has been said, we now have the means of information that promote, bring dictatorship to society, and claim it. What's more, all the negative things that dictatorial regimes have done, they've asked. On the other hand, Goebbels once taught that in the media, 20 times should be repeated, and for the twenty - first time everyone would believe. That's what they do. Look, the stupider it gets, the more it repeats. And look who we talked about. On the other hand, censorship is said, and there is no censor, there is no standard unit - censor, and there is no censorship. So why this cheap censor when a high-paying administrator, starting at the top of the President's Administration? These are censors. Because censorship is such a system of organizing information activities in society, where only the information that governs power is being passed to the general public. The one who can tell the truth should not be in the media, and that is what has been said today. So what we see is, we're under a democratic phraseology, this is a double morality, a moral that affirms a dictatorship. So the only source of democracy today is bad or whatever, but the only source is the Supreme Council, so we don't have to explain it. That's everything that's going on right now. Well, as to what Mr. Savenko says, there is no Kabminu decree! That's the law. Kabminu's ruling is just a sub-legal act. And so if you were really a normal journalist, not a conformist, you would really find a way to use it. And on the other hand, I'm surprised that we started talking about lighting up the Supreme Council when it was still warm. Today, autumn cold, and Cold Boris Ivanovich can do nothing to warm up the relationship between the Supreme Council and the National Television Company. So, the honourable ones need to draw conclusions, and if we really are fighting for democracy, we have to start to say that with order in the media. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u115	Sergei Makarovich Pravdenko, please. Let's get this over with. Alexander Alexander, we've used all the time, taken away, even more.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u116	Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs! As a journalist, I can say almost unmistakably that 24 hours a day a broadcast for any faction -- and it's going to be little for even one faction. And I can still tell you the question here in the room was that if there are 100 private channels, we're going to have 100 channels of half-truth or even outright lie, because private is private and it's pursuing certain interests. We all understand that, too. Clearly, we all want to see and hear ourselves on the screen. And every new wave of national MPs wants to publish their recipes for saving Ukraine. Believe me, in the Voice of Ukraine, I've printed over a thousand texts on how to save a little girl in Ukraine. That's very interesting, yes, if you flip. But this is one side of the deal. And the other one. Our decision to explain is unendurable by criticism. The minutes, the hours, the days -- we wrote it down very carefully. So the CPRS Central Committee never did -- it said it in one or two words. All of these details are not the subject of a decree, but a government contract to be made by the Supreme Council apparatus with appropriate structures. Then, by consent of the parties, it is indicated when and how much is to be paid, first of all, by consent of the parties. The decree, however, must be of a general nature. And the desire to make a decision is even yesterday, not yesterday. I proposed changes to the ruling, and I made them on September 10th. Even our committee has not yet considered them, realizing that this is embarrassing. Even if I'm on the committee alone, she still has a session to attend. So I think it's done consciously. Next. Are we ready to pay the contract? Do we know the answer to that question? Does the National Television have development costs and decent wages at all? Are we in this direction? What is done to place our order with the National Council, and where is the cost? We didn't hear any answers. So it should be literate, first of all, our disclosure decree and all of our future actions. And we are still in the draft decrees of today, and we have a firm schedule of hours and minutes. I wouldn't do that either! Because the head of the National Television isn't the dispatcher of a base that works on the Supreme Council's applications or any other body. Or let us write to all ministers what they should do, how and when they should do it. We don't do that. And there's more. The President of the National Television is operating in the coordinate system that we, the Supreme Council and everyone else, have created, including the coordinates of material and not just material. And we know that very well, because of him, he won't jump. And the last. Our decisions to explain us must be, at least, repeated, legally literate. And for me, as a journalist, it's the saddest thing. Whoever does not take power in Ukraine, I repeat, whoever does not, there will be no freedom of speech! The point of view of the rulers will be correct and expressed only. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u117	We have completed our consideration of the matter. The committee needs to make the right decisions. I can't see it in Mikoli Tomenka's room. Let's give it a shot. Boris Ivanovich, did you want anything? One minute. And from the committee, Vladimir Alexandrovich. Then Boris Ivanovich, Vladimir Aleksandrovitch, is appointed from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u118	Alexander Alexiyovich, honourable deputies! If there is such an assignment, there are still suggestions that there will be no such collegiates in the future. Come on, from Monday, I'm already willing to make proposals with the profile committee on this issue. We will carry out this determination. But at the same time, we will make proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u119	Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u120	Vladimir Yavorowski, Committee on Freedom of Speech Dear Alexander Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues! We decided to do so on the committee. When the discussion is held, we will hear different thoughts, different suggestions, we will prepare an appropriate decision, Alexandre Alexiyovich, and on the day of the vote, on Thursday, when it will be, we will put it to your consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u121	Thank you. We finished the question. Let's move on to the next one. There's a turning point. So let's just get this out of the way. There are two factions: the SDPU and the NDP announce a 30-minute recess for consultations. Give it to me from the Klukkowski procedure. Klukkowski, please, from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u122	Yuri Klukkowski, Ukrainian People's Movement, Viktor Yushchenk's Block faction, Our Ukraine. Dear Lord Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! I would now like to address those opposition colleagues who have signed their bill amending the Constitution to introduce a proportional electoral system. Here's the next clarification you should have, you should notice how they're trying to fool you. And this play by most of the proportional system and today's lack and effort to undermine the consideration of this issue in the session hall shows exactly how sincere their desire to achieve a truly proportional, really party representation in the Supreme Council is, and what does political reform really lead to in their imagination? So I urge you not to give in to these provocations, so that, despite the fact that there are only a few deputies in the room, this question has been considered and voted on in the next plenary week, I think we should all insist on it. We can look at this without individual representatives of these factions, because otherwise it's going to mean that time is running out, and they're trying to continue your deception.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u123	Alexandrovsky, Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u124	The Communist faction, Alexandrovsky, the city of Harkov. I have a proposal. If a faction wants to hold consultations and requests a recess, it is now ridiculous, even though it is the framework of the rules. Today, you know, we work up to two hours. We have 1:00 p.m., that is, in an hour of the day, time for "different." You know that at that time, the only opportunity for the deputies to sound, come back, tell voters about the problems, respond to voter requests, ask some serious questions to the executive branch. And today, if we take a break now, we're depriving ourselves of that opportunity. If anyone needs to consult, let them consult, and let's move on to "different."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u125	Chevchuk. It's freezing.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u126	Thank you, Alexander Alexiovich. I want to explain to my colleagues what caused our legal requirement to declare a break. Dear friends! You know, we don't want to turn Parliament into a London Hyde Park where nothing can be done. This is a very serious decision -- elections to parliament, elections to the next cadence. And if there's a fourth part of the deputies sitting here, and there's no Head, no First Deputy, and I'm the only one who sees one faction manager, and there's no one else to discuss? [[This is Alexander Alexander Moroz, whom we all respect.]] What's that for? It's a propanition to do. I want to say that the NDP faction -- let your critics know -- has long defined us as a proportional election system. And because we're so serious about this question, I don't want 11 minutes from now, until the first hour, when the "Variance" starts, we're talking about it in a hurry. So please take a break. It's the legal right of two factions, and since 13 o'clock, we start talking about it in "Variance." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u127	Alexandre Alexandrovich, please, Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u128	I am grateful to Sergey Volodymyrovich for noticing me in the hall. And I want to say, I'm here, first of all, to listen to Stepan Bogdanovich Gavrish, who signed the draft electoral law, including. changes to the Constitution, which provides that elections will be proportional to a single national list as it will report on its draft law, which is essentially majorist. And you can see it when you feel it. Such a discrepancy, I can't suspect that Stephen Bogdanovich could not come for any other reason or reason. But nevertheless, it would be interesting to hear it. We've considered this law three times before. Everyone knows the meaning of it, so we have the opportunity to continue the meetings for 15 minutes. Let's take a look at it. The factions that want to consult, please, whether they're here or they're coming out, we won't interfere. They consult and everything becomes clear. We need to go through this procedural moment, because otherwise there will be another claim again to our Rules that have not been considered, you see, in a session and put to a vote. Let's do this procedure, because this law is completely known.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u129	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. I’ll read article 3.4. 11 regulatory rules, and we will no longer consult, but we will make a decision. Article 3.4. 11 para. 4 of the Rules. "With the reasoned appeal of two or more authorised representatives of registered members of the parliamentary groups, the factions presiding at the meeting may announce the adjournment of the meeting for up to 30 minutes." Dear friends, dear friends, let's do the following. There's a statement. I'm not going to make a statement about the electoral law that decides whether or not the two factions were motivated. In accordance with the Rules, therefore, two factions of the SDP and the NDP are requested to announce a 30-minute recess for consultations under the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And Shevchuk was now explaining the motivation for this. At 13 o'clock, we're starting a proper procedure. That's why I have a personal and I make it up to you, because we can vote ad hoc, but re-voting 50 cards for 292 in attendance would not be very appropriate. And it would be a very serious observation if we discussed in the middle room, even more than the middle room, we were discussing such a complex issue. So I think that we shouldn't do that, and I can't take a decision, motivated or not motivated by it. Absolutely firm in the position that we need to address this issue in a normal environment in the presence of the entire room, with the principle of expressing our position of all the heads of factions, all without exception. Otherwise it's not going to be procedural, it's not an organizational question, and we're essentially moving all the accents. Please give us a reprimand of the Humvee and we'll make a decision. Gourmet, Communists, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u130	Thank you. Alexander Aleksevic, you just said very wisely that you could not decide whether this proposal was motivated or not, and the Rules clearly stated that only on a reasoned proposal could you take a break. Therefore, you yourself said that the regulatory rule did not work in this case, since you did not assume responsibility to claim that the proposal was motivated. It is therefore necessary to consider this issue. That comes out of your words.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u131	Thank you. Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u132	Thank you. I'd like to get out of the procedure. You know, if we do this kind of precedent, let's put it on all the questions, because who says that one is more important than the other? With almost all questions considered, 80 percent of the room has at least the warehouse that is today. So if we're doing this procedure, if there's not enough deputies in the room, 50 or how many, we don't even consider any questions at all. By the way, we've talked about this over and over again, so let's go to the polls every day so the MPs can walk. This question is not put to the vote by the leadership so that the so - called majority can walk away from Parliament. They walk in this warehouse all the time. So let's not discuss all the questions. Are we just an election law? Thank you. Let's do the procedure -- either yes or yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u133	I speak to the audience about what you will advise, since we have 12:55 a.m., and the hour is said to be holy, which we must meet the needs of the deputies. I don't know who came to make the applications today. Alexander Alexander and we'll be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u134	Dear Alexander Alexiyovich, honourable deputies! Let us consider the proposal made by Alexander Alexanderovich that this issue should be discussed in the presence of all the deputies and so forth, bearing in mind that we are now agreeing that the next plenary Tuesday will be the first to face this issue. Then the requirements will also be met that under the Rules, if the proper order of the day is not completed, it will be considered the next day, and the proposal will be followed, which you have expressed so that the matter will not be discussed without the proper number of deputies and the position of the factions. So I propose that we now agree that the next plenary meeting on Tuesday will begin with the consideration of this issue. I'd like to hear from you as chairman in this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u135	I think we also have the minutes of today's session, and the transcript, and the performances of all those present, and the motivation. The first question we stopped at 12:56 was the election law. So it's perfectly clear that we're moving this issue to Tuesday, not in 10 minutes today. The order is understandable, and why do we make such a decision? Then we prepare for Tuesday, and we will make sure that this is an issue. The first question was made clear on Tuesday. Is there no other offer? We don't announce the break anymore, let's take four minutes off to do nothing. Let's move on to different things. Kostinuk, in different ways, please. I don't need three minutes. Dear colleagues, let's work, not prove it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u136	The People's Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenka block, "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinjuk. Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Trying to keep the top of the criminal power at any cost to the leadership of the state, thus avoiding accountability to its own people for a low standard of living, destruction of fate, failure to resolve social issues, destabilizing the situation in Ukraine. Instead of resolving the issues, the authorities are directing all efforts to carry out the so - called constitutional reform that has begun, remember, from the so - called public discussion. Discussion of the Presidential Draft Amendments to the Constitution. All the authorities from Kabmin to the re-establishment and executions of the rural councils were involved in providing universal approval, in constitutional reform. At this time, there is a sharp rise in prices for basic food products, which have hurt unprotected populations. Today, the question of a bicameral parliament is no longer of concern to anyone. Although, remember, we were convinced that more than 80 percent of the population was supported by sociologists. By the way, the Cabinet of Ministers paid $250,000 to social services for this so - called sociological research from the Ukrainian budget. And in general, the so-called lighting of this "good" millions of people's money went out. Later, a bill was introduced that envisions the election of the President by Parliament. The next project envisions a continuation of parliamentary powers by 2007. Our voters, who have partly been deprived of their pensions and salaries, have pushed 7 million outside of Ukraine in search of earnings, and now have been denied the right to cast their votes for the highest official in the state and want to continue the mandate of the national MPs for another year and a half. [[in quotes]] The whole point of constitutional reform is to preserve the authority of the oligarchic regime, to distract the public from solving important social issues, and this is a fear of being responsible for the robbery of the Ukrainian people. Desperate attempts by the criminal authorities to hold back in power attest to the fact that the regime itself has exhausted itself. Attempts to reconstitute the Constitution into their own order are doomed. In the 2004 presidential election, the Ukrainian people would actually elect the people's president and put a stop to the rule of the anti-national regime. The days are counted, so we start the countdown, until the end of the regime there are 393 days left. Regarding the signing of the EPU, much has been said, of course, that it is a betrayal of Ukraine’s national interests. The People's Movement of Ukraine, other parties that are part of Our Ukraine have initiated a collection of Ukrainian citizens' signatures to initiate a procedure in the Supreme Council for impeachment of the President for betraying Ukraine's national interests. Ladies and gentlemen, don't be afraid, don't be silent, don't be indifferent. Ukrainian independence is not sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u137	Puzakov, Communist faction, next Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u138	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. For the third time from this rostrum, I have raised the problem of the critical situation of the settlement of Pobuja Golovanovské region, which is in Kirovogradj. But, as they say, the train is there now. True, there were answers, even comforting ones, but only on paper. Long years after the closure of the Pobuja Ferronicelieu Combined at various levels of the Ukrainian government, there were lively talks about the restoration of the enterprise, and each time the case was closed when the work was specifically financed. So the combination of 10 years is in suspended condition. And a settlement with a population of 7,000 in ruins and poverty. The answer of the authorities is one: the execution in the State is empty. But, gentlemen, let's move your brains a little bit, not your hands, although you, like circus jugglers, work well. For example, the juggler skills have also been demonstrated by the authorities of the Golovaniv region in the purchase of electric heaters for the village of Pobužsko, which has not been heated for 10 years, feeding in one moment a reasonable amount of budget money that could go to repair the boiler where only 500,000 bracelets are needed. And the cost of one fabulous heater is 17 bracelets 40 copies. But the residents were sold 172 bracelets. Well, what can I say here? Hand-hunting, and no fraud. And that's what's going on with us all over the place. [[& Tiles]] The settlement will freeze again, but the merchants with the local authorities will be warm and cozy. And why would they hurry to restore the combination? And here's a Russian-English investment company that has somehow taken on the reconstruction of the combination. Because people saw that they could work there, that the combination would make huge profits for both the settlement and the area, and, in large measure, for Ukraine. Although one thing I don't understand: how can the authorities treat such an important strategic object as the Pobuja ferronical combination? The question of rebirth is, to some extent, a matter of national and economic security. Today, Ukraine is forced to import thousands of tons of nickel and nickel metals annually. While prices for these products are increasing, more and more currencies are being spent on the purchase. However, these costs could be avoided by the resumption of the work of the Pobužki Combined as a producer of the original, clean, without damaging the metal product for the Ukrainian industry. It is easier, of course, to walk around the world with your hand out, as the authorities believe, than by turning your sleeve to work. My statement should be read as a re-examination to Prime Minister Januković Victor Fedorović of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u139	Carmazine. Next Nadya.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u140	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenka's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Honorable National Deputies, reverend people of Ukraine! I want to draw your attention, unfortunately, to just two episodes that relate to completely different regions of Ukraine. This would draw your attention to the situation in Luhansk, the city of Red Luch, about the removal of the city’s head, the attempt to remove the city’s head, the illegal actions of law enforcement and judicial authorities. During a period of one and a half years since the election of Lukianka in April 2000, six protocols on corruption have been drawn up in spite of the governor’s will. Three protocols have been declared illegal by the Court of Appeal of the Luhansk Region. One protocol is not known from the Yellow Court of Luhansk. Two complaints are being brought before the Supreme Court of Ukraine today. A criminal case in part three of article 112 was violated by the prosecutor of the Luhansk district of Dubovic, who did not even take away an explanation from the mayor of the city for the alleged violations he once had as a businessman. In view of what happened in the Luhansk region, in the Red Luch region, and what was behind it. And then there's what's happening in the city with a broken fever. Oil has been removed from factories, which has been stored there as spare fuel since the time of the Union, into hundreds of tons. 100 - 150 tons of coal is exported from the city every night, with miners themselves unable to obtain that coal. Unlawfully, they are removed from the mudslides and from the mudslides. Today’s transportation is supported by 10 or 20 wagons. And it's all covered up by the State Tax Administration, the city's Attorney's Office, because it was considered harmless, and the decision of the City Council's session, which was called "Take measures to prevent authorized use of the bra." suspending the activities of enterprises in breach of legislation. "and so did not continue to be done. So I'm calling the Attorney General's attention, and I'm drawing the attention of the relevant committees to the saviour that's being done in this city. In addition, I would like to draw attention to the second region of Ukraine, the sad Black Sea shipping of the city of Odessa, where as a result of the restructuring of the enterprise, more than 200 employees have now been released from the state line. At the same time, 100 new workers were hired. Any further action by this company, the CMP, should be carried out solely within the framework of existing legislation, under the supervision of the judicial authorities, because there is now a sale of basic funds for millions of dollars per cent. That is why I am addressing the Minister of Transport and the Attorney General of Ukraine. Ensure that the laws of Ukraine are implemented in a transparent manner. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u141	Thank you. School. The storm. School is, I'm sorry. Next Storm.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u142	I'm always there, by the way. Thank you. Dear colleagues! Respectable expulsions! Dear Ukrainian people! Dear radio listeners! Because there are a lot of people here who are interested in the Supreme Council. Not so interesting, of course, with this national MP, but I think their voters are wondering what's going on here. I'd like to highlight two points. Wait a second. That's what much can be said right now about what's going on with some pressure on the national MPs, there's some pressure on the opposition national MPs, it's definitely happening. But when there are vivid examples of this. Especially. In Kramatorsk, there was an attempt at the life of the national deputy Zubov, who belongs to the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko Block, and it is most interesting that this information was made by other censored media as such, that as he would threaten someone’s life. And I'd like to say in two words what happened. On the way to the Tavria, a car was stopped in front of him, driven by a cab driver. He carried out an emergency situation, created it, and the Zubov MP along with other co-drivers who were on the road, stopped the crime, called on the police and handed the violator and potential criminal to the law enforcement authorities. Here's the whole incident. But not only was this incident probably explained but it was silent in general, but the information that came along came in a distorted, distorted version. And second, I would like to highlight the situation that is now in general in the state. Well, you must all remember that I have been here constantly stressing that Ukrainian statehood is under threat. And when we're talking about some vivid examples of this, and in particular, there's a situation that happened at the Dniestrow Hydroelectric Station. I've already told and highlighted, I got here. The answers to my parliamentary requests, which was created by a commission there, are being considered that the Moldovan ambassador was called and he was handed a note on September 11th and informed that he needed to be removed from his post by Moldovan noble border guards. They will not and will not do so because the president of that State has been awarded a higher government reward in connection with what he has given. One billion dollars is the hydrosol that gave the Moldovan side today's president, he's not sorry, it's not his. He has enough of those objects. And it's now being built by the brave Russian usurper road to the Ukrainian island on the Black Sea and, no matter what, this road will be built and this island will be declared Russian territory. Here we always act as the weak one. Everybody's gonna be sick. I urge you, all the national deputies, to remember that we are representatives of a great state, if not today, in the future. If we remove the yoke of the existing regime, we will become a great state, and no one molded or Russian dares to impress on our statehood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u143	National deputy Shurm, prepare Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u144	National Deputy Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] I'd like to go back to the health issues in my speech. Health expenditure to the General Fund in the consolidated budget for 2004 is 8.5 billion at 19.5 per cent, which increases by 6.5 per cent compared to the previous year in absolute figures. But given that the consumer price index according to the conservative scenario of Ukraine’s economic and social development forecast for 2004 is projected at 6 percent. The real increase in health spending will not take place next year. The consumption of health expenditure is declining, as a percentage of the total spending fund to 18.5 to 18.7 last year, and as a percentage of the projected GDP from 3.1 percent to 3.2 percent in 2003. The parliamentary faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine is strongly protesting the shameful practice of reviewing national legislation into political proportions. [[united]] Consciously, the opposition of individual political forces to promoting the necessary legislative changes to society poses an unfair blow to the development of statehood and democracy in Ukraine, ignores the urgent need and improves the social protection system of its citizens. In this sense, the Supreme Council’s vote was reflected in the reiteration of the draft law on compulsory State social insurance. Open lobbying of corporate interests of insurance companies, uninhibited politics, and in some cases incomprehensible exclusion from resolution of the issue of non-voting, have prevented the country's only legislative body from completing three years of work on a bill that the people were really looking forward to. Trying to explain the position of the bill by its imperfection is nothing more than a failed attempt by the political forces to justify themselves to their own electorates. Because their programming slogans have remained a decisive step toward providing quality health care to the people, these political forces have never succeeded. The people are once again offered to pay their own expenses, to count the so - called charity contributions to hospitals. A painful but constitutional right of Ukrainian citizens to medical insurance is laid down. corporate interests of insurance companies. Because no one was in the way, and nothing prevented all political forces from joining the bill. Time was more than enough. Who wanted to win. From the public health insurance system, he worked. Those who felt indifferent to the fate of their own people and, above all, the most vulnerable categories of low - income pensioners sabotaged the work. The parliamentary faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine of the United States demands that the results of the roll-call vote be made public in the re-reading of the bill on public health insurance so that no one can go to the electorate later and talk about how he is concerned about health reform. We support the requirements of the Central Committee on Health Workers’ Associations, the introduction of pay on the basis of a single tariff network with the size of the official salary of the first tariff level at the level of the statutory minimum wage of 237 dollars. And it stands for all the social problems that exist in the field of health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u145	Kenzier. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u146	Dear fellow members of the national MPs, the week that we are finishing has been marked by the madness of this lying propaganda campaign about the events that took place in Lviv and the affluence of the criminal clan of SDPU(o) tax. On this occasion, the head of the Lviv District Council, Mikhailo Dmitrovic Sandak, spoke on behalf of the Levians as the head of the Lviv representative body, informed the whole of Ukraine about what was going on in Lviv. Four heads of district administrations were dismissed, the heads of the district council’s deputy chiefs merely for expressing their voter positions as electors of their constituencies in their areas. And it's clear that we haven't seen such an unforgivable political execution since the Soviet Union. A propaganda campaign across all national channels. who, for some reason, gave the word of Shurmi to the heads of the Levite ésdeks, Sergio Medvedczuk, head of the tax administration, and none of the Levites, of the deputies who had a different point of view, of the representatives of "Our Ukraine" could speak in the program "The One!"not in information programs, not in any other programs. Moreover, the head of the district council, the Lviv district council, Mikhailo Dmitrovich Sendak, from Tuesday, is sitting in Kiev today waiting to speak with the president. It was understandable that the head of the Victorian Administration, Victor Medvedchuk, must have taken every step to prevent the conversation of the head of the Lviv district council with President Kuchma. Despite the fact that, in fact, today, the whole of Lviv against the terrible action that is being created by the SDPU clan, these days, on live television, they broadcast a session of the District Council and on September 25, and last Monday. Today, a committee from the relevant committee of the Czech Republic is already working, and it is most likely that General Director Jaroslav Klimovic will be released, and it is now planned to appoint a representative of the SDPU (O)-taxman Ludmila Major, who is now serving as Deputy Director-General. So I want to make up for this lie that I've been issuing here from this rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u147	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u148	Ukrainian national deputy Shurma, who was not given a word. It's an honest lie. At the district council there were two members of the Supreme Council of Social Democrats -- Peter Pisarczuk and Igor Shurma, and they got the word. But the fact that Igor Shurma simply took over the district council's rostrum and wanted to get the word in spite of the formed list, of course no one allowed him to do so. And then, honourable voters of Ukraine, I emphasize once again, because not once in this rostrum did I point out that Ukraine today is in terrible trouble, a terrible danger coming out of the SDPU clan.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u149	Unplug the microphone, please. Yeah, it's a Shurm line. Vladimir Aleksandrovich, a replica. The last name was on it. Well, you can't. Shurma, SDPU(o).
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u150	Igor Šurma, faction of SDPU. I would like to address those who have just listened to Mr. Kendzior, those who live in Ukraine, and not only in the city of Lviv. As for the performance in Lviv, I was not given a word when I asked. And what I've locked down is that, Mr. Kendiser, you do almost 10 times every session. I'd like to ask people not to be misled by my 12-year-old rhetoric, which is common to all. He lost court in Lviv twice and appealed to him for satisfaction, and twice he did not take advantage of the court’s decision. And all of his facts, which he calls about the SDPU, were not confirmed. So, I think, before you appeal to some political power to swear in love with Ukraine, please make a decision to the court of Ukraine that works under those laws that you, Mr. Kendzer, have adopted for 12 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u151	Vladimir Alexander Yavorowski, please. Prepare Shershun, the Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u152	Vladimir Yavorowski. Mr. Igor, I'm just saying, you know, fortunately, I'm probably given a word just when I signed up, and, by the way, very often I don't get it when I sign up. I am today, honourable colleagues and distinguished voters, today I wanted to read my third open letter to the President, he's ready, but unfortunately I won't invest in these three minutes. That's probably why I'll do it the next time. Today I want to talk about something else. The writer in Ukraine was always more than a writer. So it happened, from big to smaller. It was the writers who were to preserve the national identity, the soul of the nation, and defend the people. Such a role, such a destiny, someone more - someone less. As a result, in modern times, the National Association of Writers was born and the Society of the Ukrainian Language was later born, the first opposition village that paved the way for Ukraine's independence -- the National Movement of Ukraine, and the Democratic Party, and so on. That's why I'm addressing my colleagues today -- almost 2,000 Ukrainian writers. I would like to remind you that there were 14 writers in the composition that declared Ukrainian independence. They're here today, in Supreme Council 9. And only one, in fact, is not in opposition. I understand perfectly that as a national deputy, and my letters to the President, and my harsh speeches to this cruel, immoral and temporary authority, which has remained over us for 390 days, and every day it will decline, I understand that I am vexing the authorities. But who gave you the right, Mr. Medvedchuk, the President's Administration, Leonide Danilovich, to intervene in the Writer's Federation?Oh, my God! You have led these writers, who today do not receive a fee or a penny, the authorities have led to the fact that today's pitiful pensions are granted to Paul Zagreb, they get the coins for which it is absolutely impossible to live, Anatoly Demarov -- he lacks the cure! And the writers were in favor of the independence of the Ukrainian state, and they held huge rallies! What is being done today in the fields?Oh, my God! A team has been assigned to assemble an extra assembly and to clean up this opposition Yavorowski. In Zitomir, 100,000 bracelets were brought, distributed to the writers. Good men: no man has given up! They're writing to me from Luben. The deputy head of the district administration shoots at the public car in Luben, breaks the bridge frontist and the young poet to sign against Yavorowski. Don't give up! They're writing to me from Sums, where our well-known Scrooge rules with you. They're getting people to sign these papers by machine, they're getting them released. I'm talking to the sneezes. My dear colleagues on the pen! It's not about Yavorowski. Whether I'm the head of the community or not. Come to the congregations on October 11. They are here in Kiev, preparing another insurrection against the Writer's Association. We have to stand with you! We have no right to bend. Yes, there are those among us who have been bought. But most of you will not buy, Mr. Medvedchuk and Mr. President. Please come to these meetings. Show your citizenship, do not let the Writer's Society be crushed. I trust you, and I am waiting for you in these congregations.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u153	Mikola Shershun. Prepare the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u154	Mikola Shershun, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! I want to address you today with a problem that I consider extremely important because it relates to the preservation of the health of the nation and, above all, of the young generation. This is about involving young people, especially rural ones, in mass sports, creating conditions for this. If urban children still have a place to rest, they have a choice of sports services, stadiums and playgrounds, and for rural sports, it's hard work in agriculture. But world and country history shows that pearls, including sports ones, are born in the deep. Then you can only imagine how much their state has lost and can lose more. In support of the said budget in the past years and the outlook in the 2004 budget. If there's 220 million for physical and sports development, which is also very expensive, 6 million for Colossus sports, that's about three percent of what's said above. Today, the situation is being corrected locally. But knowing their budgets and weak legislation can make it clear that they are struggling with air mills. For example, the Plains region. There has been a process of creating rural cultural and leisure complexes where young people can get all the appropriate services, including sports. A wonderful start that immediately produced good results. Yet material and human resources problems have arisen. Especially in the kit of a trainer's warehouse. The reason is in the normative documents that regulate their training. Coach, in order to keep the pay at the level of a gym teacher, has to be charged for 6 hours a week or a third more. In other words, if there are 150 children in a rural school, for example, a boxing coach has to have a salary of 72 to nearly half a school. There's no logic. So I think that until the law on sports schools has been passed, and it's already in place, it's worth settling this issue so that it doesn't change. The relevant government structures and the Supreme Council Committee must immediately come up with agreed proposals to amend the law on physical culture and sports, which is morally outdated. It is also necessary to make changes to the Land Code, which will result in land use taxes, including water funds, and nonstate sports clubs in the countryside, which would be another step toward the development of sports in rural areas. I'm going to the government's profile committee. Don't take a nap! Come out with legislative initiatives, because you need to know these problems better than we do. And I ask my colleagues to support my proposals in considering the relevant bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u155	Hare Ivan Alexanderovich. Two Hare regulations and instead of Zagreb the next Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u156	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian National Party. Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I'm going to draw your attention to two of the signs of our terrible reality of problems. First. On September 25, the Lviv City Council expressed itself against the so-called organization of the State Aviation Company "Levivian Airlines", which is trying to manage the Ministry of Transport, particularly the minister of Kirpa. The decision of the Lviv Council was adopted in accordance with the requirements of Article 34 of the Law on Enterprise. I'd say that's clear. Mintrans must be left alone by this labor force. However, recent developments show that Mintrans’ leadership does not recognize the current legislation and will of the Lviv deputies. It seems that Mintrans' leadership is pursuing one goal: to eliminate this enterprise and to deploy a labour force that is made up of more than a thousand workers. For eight months, the company’s work has been hampered by numerous checks by Minttransport without any conclusion, for there is nothing to look for. Business leaders and employees are under constant blackmail. Today, experts from the Ministry of Emergency Situations and Sanitary Epidemiology have been involved in the inspection of this company, and they're already banning flights, which is actually stopping this enterprise. What kind of business am I talking about? Maybe it's an enterprise of bankruptcy that really needs to be saved. That is, yes, Lviv Airlines is a successful enterprise. During the eight months of this year, it budgeted 3.5 million dollars. The average wage of the company’s employees is almost 600 dollars. This business is constantly increasing the volume of passenger and cargo transport. In three years it bought three planes. The question is: "Why touch this business?" So the labor force is fighting, fighting, because they don't want to be behind the gates today. He knows it's an oligarch plot, and it's already a practice to reorganize such airlines all over Ukraine. You look at Doneck, you look at Dnipropetrovsk on other cities, and you argue that this reorganization has only led to the destruction of these enterprises, to the expansion of the monopoly, to the actual capture of monopolistic enterprises from Kiev at the regional level and to the imposition of their policies far from regional and far from national. Therefore, the Ukrainian People's Party requires the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Transport, other ministries to abide by the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, to recognize the legitimate decision of the Lviv City Council and to stop the planned liquidation of the enterprise by the oligarchs and the Ministry. We warn all the high officials and blind performers of their illegal decisions about their responsibility to the law and to the people who are bound to do so if they conflict with the laws and national interests of Ukraine. And she's already in conflict today, as I've been talking about. The other one. I want to do the same with you in order to draw your attention to another problem. Covered by the Yaltic agreements for the creation of the so-called only economic space, the Russian authorities began a new phase of political and economic expansion for Ukraine. Russian authorities are trying to weaken Ukraine’s energy security. To do that, she's looking to frame the oil pipeline of Odessa-Broda to a tobacco oil company, which is a private essentially company. This foreign private company is essentially blackmailing Ukraine’s leadership by seeking an immediate decision to fill the pipeline with Russian technical oil. If the Odessa-Boda pipeline is filled with oil, we'll have to forget about providing Ukraine with alternative oil, we'll forget about diversification of energy supply, and we can't have economic independence and normal fuel prices. This oil is a box that will close this pipeline for years, blocking Ukraine's integration into European energy space, that is, the space that allows us to put energy through Ukraine from the Kaspia region. The decision to fill the pipeline with this so - called technical oil will be a gross violation of Ukraine’s international agreements, resulting in huge economic losses for Ukraine. A particular cynicism in this situation is the actions of Ukrainian officials, including the head of Naftogazu of Ukraine Boyka and the executive director of Skrtransnafti Vasilka, who, ignoring even the position of the Ukrainian government, do everything they can to serve this private Russian company. Today's meeting of the Supervisory Board of Skrtransnaft is not ruled out that it is at this session that the decision will be made to fill the Odessa-Broda pipeline with so-called technical oil. I remind you that these structures ignore the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers because the Cabinet of Ministers, as you recall, has postponed the decision to conduct a tender for the use of oil pipelines in connection with the absence of a reverse version of economic arguments in favour of the reverse already trying to sign this contract today. The situation has also been seen by UNODC as another attempt by the anti-Ukrainian forces to finally undermine Ukraine's position before the summit of Ukraine-EU. In the event of the illegal filling of the Odessa-Boda pipeline, the Ukrainian People's Party will help both the political and criminal responsibility of those who grossly ignore the laws of Ukraine harm its national interests. Ukrainian People’s Party
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u157	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u158	I'm done. It will seek recognition of agreements signed by ignoring Ukrainian domestic legislation and national interests as illegal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u159	Glacier, Communist faction. The next one is Samantha.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u160	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Alexander Alexiyovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! With deep respect and deep gratitude, I want to address our parents and mothers, the gray - headed veterans today. I also want to address the Chernobylites, the Afghans, the disabled, the many mothers, other destitute Ukrainian citizens, who are constantly being mistreated, who are being trampled, who are being abused by the current bourgeois authorities. Following instructions from abroad, especially after signing a memorandum with the International Monetary Fund, one of the temporary governments of Ukraine has been under constant attack on your legal rights in recent years. And from there, the direction is to take away all the benefits. And they're gradually subtracting. Victor Yushchenko began his career as Prime Minister. Anatoly Kinach continued. And now Victor Janukovic. With the support of the majority in parliament. You don't always have enough money in authority. It's a penny, though. The mischievous watch you starve, freeze, ask for alms. In their bureaucratic circular, they made you swear subsidies, die in queues in the pompous offices of gas barons, energy intermediaries, and other extortioners. They're already ready to send you out of your apartment for not paying for, like, housing services. There is no need to talk about treatment and recreation. The Ukrainian Company's faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the entire Communist Party of Ukraine has consistently and consistently defended and defended your legitimate rights. We do this through legislative initiatives. Influences on state administrations at the top, massive protests against the rule of law. Only the communists came out with you on September 11th, 26th and 30th, on the street of the capital, all the cities and renegade centers of Ukraine, to prevent the crime of power -- replacing legal aid to the fraudulent targeted aid. And where were most of the leaders of veterans, Afghans fed by the authorities at that time? Blackwaters, other organizations? With power! It's true, not all of it. We became a formidable wall and won. Prime Minister Janukovic was forced to declare a temporary withdrawal of power: there will be no replacement for the relief aid in the near future. But once again, this is a temporary retreat. The authorities are regrouping their forces to attack their people again. Therefore, we should not be calm, folding our hands. The fight continues. I address all the ordinary people working for Ukraine to all the disadvantaged: unite around the Communist Party of Ukraine in the fight against criminals in power! Communists with you! Together, we will force the power to work for our people and for our country, not our own pockets! Victory will surely follow us! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u161	Solomonine, the next Red One.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u162	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to dedicate my speech to the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear Alexander Alexiyovich, I am addressing you in this case, although he is responsible for this direction of activity of the Supreme Council of Ukraine - Vasiliev Hennaday Andriyovich, he is now absent. I hope that the transcript of my performance will get to him, and certain calculations and shortcomings that are in the organization of our work will be corrected. The first touch is Thursday. It is not possible for an MP to go to the registration desks in the hall on Thursday. There are some market crowds out there, some misunderstood people, even women with shaved buds. Who's doing this? Can't we settle that there's no one else there from 9 to 11 o'clock? Let them then come to the third floor and to the second floor, and even here to the session hall when there are no deputies. But when the day begins, there should be no one but the deputies. We have to meet with helpers or some other people -- let's solve the issue in a way that's beyond our core job. The second, as regards the order of recording at the sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is prescribed in the Rules, and now look, there's a bunch of deputies there, almost half of what's in the Supreme Hall of Ukraine, they're registered for request for next week. But it was there that the protector of the homeland was the first to register everywhere. How is this done? It's very simple: his assistant, the little one, we're going to say, "all the way," he's already in front of where this order is printed, this schedule, he's got copies, he's made all these statements, and he's just passing them on. Make all the statements to his deputy, using what he's sitting next to this table, where this one has a registration to take place. Dear Alexander Alexiyovich, this is a disgrace to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the apparatus does not work properly, it is a disrespect for the deputy corps. I'm asking you very much to give me a proper commission so that I can say from the rostrum that there is no mess in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u163	Thank you. We will certainly consider it. The Secretariat, let's consult, for a week that will set us apart from next week, and we'll make appropriate decisions that will take into account the comments, the numerous comments of our colleague. Red, Our Ukraine. Prepare Gurvo.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u164	Red, Ukrainian People's Party, Victor Yushchenka block "Our Ukraine." I'd like to make such a comment to my colleague, Deputy Solomon, regarding the activities of the national deputy Yuri Karmazin, whom I hope he loves not only the city hero of Odessa, but the whole of Ukraine, because he really is a defender of the country. Recall how recently, when Moldovan border guards seized part of the Ukrainian territory, the patriotic Communist Party did not respond. And Yuri Carmazin didn't just react to the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament, he left, he took care of it. And, thank God, some processes have begun to halt this insolence on the annexation of Ukrainian territory. But what I wanted to say was that it was not possible to cool off the ink on the newspaper sheets that reported this audacious admiration of part of the Ukrainian territory by the Moldovan border guards, as encouraged by the toothlessness and inaction of the Ukrainian executive power at the head of Chief Command Leonid Kuchma, our Moscal brothers decided, according to Moldova's example, to bite off the entire island of Tuzla in the Azov Sea by filling it with a seven-mile track of hair, as the head of the Volodymyr Yavorowski Writer's Association was already talking about today. There is a legitimate question, logically, why does Ukraine learn about the annexation of Ukrainian lands from newspapers or the Writers’ Association? Where is the guarantor of the Constitution, where are the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the Security Service, the Border Guards, and so forth? Yeah, maybe we'll take these billions out of the State budget that we're planning for the President's Administration, for the Armed Forces, for the Security Service, for the military border, and we'll give to the Ukrainian Writers' Association. I think they'd better protect Ukraine's national interests. Dear friends, I think the whole point is that the executive and commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces, our forces are raising Ukrainian society, and the power structures are not on the patriotic Cossack traditions of the Soviet Army. If the power and the power structures were patriotic, the question of both Moldova and the island of Tuzla, where four kilometers had already been poured, was left to fall three miles [3 km] asleep and seize Ukrainian territory, it would not stand. And that's why the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the power structures must return to the Cossacks, the rebel traditions, have Ukrainian Cossack Army titles, and cherish the glory of Cossack, which was left to us by our parents, who were captured in the 20th century by the resurgence of Ukrainian Cossacks in 1717-1918 in Cherkaszczina, in 1941, in Volina, by the creation of the Ukrainian rebel army. Then it'll be okay. Because if our parents and grandfathers had risen from the grave, they would not have allowed such blasphemy. I would like to say that there are Cossack traditions on the Wall. The city of Raven made a decision to celebrate the patronage of the largest Cossackian Ukrainian festival, and the Festival of the Holy Virgin was announced as the day of the city. We have built the Pokrov Cathedral, and I invite all the Ukrainian national deputies to the Festival of the Holy Virgins in the city of Raven to mention which parents you are children, to mention their Cossack roots and to be led by the future president of Ukraine, Viktor Yushchenko, who agreed to participate in these celebrations, to mention the Cossack glory and to go along with the victory of the Ukrainian idea, the Ukrainian cause, and to prevent insolent neighbors from being part of Ukrainian land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u165	There's no gurus. Phydenka, the Communist faction. Next Alexandrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u166	Stanislaw Phydenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. I'm going to give my colleague Red Basil a piece of advice that he's just made to sometimes differentiate the concept of Volin. If there's something going on that we don't have much to do, you tell the Plains region. And that's the classic Volin, or it turns out that we have it on Volin. And Volyn, she was red, she was, she was, she was, she was, she was. Dear Head, honourable fellow MPs, our constituencies! Yesterday, when we approved a large group of judges, I expressed the view that we were doing much when we approved the judges. Of course, this must be done, but it is more principled than we do. At the same time, we, the national electorate, show frank passivity and some toothlessness when it comes to our principles and persistence in the fight for the purity of judicial personnel, especially when a judge or judge grossly violates the laws, moral standards, and the oath of a judge. It turns out that even a national MP’s scrupulous attention to the gross violation of his oath by a judge to be fair and just, judged only by law, found no proper support from the leaders of all without the exception of the services and institutions that control the selection of judicial personnel and their activities. And there's a lot of them. I call it a specific example. I personally draw the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, its profile committee, the High Council of Justice, all the heads of the judiciary from the Supreme to the District Court of Appeal, asking for a thorough and objective understanding of what is being done in the Scottish Local Court of Volin. It continued to be about bad conduct, drunkenness, immorality, and the low legal culture of Necha’s head. I've already received dozens of letters and statements from the inhabitants of the Shaka region, and they call all the new and new facts of his unworthy activity. Many of them were confirmed by the Council of Judges of Volina and other controlling authorities. A new criminal case, as the prosecutor's office informed me, the Lviv Regional Qualifications Commission of Judges, although they had to study the facts on a superficial basis, had to declare him a reprimand. Judge Necha's situation was essentially saved by the head of this Makarenko commission himself. I want my respectable colleagues. To draw your attention to another new disgraceful fact which I believe is the result of the free operation of this court's head. His associate and associate judge of the same court, Krivenchuk, had recently been detained by the employees of the U.S. An open criminal case is a fact. But, Your Honor, I'm experiencing something and I'm afraid that this case is going to be closed because there's pressure on the investigation from both the district administration and the district and the judicial administration. At the same time, I'm asking the question, "Who's going to sort it out in the Shack District Court. Two of the three judges have already shown themselves to be essentially exempt from work?" I'm asking the Attorney General, the head of the Supreme Court, the head of the High Council of Justice. And at the same time, I ask you to accept this as my official parliamentary address, and I ask you to put in control of the execution of my appeal to the Onopenka profile committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u167	Alla Alexandrovska. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u168	Respectable voters! Dear colleagues! Although there are very few of them here, and it may well be that there are not some deputies here that I do not want to regard as being respected by people after the speeches we have heard here today in this room. But I would like to quote a few figures from the Cabinet of Ministers' report on the issue of poverty in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Income per person in June 2003 was only 72 per cent of the subsistence minimum. The average pension per year increased by up to 6 per cent. It's a 5-8 bracelet. One million 937 thousand 600 people in Ukraine were not paid on time. Millions of workers did not even receive salaries by bringing them to court. Their businesses have been declared bankrupt and destroyed and have often disappeared physically from the face of the earth. These murderous figures also refer to the working group of the Serp and Molot factory, declared bankrupt. The collapse of the Soviet Union has hurt the collective. The destruction in Ukraine, first of all, touched on agricultural machinery, including this plant, which was designed and constructed for engine production for the entire Soviet Union. Today, the wages of workers in this factory amount to about 10 million bracelets. How to pay them back their earnings, if nothing is done to ensure that the enterprise has orders to keep its employees employed. Today, creditors are primarily required, the factory is declared bankrupt and creditors are required to return 300 million bracelets. There are many other examples where, as a result of bankruptcy, former workers are left with blank paper in their hands, judicial decisions that have not been carried out, since the sale of their enterprises makes them all go away to creditors but does not pay wages. And these people are incurring debts for housing and utilities. They're being dragged into the courts, and they're being subjected to real terror. I believe that, for every case of bankruptcy, enterprises owned by the State must be investigated for its reasons. The perpetrators of the destruction of production must be punished. The Cabinet of Ministers should urgently develop a mechanism to pay off debts on the salaries of employees of such enterprises who are now owned by the State and declared Bankruptcy. Debt payments for housing and utility services should be made to employees of such enterprises, if they wish, on the basis of unpaid wages. I believe that these issues must be resolved as a matter of urgency today. There is another problem that is already related to health. The health funding situation is very poor. The draft budget for the following year provided funding for one bed and a floor in the regions of Ukraine at the level of 2 food bracelets and a bracelet of 70 copies for medicines. That's 70 times less than it needs to be. In fact, the financing of treatment facilities in public administration in public administration is 70 times higher. Today, there is a serious problem with providing Ukrainian citizens with high-quality medical care in central and medical institutions. We know that heart surgery is required only at the Amosova Clinic. There's no funding for this clinic. Indeed, people who come from the areas must pay about 10,000 bracelets for the operation to be performed by them. The budget code does not allow for the transfer of funds from local budgets to these central clinics. I believe that the Cabinet of Ministers should also find opportunities to finance such central specialized health care institutions in full, and the Supreme Council should amend the Budget Code so that local budgets can allocate funds for treatment in these clinics. And the last two phrases. I want to.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u169	Unplug the microphone. Orzhachowski, please, next is Radionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u170	Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Honorable chairman, colleagues, voters. In my statement from the parliamentary rostrum, I want to draw the financial bloc of the government to the problems of the functioning of local self-government. When I meet the heads of the councils of different levels in Hersonish, I draw the conclusion of their terrible administrative position because of the moneylessness and all the new inventions of government officials. Particularly on September 1, this year, local budgets have been transferred to treasury services. For rural village councils, this innovation is unacceptable because it is different from the abuse of internationally elected heads. It will not improve control over budget use, and it has also been successfully managed by audit and audit services. Additional costs have now been added to the lower budget. To introduce such innovations, self - control should first be provided with appropriate computer technology, since it is known to be in the boards. We were supposed to make it easier for our peers to work at a lower level. But they were forced to prepare additional documents, take them to the treasury. After reviewing the documents, go back to the area to order the funds two days before their release and finally get the money. And the State Budget, the local self-government authorities, is funding only 30 percent. Where to rent a car, buy gas, and a lot more. In addition, it is necessary to print 30-40 documents in order to earn a salary, depending on which of the payrolls will be counted and counted. The heads of the village, village councils of Hersonschina, such as Kalanchik, Belozersky, and many other areas, I have spent days in Winnitzina, talking with heads, demanding that the full computerization of local self - government authorities and the establishment of e - mails stop the treasury services of local budgets. By the way, someone from a light hand may have even come up with a plan to send statistics to district councils requiring them to report on whether or not there is an e - mail. I'd like to ask the employees of the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers. Someone's been down there, they've seen the reality of what's going on. Respectful government officials, the village, and the village, after a few reforms, have so dwindled that it is not the time to think about e - mail and computers. Today, the village thinks about the dry matter and how to drink water, heal, learn, and find another job. In conclusion, I would like to say and get an answer to this request from government officials. I look forward to an effective response to the pain inflicted on the representative bodies. And last of all, I think that if the government doesn't respond to this appeal today by the authorities of self-government, then it becomes clear that everything is being done to ensure that the representative bodies in the person of the councils are destroyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u171	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Get ready, probably, for the Mountain.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u172	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Like many people's deputies, of course, I made a statement and thought I would read it, but when I was under discussion, it seemed to me what would the people's deputies be talking about, which had shaken them most over the past few weeks and over the past month? Of course I'm a little surprised. I was personally shaken by the protests that took place this month in Ukraine, Kiev, including in the capital on 11 September. And you remember how surprised our power was that a busy city like Kiev had been set up by veterans on Gruszewski Street from Arsenal to the Cabinet of Ministers. What would you think? I had to participate in the negotiations by the pickets, and the power went to waste. She decided it wasn't right to make fun of this crowd. Well, of course, it was justified that, until it was intended to replace the targeted aid benefits, it was supposed to be just some kind of preparatory work. Nevertheless, the veterans said their word. What I'm saying is that, at the appeal of the Ukrainian Company, at the appeal of the Veterans Council, not only did they fight for their benefits, but it was sad that there was no intelligence in front of these veterans, which, according to the example of Dreyzer, a well-known American writer, who at the time of his being accused, what he did not share with these people, would be simple people? He said I know where I grew up! Unfortunately, many of our intelligents have forgotten where they grew up. I would like to say that this action has been concluded or not completed, and the preliminary stage is said to have ended on 30 September, and you have heard many already that the Prime Minister of Ukraine has said that, obviously, we are looking forward to finding some money from the veterans. And last of all, we were told that they don't have or that Communists are "instigating" the mass. I mean, there's absolutely no basis for that. And to confirm that, what we have heard recently, even from the Head of the Supreme Council. I quote literally what the level of Ukraine is. As much as I can say, I quote him on economic developments, the lack of significant changes to be spent on stability, but the State budget in its current dimension is our national disgrace and a concentrated assessment of the effectiveness of all power. At this rate of growth, let's say the current level of Poland, Ukraine will reach 35-40 years later. Here's your European perspective, and here's the thing about veterans. Actually, that's what they're up against.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u173	Eugene Vasilovich Gornik, please. Get ready, Weakyka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u174	Honorable MPs, citizens of Ukraine! The foreign and domestic politics of our nation, and especially its coverage in public and oligarchic media, have long resembled the theater of absurdity. But recently, this trend has accelerated in geometric progress. For example, multi-spectrum or two-species politics, it's like a gymnast practice called spaghetti. But the spaghetti can still be performed, but if you continue this exercise and tie a man in a knot, no yoga will help, the dispersion is inevitable. In such a position after signing the Yaltic Agreements, Kuchma and the company have put Ukraine in a position to dissipate it. The constitutional guarantor claims a referendum on the Europeanization of our state, forgetting that article 74 of the Constitution, as guaranteed by it, does not allow for similar referendums on economic issues. After all, Leonid the second is known as a master of no-one who is not recognized - both inside and outside of the state - referendums. But even when it comes to him, the people need to speak the truth about what they should vote for, and in particular say that the result of the treaty is the creation of a system that is binding on all participants, but 81 percent is Russian and only 9 percent are Ukrainian. Would even Russian sympathizers want such integration, which, like most of the people of Ukraine, is not against equal relations with Russia, but with the prospect of never joining the declared European Union, once again becoming an iron curtain before it? This deal can't even be called Pereyaslav-2. A military alliance was formed there, and the results were difficult to calculate. This is a well - known economic and, in the long run, political cabal. And this mirror system can't last forever. It is as artificial as the political system that existed 70 years ago. After all, she stayed that way, just changed the name from the Company to the President's Administration. Betrayal took place both in Yalta and on the Dniester, and on the Azov Sea, and on other occasions, no matter how much we talk about it. And not allowing this betrayal is the task of both the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the deputies of the district councils who took the stand against it. I also call on the members of the Ivano-Frankow District Council and other local councils to listen to their colleagues. In August 1991, Janayev's heccaste shook his hands. In September 2003, they were shaking in Kuchma. I'm predicting that this mode will end the same way. And there's only 390 days left if we don't care.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u175	You're weak. Prepare the Clouds.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u176	Honorable National Deputies, Honourable Chairman, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine. I would like to dedicate my talk to strange events, at first glance. I want to talk to you about the MP's request that I prepared on July 8, 2003. And the answer came from the Cabinet of Ministers and the Chief Audit Authority. This is: Ukrainian citizens, citizens of the Volin region, are interested in how the cost of capital construction is used effectively in Volin. This letter shows that in 2002 the Council’s district session approved the cost of capital construction of 15 million. Where did that money go? The acquisition of housing for highly qualified specialists, these are experts who seem to have become useless to Volina -- arrivals at the sum of 615 grand, reconstruction of the district administration -- 705,000 grand, reconstruction of the sessional council hall -- 493,000 grand. Now that money has been distributed. It turns out that, in fact, there were purchased apartments, spent some money, found that part of the money wasn't used, and they're in the accounts of the Mississippi -- 62 grand. And they're saying that some of the apartments have gone to the deputy heads of the county, which is 2 apartments, and the rest of the apartments purchased so far have not been distributed, which shows no ineffective use of the district budget. To repair the heating system of the house for the arrivals on Jarczuk Street(?) Expended $117 000. Imagine! The arrivals that will come to Volin, and I understand that Anatoly Josephovich the Frenchman is also present in Volin, as well as in his heat supply and such money he spent in full measure. Moreover, when the cost of renovating the administrative premises was checked, at least the work was over 4 grand. What conclusion does the examiner draw? As a result of the tests, the heads of institutions and organizations that have shown gross violations are required to remove them, and believe me, I have not heard any demands or decisions. No individual has been personally responsible for the effectiveness of spending on the Wall. To this day, we do not know who are the highly qualified specialists who will receive the rest of the apartments in Volina. I'm asking these questions to the government right now. Give the Volatile citizens an answer: who gets who we have on the Wall with high-quality personnel, that they have the right to priority housing. Why do you spend so much money on the heat supply for the reconstruction of the house, and why do you go back to my MP's request again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-03-m0.u177	Dear colleagues! The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. The next plenary session will begin at 10 a.m. on October 14. Next week's calendar plan is committee and faction work. Thank you for your attention.
