ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u1	People's deputies please take their seats. Please invite the national deputies to the session room. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:03:46]] Registered -438 Dear colleagues, I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. There are 438 national deputies registered in the hall. I want to inform you that during the break we had consultations with all members of the MPs and factions, as well as with the majority faction leaders, discussed the situation. I'm specifically talking about the issues that we've been discussing. The first question is about the draft decree on the Ukrainian-Polish parliamentary statement in relation to the 60th anniversary. I've informed the faction leaders, and I'll let you know. I had another conversation with the head of the Polish Seima, Mr. Borovski. I have expressed the positions that have taken place today during the discussion of this project, including the proposals of the people's deputies for changes, clarifications to the draft statement. I want to get back to you. The head of the Polish Seima told me, and I tell you that this document was very difficult to discuss at the Polish Seima. I was told that Poland condemned the Visla operation, which was decided by the Senate. And today, the historic challenge lies before our peoples as we continue to work. And the request of the Polish Seima in the head of the Seima to make a decision without change as an agreed option. We agreed with the faction leaders that I'm going to put this document to a vote because we don't have another way out. Your will, honourable national deputies. So I ask the people's deputies to take their seats and make a meaningful choice. We were asked to view today as government officials, as politicians, as citizens on this issue. We've discussed this before. For reasons, please let one man speak. Assadchev. Then I ask you not to insist further on motives. Hennai Josephovich and all, and we shall vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u2	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, as far as I know, had a meeting of the President with the people's deputies by noon. It would be nice for them to inform us what the President's opinion on this issue is, because this is the issue that was the meeting. I think it won't be too long for us to make a balanced decision, and I would ask you to add a word to who will speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u3	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the national party, Your Honor, Comrade Assadchev! I'm very happy and thank you for mentioning the President. I had a conversation with the President, so he asked us to accept the application. So I'm officially informing you what I was talking about. Anything else, this statement that's worked out, everything else you've discussed, please make proposals to the draft statements that the two presidents are working on. Please, Hennaday Josephovich Vudovenko. We have a document, and Parliament must make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u4	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! I am addressing you as the first Ambassador of Ukraine to Poland. When we established diplomatic relations, we started a very friendly relationship -- Ukraine-Poland. No 50 - year - olds were observed, yet it was a Jubilee date, the events on Volina, because the main thing is the development of a friendly relationship between Ukraine and Poland. Today, this statement excites, excites the situation in both ourselves and the Poles. Instead of improving our friendships, we make them worse after the approval of this statement. Next. Wisla's stock. Yes, a few years ago, even more than the Valencian presidency was condemned by the Polish Senate, but it doesn't have a decision of any legal force, it's a purely symbolic decision, and today, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you get dozens of letters from this point. I propose such a statement, and on our knees we cannot address and accept such an application. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u5	Matvienka, please. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u6	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko block. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I understand how difficult it was for us to agree on this text. But Parliament is a higher legislature. We admit that there was a tragedy, and the tragedy was mutual. And the fact that the Ukrainians died as well as the Poles is true. And if we do not record this truth, then it is unfair. And I don't think the Polish Seima can react to that truth any other way. So I would like you to put in this text just one word for the "Ukrainian and Polish people" and put it to the vote. What the Polish Seym is going to do is the problem of the Polish Seym. Let's be consistent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to say that I have addressed the Polish side twice a day, asked you to do the right thing, and I told you what the reaction would be. So, please note, I am voting on the draft decision on the Ukrainian-Polish parliamentary statement in connection with the 60th anniversary of the Volin tragedy. Please vote. [[16:10:25]] For 227 Decision taken. The factions. Next, the distinguished National MPs, the draft Supreme Council decision on information from the Ukrainian Minister's Office on the situation in Ukraine's agri-industrial complex and additional measures to address the crisis in agriculture. Please, John Tomic, a bill that has been drafted, it has been handed out in exchange for earlier. This is a 3685-d document. He must be voted in general. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u8	Missing editor for the stenogram. The second item is the purchase of grain to the Reserve at open auctions. And the proposals were from factions to recognize the work of the economic and agrarian bloc as unsatisfactory.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u9	All the suggestions are taken into account, what were the ones that were expressed?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u10	On the Conciliation Board, all suggestions are taken into account. As for the moratorium on prices on the Conciliation Council, the position was not maintained.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u11	She's been voted. Unfortunately, we need to get that position back because it was voted 314. I'm asking you to play it. What else are the observations, warnings? And positions: take measures to get the prices back on January 1st? Honorable National MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u12	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u13	Dear national MPs, since the project was adopted as a basis, we have no right to delete it, because it was voted in favour of 300 people's deputies. So I'm proposing in a document that's accepted as a basis to re-establish a position on a moratorium on prices. Second: recommend that the government take measures to recover prices on January 1. And with such amendments as have been voted on, vote in general. Is there no objection? I'm betting on the vote: the adoption of the draft Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, number 3685-d, as a whole, as a decree. Please vote. [[16:13:25]] For 113 The decision is not taken. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question. May I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues, the only thing we've agreed on and today we've been unanimous in this leadership of all factions, is that we're going to make all the decisions today. Is that what I'm saying? This is the position of the leaders. Maybe you don't agree with them, I understand. Ladies and gentlemen, we have agreed in this way during the meeting that we will now consider the procedure for sending draft laws to amend the Constitution of Ukraine in such a sequence. Please listen carefully. First. If Valentin Grigorovich Matthews is urged to vote on the voting regime, we will vote on it. Then I ask you to listen carefully to the sequence of voting. First vote on the voting procedure. The second vote is the adoption of a draft decree announced by the People’s Deputies of Matvienko. This is a document under number 3688 on the appointment of the Head of the Supreme Council and on the transmission of this document. Third vote. Well, there's no voting yet, so don't shout no. We are voting for a third decree to submit a parliamentary bill to the Constitutional Court. Well, one minute, I'll tell you what. The next one is the presidential vote, it's the third or fourth vote. Then we make a decision. If we do not make the first decision, that is, Matthew, to instruct the Chief of the Supreme Council to direct. We then make the decision that all the bills continue to be directed to the Head of the Supreme Council. In addition, there is another combined option, the first paragraph of which sounds like sending two projects at the same time to the Constitutional Court. And the second point is to assign this document to the Head of the Supreme Council now and forever, and to all others, I mean, to send this document automatically after his registration in a fixed order. Is there no objection to that? Simonenko. It's like I called it right.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u14	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to offer you the order of your motions for voting. First, we vote on the voting procedure. And then there's the Matvienka project. Next is the one you offered last. [[Combined]] Then, in turn, they vote separately. That's why I, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, offer you. Let's put them to the vote in this order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u15	Dear colleagues! As long as we don't block, we all vote on the papers, right? Then I will emphasize once again, honourable national MPs, the order of voting. The first vote is the procedure that the chairman of the regulatory committee has put to the vote. The second is the Matvienka project. The third is a draft ruling, which will have two paragraphs: to send two drafts to the Constitutional Court; second, to entrust the Head to continue to deal with the matter, i.e. to refer them to the Constitutional Court after their registration. Option four. The fourth is the presidential one. But we're giving it a chance to vote. Do we have a deal? [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, we made a deal. Please, Valentin Grigorovich Matthews, offer. Please, because I won't put any more to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u16	Dear colleagues! Third. He highlights his proposal. It's going to be the next one. First. Now we're going to vote in a nameless way so that we can come up with you to consider the draft regulations in a nameless way. If this proposal gets most of the votes of the national MPs, then the second vote will be carried out by a specific decree also in a nameless way through the Council system, i.e. cards.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u17	Dear National Deputies! Let's vote. But let's make it this way that we're going to go through this vote, if there's no result, we're going to try another combination to make a decision. I am voting on a proposal by the regulatory committee to hold a vote now inadvertently to hold a closed ballot on this issue. Is that correct? Please, there's a vote. You're ready, aren't you? [[16:19:47]] For 210 The decision is not taken. We can't show by factions. I am voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling number 3688, introduced by the national MP, Matthewenko, who reported. To establish that the bill submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with section 13 of the Constitution of Ukraine, is being sent immediately to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to reach a conclusion that its text is in conformity with the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine after the registration of the bill. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. [[16:20:52]] For 210 The decision is not taken. I'll bet you a vote. Yes, a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Added Cost Tax is being announced for consideration. [[on rural social infrastructure]] I'm asking you, honourable faction leaders, to gather yourselves, but you and I have agreed on such a procedure. And conduct this procedure. We'll go around the circle, but we've agreed that we trust each other. Please, Tsushko Vasil Petrovich, on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u18	A faction of Ukrainian socialists, Cuzko. Ladies and gentlemen of the people! We were looking at the bill yesterday. It was.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u19	Please calm down, take your seats. We're going through another matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u20	On the part of the faction “Our Ukraine” on the part of the Hubsky faction, it was requested that everything relating to Danish raw materials be removed from the bill. And then the people's deputies offered to vote. Our committee has proposed that the bill should be voted on in the light of these proposals. For Mr. Matvienkov, colleague of Matvienkov, I repeat, the provisions of the Act provide that the Act shall be in force until the 2004 State Budget Bill provides for compensation for the APC, the mechanism will be set down by other laws. If compensation is available, the law shall terminate. So, Mr. Matvienkov, take your comments off. He's already got it. There is therefore a proposal to vote on the law in second reading and in general. Thank you. Once again, the bill provides for the transfer of the social sphere to local authorities so that there will be no VAT and renews the value-added tax regime in force until 1 January 2004. If, once again, it is very important, if the Government provides for compensation in the 2004 budget, then the law terminates. That's the end of the line. With regard to the Dalish scheme, it was withdrawn from the bill. The proposal is to vote on it in the second and in the whole. Thank you. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, I am proposing a second reading committee and, as a whole, a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Tax Added on Social Infrastructure Objects in the Village. This number is 3022. Please vote. [[16:25:26]] For 348 The law is passed. A draft law amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on Value Added Tax is being announced for consideration. [[on the cash accounting method of PEC enterprises]] Kaputin Viktor Volodymyrovich, please. I'm asking you to work hard!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill was adopted in the first reading. Between the first and the second readings to our committee, there were no comments from the National Deputies, so I have been instructed by the Committee to read out the Committee’s decision on questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u23	You don't have to if you make a positive decision. Let's just end it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u24	I'm sorry, we have to read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u25	Please read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u26	This is exactly the case when you have to read it. Having considered at its meeting the draft law amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Added Cost Tax, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Lithuania, the Committee believes that the proposed bill will affect the issue of improving payment discipline in the field of the fuel and energy sector and budgeting. According to the committee, the fundamental conceptual disadvantage is that the adoption of a separate bill on this issue may have a negative impact on the financial situation of taxpayers. The Committee considers it appropriate to take into account the draft Ukrainian Act amending article 11 of the Law on Added Cost Tax, number 2006 as a proposal for a draft law amending the Law on Added Cost Tax, number 1277-1, adopted by the Supreme Council in its first reading. On the basis of this, the committee decided to propose to the authors of the bill to make similar proposals to the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Value Added Tax, registration number 1277-1. [[on improving the effective VAT management mechanism]] So the room has to decide on this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u27	I put to the vote, honourable national MPs, on the adoption of the second reading and generally as a law, because there has been a note of the draft law amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Value Added Tax. [[on the cash accounting method of PEC enterprises]] In the second reading and generally as a law. [[16:27:39]] For 271 The law is passed. Dear people. Asadchev's procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u28	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to remind you that this morning the People's Deputy of Ivanov proposed that we consider the issue of the Constitution after 16 hours and we voted in favour of it and only 131 votes. It didn't pass. So you have no right now, because this special decision has been made. So you're breaking the procedure now, trying to consider this issue after a break. It should be made with special care in order to consider it. I'm just reminding you because you probably forgot about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, I know I have no rights, no responsibilities. But we're on the Conciliation Council, the leaders of all the MP factions, we've made this decision, and I've given it to you, that's the decision. I don't think we have the right to block the initiative of either the President or the Parliament. We have to make a decision on these two documents, and I think we'll take it. Ladies and gentlemen, please note that we should now consider the draft Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine, but the committee says it is not ready. I ask you to write down now the commission: "To entrust the committee to review the draft Civil Procedure Code in the first plenary week of September and to make a decision. Please write this down. Is there no objection? Don't let them put it away. All of it. The draft Code of Criminal Procedure is announced before consideration. The head, please, with a motive. Then Bespaly, yes, no questions asked. On the rostrum, please, Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u30	Sergey Golovatius, Block of Yulia Timoshenko. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, with regard to both procedural codes, I would like to say immediately. The problem is that these codes are hanging from us as a duty to join the Council of Europe. But even more so, now the Council of Europe, the Assembly is interested not in the formal adoption of codes, but in the degree to which these codes meet European standards, the procedural safeguards for the protection of human rights. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. First. Two proposals on procedural codes. They can't be torn apart by committees. The CDC is on one committee and the KPC is on the other. Because CPC is not law enforcement. KPC is a detention and deprivation, it's a human right. And both trials in court refer to the procedural activity of the judiciary. That's why I'm offering both codes. Both codes should be the same on the legal committee. This time. And the second. I offer you, however, as Head of the Supreme Council, that we do not have any problems for the future with the Council of Europe, so that we do not have a complaint before the European Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u31	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u32	Wait, wait. I'm proposing that we get an expertise from the Council of Europe on both codes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u33	Please, Hennady Andriyovich, I ask that you inform the people's deputies about how the Codex work went.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u34	As far as the adoption of the first reading of the Criminal Procedure Code is concerned, a working group was formed under the authority of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Members of parliament, scientists, and leaders of the Ukrainian law enforcement system entered. We've been giving this code to scientific institutions. I personally met with representatives of the Council of Europe, discussed all the issues, all the questions of principle, they were laid down in this code. One thing I can say is that this code, which is now being proposed, is much more democratic than what is now in force. As for the Committee in general, whether it's law enforcement or judicial reform, the Supreme Council has been defined. And you don't have to think that there's less staff in the committee than there is in the Judicial Reform Committee. I suggest we now adopt the Criminal Procedure Code in our second reading. Believe me, he's the most democratic.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, one minute, now Bespallian, then Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u36	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to those arguments that I am fully joining, I want to add this argument from our faction. We were given three thick volumes literally 15 minutes ago. Under such conditions, not only the experts to whom it belongs but also the deputies could not get to know the document. Next. Gennady Andriyovich said that law enforcement officials and their experts were looking into it. But it was not considered by another, nor was it considered by the defenders. And this is also an equally important aspect, so this is a comprehensive document, it's not an internal statute for law enforcement and militia, and so on. So I still have 12 seconds, so the supply and position of our faction, and we insist on this, to move the consideration of this code to the same procedural term. That'll make sense to work them together and accept them. Please consider this.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u37	Thank you. Valentina Matthew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u38	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to address Hennady Andrievich Vasiliev. The criminal procedure code offered to us today may indeed be much more democratic, but it needs to be learned to the people's deputies when we study 575 pages of it, and three parts of it we only got when we register before tonight's meeting. So this is a gross violation of the Supreme Council Rules. And I suggest you take that question off the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u39	Dear National Deputies! That's how I propose now. I want the protocol to be recorded. The draft Code of Criminal Procedure was adopted on the first reading almost two months ago. All those who wanted to make the amendments now I propose to postpone the second reading to the first plenary week of September, but at the same time I will assign the secretariat to see about the vacations of the workers who are on this committee, as well as the secretarial staff, because they are going on vacation, they will not work, then they will say again that we have not studied because there is no time. On the first plenary week, first, the CSI, the CSI, and the task force that prepared these papers together with the relevant committees to bring it up and accept it in the first half of September of the month. Please write this down. Have a seat, please. We've made up our minds. A draft law on the order of election and dismissal of a professional judge by the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich. We work actively, quickly, and as amended.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u40	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! There's no need to argue now that the law is urgent, because only yesterday did we do business with you and were dissatisfied with the procedure for the selection of judges on an indefinite basis and their dismissal. The bill was approved in the first reading by a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on May 15 of this year, and in due course the committee finalized it into a second reading regime. Nearly 130 proposals were made by national deputies, 4/5 of which are included in the project. It is enough to note that this bill provides for the moment when the judge’s conduct regarding his election is violated, the State Court Department is obliged to publish in the media where the judge’s justice works. That's me to the general. As far as the amendments are concerned. Perhaps in traditional mode, is there a note?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u41	Dear National Deputies! Who insists on amendments that have not been taken into account? Roman Zvaric, please fix number.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u42	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I'm not a reformer, but I'm asking you to listen to me, because we've just received very disturbing information. So this is the information that went to the faction of our Ukraine. According to the information we received, the cases that took place in the election of Mayor Mukachev are now referred to the defendants of the Psychovsky District Court at the direction of the Deputy Chief of Staff of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. This is a gross violation of judicial law. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, given that this is about elections, I would very much ask that you give a protocol commission to the two profile committees to deal with these facts.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u43	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! When the issue was first raised, right after the election, the commission was given to the State Building Committee, directly to the head of the committee, and they're dealing with the issue, and they're keeping it under control. Who has the urge to make adjustments? You don't? Please, Vasilyev Hennaday Andriyovich, as amended.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u44	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! I want to speak as the initiator of this bill, first of all. What was involved in the introduction of the bill? We're looking here, in this room, at hundreds of judges. We can't figure out what kind of expert he is, how he feels about the case. Therefore, I was invited to consider article 8 of this codex. Open up and see. It has been suggested that as soon as the procedure for the indefinite election of the judge is in place, the qualified commission should inform the relevant Supreme Council committee within three months. The relevant committee should then immediately lead to the knowledge of the deputies. The deputy from whose district the judge is elected on an open-ended basis shall have the right from the day he passes through all the courts, to take part, to accompany. All of this has been destroyed. This procedure is terminated, and a second proposal is made, only from the beginning of the work of the Higher Qualification Commission here in Kiev has the procedure begun. I don't agree with that. Then. I accepted that law and position in the first reading. It has been reported that violations of the procedure for the selection of judges have been reported uninterrupted in the media. So I propose to keep article 8 in my editor's office, which I said should be monitored and accompanied by this process, and also to vote in violation of the judge's election procedure, reports the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u45	Please, Santa.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u46	I think you can agree with Hennady Andryovich's suggestions. Because they do not conflict with the ideology and meaningful interpretation of this law. We can accept that offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, no objection? Let's agree. But I would have asked the committee if the first reading had passed a decision, but it was not possible for me to make my own decisions. Please, Bespali, your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u48	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. 76th right, I'm paying attention. There is a standard regulatory rule in the law: the decision to elect a judge is made on an indefinite basis by an open, non-fixed vote by a majority of the Supreme Council's constitutional composition. This rule is in direct contravention of the norm. I'm not going to say which norm is better, one or the other. But we cannot by law adopt a norm that is directly contrary to our Rules without agreeing with the Rules. That's why my proposal was the next one. If we accept such a standard, we should end up writing it down in the Rules. That is, the final position of the corresponding article of the Rules, to duplicate it, or we'll have endless factions of blocking the rostrum and so on, because we're creating a conflict of law with the hands of the legal committee. So I don't understand the motives for rejecting this amendment. I think that's a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u49	Thank you. Please, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u50	In fact, why this amendment was rejected is the following. Dear colleagues, the law, we know with you, has a higher legal power in relation to the acts of Parliament, particularly the regulations that approve the Rules. So if you and I provide for this kind of order of voting in law essentially, and I point out that this is an open vote, and the Rules provide for a secret vote in fact. That is, we foresee that the law should provide for a more democratic and open procedure for the approval of judges. I agree that it may be useful to reflect in the final positions that the regulations of the Supreme Council should be properly addressed. This proposal was then in line with the content of the corresponding position, as reflected in the final committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u51	Then we don't have to vote if we agree? You don't?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u52	Yes, we agree with everything we foresee in the transitional regulations on making the necessary changes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u53	What other comments? What other warnings? National MP Martinyuk, please. Then Vasilyev will.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u54	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. With regard to the amendments to the Rules and so forth, a new edition has been introduced today, a completely new edition of the draft law on the Rules. But I want to go back to what I just asked you, Deputy Bespaly. Because in this bill we're setting an incredible standard, we're allowing judges to choose twice in this bill. I mean, if the judge didn't get support in the session room, we're giving him another chance to re-elect. On what basis do you apply this standard?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u55	What's the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u56	It's the Bespalogo Correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u57	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'll give you an answer. Dear colleagues, in fact, the draft law, the second reading edition, provides for the following formula, which, indeed, should, when the Supreme Council, when deciding by a judge, establish that there is a basis for the Committee of the Supreme Council to determine additional circumstances that were not known to it at the time of the decision, then a re-vote may be taken by the committee. Without such a decision by the Supreme Council, it is impossible.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u58	Please, who else has the amendment? None. A committee proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u59	The proposal of the Committee and the Chief Legal Authority is to adopt the law on second reading, and the committee recommends that it be adopted in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u60	I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading as a whole as a bill of law on the order of election and discharge of a professional judge by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. So let's sort this out. [[16:45:51]] To - 292 The law is passed. A draft law on mandatory State social and health insurance is announced for consideration. Third reading. Please, head of the committee. Who will report from the committee? Mikola Efremovich, please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, you have a bill, a bill for mandatory national social health insurance. I think given the situation that just this morning was a comparative table, you probably didn't get to know him.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u62	Here we go, here we go.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u63	At the same time, I would like very carefully to have you read on the last page of the remark of the Chief Legal Authority to the draft Ukrainian Law on Stately Social Insurance. This bill was adopted in a second reading by the national deputies of the previous vocation. Since then, 206 comments have been received on this bill. Of these 206 comments, most of the comments were taken into account and some of the articles were written in a completely new edition and with a new interpretation. I would like the national deputies to get to know them as well. I think, given how much this bill was lobbying, a lot of people didn't get to know each other. At the same time, I want to say relatively, stop at those remarks that aren't taken into account, because those that are taken into account and considered editorially, I'm not going to stop.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u64	Mikola Efremovich. I'm sorry, my dear colleague. Who among the national deputies insists on amendments that have not been taken into account? Who insists? None.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u65	Wait, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I think we should read the amendments that are rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u66	People's deputies can see, they can't insist. If they insist, please let them specifically call the amendment - and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u67	I'm calling it an amendment. Page 27, Alexander Mikolayovich Stoyan, article 13.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u68	Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u69	Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u70	I beg of you, fellow national MPs. There's a bill before you. If you see that your corrections are not taken into account, raise your hand -- I'll give you my word. I can't see my arm. I'll put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u71	Wait. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not report on the decision taken by the committee. This bill was adopted by the Professional Committee: not to vote, but to refer it to the Supreme Council for consideration. I want to warn you as a 34-year-old doctor that the adoption of this bill will completely bury health care. What is more, in the Department of Public Health, the General Legal Authority is warned about the creation of a Health Insurance Fund that provides for the accumulation of money and gives extremely large powers. In this regard, as head of the committee and as a practitioner, I would like to say that I would like to take this law as suggested by the Chief Legal Authority. And it suggests that it be corrected for rereading the third reading or accepted in the third reading. I'd like to send it back to a third reading to consider the issues on which there are observations and to adopt a normal law, not a law that will not work.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, let's do this, if the head of the committee is speaking and referring to the Chief Executive, then the committee's decision should be added. There is no committee decision. This is your personal position, and there is a room that has to be defined for this. Let us be consistent and objective in this regard. Cibenko, please, then Assadchev. As soon as your revisions are not taken into account, we'll be on our way. Well, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u73	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, you and I have listened to the committee's position. I thought it was the committee's position, not the committee's head. And we have to consider this position, this is the first. It's different. In fact, a document was distributed today, today, and it needs to be worked with. And third. Dear colleagues, a number of policies have been taken to introduce the insurance principle. And we have to consider what today a person from his salary counted on social insurance, pension insurance, there, there, seven. At that rate of salary, I'm sorry if you're going to stay with a person instead of pay. So, dear colleagues, I still urge you to listen to the profile committee's opinion and to make a decision today to re-enter the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u74	I want to tell my respectable colleagues again. Let's not mix two things up. I'm here to make the decision that the Supreme Council will make. The head of the committee and the committee, if the committee had made a decision, should have been reported. There is no solution. So I'm going to conclude, this is the position of head of the committee. We'll see.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u75	The committee's decision is to send it to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u76	He's gone. Give it to me. No, I don't need to say that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u77	I don't think so. I signed it myself.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u78	Please, Nigger. There is a position of committee not to consider this law. That's clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u79	Dear colleagues! We've got something amazing going on. I'm surprised at the position of head of the committee. Is there, is there no committee decision? You report the committee's decision, not your own. I am also surprised to learn why the head of the health - care committee is opposed to insurance. If there is anything imperfect, please, you have had the opportunity to improve, to bring to us a perfect bill. Instead of improving it, offering it to you, you're against it. This means that you are holding back the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u80	I'd like to give you an answer. The point is, the committee's decision to refer it to the Supreme Council. My personal, I mean. Today, neither medical facilities nor medical facilities nor the legal basis for the adoption of this law are ready for action. I'm telling you like a professional.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u81	Thank you. Lilia Grigorovich. And we'll vote. There's going to be a vote, that's all. We'll listen to the doctor. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u82	Dear National Deputies! I am that national MP who voted the bill in the first and second readings. In fact, today we are working in an extremely difficult regime, but let us pay attention to what the Law Department says. The Legal Authority states that the bill can be supported in taking their comments into account. The committee decided to review the bill to the Supreme Council. I think we need to make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u83	I'll put it to a vote, please. Since this is the third reading, I am voting on the adoption of the third reading and, as a whole, as a law, the draft of the National Social Insurance Act. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u84	We don't vote. We don't vote. We don't vote. [[16:54:12]] For-200
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u85	The decision is not taken. I'm voting on re-reading this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u86	Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u87	But on condition, in the first plenary week, we're looking at this document in September. Please vote. [[16:54:40]] For 275 Decision taken. I'd like to ask the committee leaders to express their position on the bill. As a special point of view, your particular thought is to speak. A draft law amending Ukraine's implementing laws and the State Enforcement Service is being announced for consideration. Mikola Vasilovich Onichuk the reporter. Please, let's go to the repairs right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u88	Dear colleagues, the committee invites you to approve in the second reading and as a law amending the law on the State Executive Service and the State Executive Service. You know that today there is perhaps no more important task in this area of how to make the state executive service more effective and effective. I inform you that 127 comments and suggestions have been made to the committee. And only four of them are rejected. So the committee has approved this bill and proposes to do so to the Supreme Council, unanimously.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u89	Thank you. Who insists on these four amendments that are out of the question? You don't? I'm betting on a second reading vote and generally as a bill to amend the laws of Ukraine on the enforcement and enforcement of the State. Please vote. [[16:56:17]] For 322 Decision taken. I'm reminding you. For, the adopted law is 322, which is the Cabinet of Ministers project. I think you understand who this is about. The law is passed. Thank you. The draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Act on Professional Associations, Their Rights and Guarantees of Activities is being announced for consideration. [[second reading]] Vernon Leonid Mikhailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u90	Dear National Deputies! On May 21, in this room, I reported this law on a second reading, and it was adopted. But in view of the fact that several other amendments had been found by the Chief Legal Authority and had brought them to the table. They're given to you. No one has any comment to make today. Therefore, the Committee on Social Policy and Work proposes to consider the bill and to adopt it again on second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u91	I am voting on the proposal of a second reading committee and, as a whole, the bill of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Act on Professional Associations, Their Rights and Guarantees of Activities. Please vote. [[16:57:53]] For 372 The law is passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u92	Thank you. Now the unions are working.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u93	Oh, my God. The draft Act approving the National Youth Support Programme 2003-2008 is being announced for consideration. As reported by Catherine Semenovna Samoylik, chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u94	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The draft law that we are currently looking at came from 137 amendments and proposals in preparation for consideration in the second reading. I want to say that they all referred to issues of social protection for young people. And we've practically counted them all. Clearly, this has made the program not only more extensive but also meaningful. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine rejected only five amendments that were contrary to the current legislation and the Constitution of Ukraine. Especially after the repairs? I just want to ask you to vote because almost all of your amendments were accepted by 99.9. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, when there are no warnings, I am voting on the second reading and generally on the bill of approval of the National Youth Support Programme 2003-2008. Please vote. [[16:59:41]] For 397 The law is passed. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the distribution of audiovisual works and phonographs is being announced for consideration. If you insist, have the national MP write the application, I'll read it. All of it! Please. Matthew Vladimir Josephovich will pass it on to me, I'll read it. You don't have to! Finally, at the end of the day, make a statement. Please, Vladimir Josephovich. Rudzkowski's procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u96	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, the 20th time for this session is asked the same question about the audio vote. Someone in the government wants to destroy a competitive sector in Ukraine, a highly technological sector. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, it would be moral to remove this issue from the vote if we were to support and protect national interests. We need to stop acting under the dictatorship from beyond the ocean. Remove that question from the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u97	The chairman of the committee is Stanislaw Ivanovich Gurenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u98	Gurenko, head of the Economic Policy Committee. Dear colleagues and dear colleague Rudzkowski, we are now looking at the wrong bill. We're looking at a bill called the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Distribution of Audiovisual Copies and Phonograms. It's about protecting intellectual property mostly. The bill was adopted on the first reading of February 6, 2003, and the committee, as you can see, has long worked on the bill, national MPs and other legislators have made 52 proposals, 42 of which are counted, 10 rejected. The committee proposes a draft Ukrainian Act on the distribution of audio-visual works and phonograms, to be adopted in second reading and in general as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u99	If there's no objection, I'm going to put to the vote a proposal for a second reading committee and, in general, a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Distribution of Audiovisual works and phonographs. Please vote. It's a completely different law, it's not the law that he meant. Please vote. [[17:03:04]] For 368 The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to appease our colleague Yvchenko, I will read out his statement: "In connection with the technical misunderstandings during the vote on the Ukrainian-Polish statement concerning the events on Volina, I voted against and the system declared "yes". Please sign my signature." I have made a statement, but it is unfortunate whether, fortunately, the Rules of Reference do not provide for the withdrawal of signatures. A draft law on the right of ownership of individual types of property is being announced for consideration. Vladimir. Yes, Demyohin, please, Vladimir Demyohin. Now let's swap places, put them on. We will consider a draft law amending some of Ukraine’s laws in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition. So we're swapping places. Demjochin, the first deputy head of the committee, reports
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u100	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues are members of the people. On March 6th, we adopted a draft law with you on first reading, "Amendment of Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine", No. 1080. In accordance with the decision adopted, the Committee on Economic Policy finalized the bill and decided at its meeting to recommend that the draft law be adopted on first reading and in general. The need to amend Ukrainian laws that regulate anti-monopoly legislation was due to the entry into force of the Law on Protection of Economic Competition. The law has significantly increased the issues relating to the legal regulation of economic competition entrusted to the Antimonopoly Committee. In general, 181 legislative proposals have been submitted to the draft law. The majority is accounted for. Specifically. National Deputy Ryabikin: 9 submitted, 8 accounted for; Budzigan: 61, 61 accounted for; Matveyev: 13, 13 accounted for; Vasyunik's national deputy: 1 proposal taken into account; Bespaly's national MP: 81 proposal, 15 taken into account; Akopian, Sharov's national deputies: 11, 2 accounted for; Seminouk, 5.5 were rejected. The Chief Legal Office made 3 comments on the bill under consideration. The Committee has taken 2. Please support the Committee's decision and take it on second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u101	Boris Bespali, please correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u102	Well, I wanted to pay attention to the 11th amendment, where the competence of the Antimonopoly Committee is subject to such unique verification powers as to "checking the subjects of farming -- well, normal, unification." What kind of unity? There's no such thing as an organ of government. What authorities: the Supreme Council of Ukraine? Then it is written, what authority: the executive authority, the courts can test it? What does "authorities" mean? "Local Self-Government Authorities" -- why would that be? The administration's organs, well, it's not even clear what. To monitor their compliance with the requirements of economic competition legislation. One of these impertinent, absurd norms is enough to reject the bill. By the way, I'd like to pay attention, dear colleagues. It's a neutral look. The protection of economic competition here is given a new edition of the absolute law on the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. I'm asking you to explain how you're going to test the Supreme Council, for example, the courts and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u103	Thank you. Please. No, he's asking for answers. Explain, and then we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u104	I believe that this amendment should be put to the vote. We haven't discussed it in committee once.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u105	I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the national MP Bespalo Boris Jakovitch. [[17:07:36]] For 131 The decision is not taken. Committee proposal, please. Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u106	We propose to take this amendment into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u107	No, she didn't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u108	I mean, I mean, to accept the results of the vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u109	Who else has a note? Boris Bespali, please, repair number.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u110	Well, first of all, I want to go to the MPs who didn't vote for the amendment. So we just raised it, wrote down a rule that makes our Parliament unique in the world. So, 22nd Amendment. See what he has to say, especially to entrepreneurs. What's right in the committee is not my proposal, it's my proposal, and I suggest that it be edited and removed, that employees be involved in internal affairs, customs and other law enforcement agencies to ensure that the law enforcement case is handled, that economic competition is protected, particularly in the case of investigations, including the collection and removal of evidence, the imposition of property arrests, documents, other media. This is your vote, Your Honor. So I suggest this, just inexplicably, which rule is completely removed. This is not a repressive body that conducts investigations. What do we do with the Antimonopoly Committee? So I'm asking you to support my amendment to remove these incomprehensible standards, and I'm proposing that you refuse to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u111	I'm putting to the vote amendment number 22 of the people's MP Bespalogo, this is page 16. [[17:09:44]] For 271 Correction counted. Just a minute. We're going after the amendments, then for the reasons. Just a minute. Please, Bezpali. Do you still have a note?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u112	I thank you, honourable deputies, for your support, but it's not my fault that I'm forced to take the floor, because you see what standards are set here. In principle, I think it would be best if the committee now itself offered to re-read it, because, for example, my 28th amendment. Look what the committee is offering us. What does the Antimonopoly Committee have? Applying to the authorities is essential for consideration of the application and so forth. It is we who grant the Antimonopoly Committee the right of legislative initiative. Because the authorities are the Supreme Council, it's the court, and so on. I suggested that we replace the executive organs with just one more thing. So I ask the committee to take this amendment into account and then to make, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, a proposal to transfer it to read again, because it's full of police standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u113	We have discussed all the amendments for a long time, and I propose that we put them to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u114	I'm putting to the vote amendment number 28 of the people's MP Bespalogo, but I want to say. I think he's right. Amendment 28 of Bespalogo’s People’s Deputy, page 17. [[17:11:27]] For 371 Decision taken. Correction accepted. Do you still have a warning, Boris Jakovitch? Why don't we take the other ones off? Let's do some repairs. Repair number. Boris Bespali.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u115	Thank you. Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, I have to draw your attention to such strange moments of this law. That's why I can't say all the things. 42 revisions. I propose to delete the following text, which gives the anti-monopoly committee the following right: "to accept draft laws of Ukraine, acts of the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, other central and local authorities which apply there to anti-monopoly legislation." So we're giving the antitrust committee the veto right at the previous stage with regard to draft laws, acts by the President of Ukraine. So we do it, we put it over the President, you know? And this, I think, is only because this law has such a neutral title, "To make changes to certain laws of Ukraine," so I propose that this rule be removed, of course, absurd. And yet I'm going back to my proposal not to support this law in that way, because we're really going to make fun of the whole world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u116	Dear National Deputies! May I have your attention, please? Now, one minute. The situation here is quite tense. Now let's vote for the second reading again, because there's a number of disagreements. Just a minute. For the second reading again. I am voting for the second reading of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition. We should probably work here. Please vote. [[17:14:31]] For 367 From the Black man's motives, please. We've already passed that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u117	I'm motivated by this. Dear colleagues, I asked for the floor before the vote. But you did the right thing by voting for the second reading. But at the same time, I want to make this point. One side of the case was presented here. In fact, there were people here who lobby for the interests of entrepreneurs. But there is another side to the matter. There are mass cases of distortions of competition, mass cases of unfair competition, conspiracies, price increases, and tariffs. And that's what we have to deal with. In this regard, the Antimonopoly Committee should be strengthened, but within normal reasonable limits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u118	Catherinechuk, please, the faction of our Ukraine. Then Karmazin, he hasn't spoken in a while. I see everything. Very short.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u119	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I would like to remind you that the faction "Our Ukraine" required information about the missing national MPs. I'd like to ask you to publish a list of those missing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u120	I think because we're not voting right now. I've lost meaning. Come to me, I'll give you this list, please. Please, Karmazin. Not all of them, I see. It's been Carmazine for a long time. Then Semenyuk, then Assadchev. And we're voting on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u121	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Now it's not a very good thing, they've overturned a law that's not very bad, even though that's what it is. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you're a state man, I want you to think about it. Now in Odessa, about 200 people came to me with reports of a monopoly on gasoline, an increase in gas prices. At all bays, there is exactly one bracelet of ninety - nine copies. There's evidence of that, there's statements, there's videos, there's audio clips, I sent them to the Attorney General's Office. The Attorney General's office doesn't. The Antimonopoly Committee cannot protect the interests of Ukrainian citizens because it has no authority. So Volodymyr Mikhailovich, it's not very good now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u122	Okay, thank you. Semenyuk, then Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u123	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! When there was an economic competition law in the session hall in the past, I was the main opponent. And I said, you can't give authorization to the Antimonopoly Committee without setting the criteria for monopolies. Whether it's the price, whether it's the product, whether it's in the regions of Ukraine, whether it's in the regions of the region, the area, etc. All my suggestions, unfortunately, were not taken into account. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I can say today that all the observations that I've made, most of them, are consistent with the science department. So let me ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, if we have an observation from the science department, then the committee should, by bringing it into the session room, report before that -- whether he counted them or not. Then the bill will go faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u124	Thank you. Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u125	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I just want to say for the transcript that those amendments that have been voted on, deleted, can no longer be transmitted for re-reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u126	I think that's right. A draft law on ownership of individual types of property is announced for consideration. Reporter - Vladimir Josephovich Matthews, deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy May I have your attention, fellow officers?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u127	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Economic Policy, People's Management, Property and Investment prepared for review by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on second reading the draft Ukrainian Law on the Right of Property to Certain Property, registration No. 1143. The bill was adopted on first reading in July 2002 for re-second reading in December 202, and 31 proposals were sent to the bill, of which 20 were taken into account by the Committee, 11 were rejected. The Committee proposes a draft Ukrainian law on re-reading the draft Ukrainian law on the right of ownership of individual types of property, registration number 1143. The bill was adopted on first reading in July 2002 for re-second reading in December 202, and 31 proposals were sent to the bill, of which 20 were taken into account by the Committee and 11 were rejected. The Committee proposes a draft law on the right of ownership of certain types of property to be adopted on second reading as a whole. The relevant draft regulation has been prepared and submitted to the management.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u128	Yes, Alexander Bandurka, your amendment, please. Alexander Bandurka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u129	Dear Head, reverend Vladimir Josephovich! When the first, second reading was discussed, I spoke and suggested that we add "development, manufacture, purchase, use operational technology."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u130	What's this amendment, what's the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u131	I said that in the presentation, when I proposed a second reading again, why didn't it count? Now we're not going to accept it again, and we're going to send it to the third reading. You can't create a Security Service monopoly, we did it in the 37th year. And the IMF and the Armed Forces are depriving themselves of that right. There's an Operational Search Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u132	I would like to draw the attention of the Ukrainian people's deputies to the fact that this draft law has been submitted by the Government, not the Communist faction or some other faction. So if the Government cannot agree on the interests of the two agencies, i.e. the Security Service and the Ministry of the Interior, whose interests are advocated by the Bandurka Deputy, I will tell you that we are losing the public administration of these matters at all. This is not the first and most recent example of the loss of public administration by important public processes. I'll tell you very simply: what's happening in the food market today is also “On the right of ownership of certain types of property” shall be read as a whole. The relevant draft regulation has been prepared and submitted to the management.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u133	Yes, Alexander Bandurka, your amendment, please. Alexander Bandurka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u134	Dear Head, reverend Vladimir Josephovich! When the first-second reading was discussed, I spoke and suggested that we add "development, manufacture, purchase, use operational technology."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u135	What's this amendment, what's the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u136	I said that in the presentation, when I proposed a second reading again, why didn't it count? Now we're not going to accept it again, and we're going to send it to the third reading. You can't create a Security Service monopoly, we did it in the 37th year. And the IMF and the Armed Forces are depriving themselves of that right. There's an Operational Search Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u137	I would like to draw the attention of the Ukrainian people's deputies to the fact that this draft law has been submitted by the Government, not the Communist faction or some other faction. So if the Government cannot agree on the interests of the two agencies, i.e. the Security Service and the Ministry of the Interior, whose interests are advocated by the Bandurka Deputy, I will tell you that we are losing the public administration of these matters at all. This is not the first and most recent example of the loss of public administration by important public processes. I'll tell you very simply: what's happening in the food market today is also an example of the State's loss of economic governance. And that's why we're not going anywhere. I ask you whether we will accept this law in the form in which the Cabinet of Ministers proposes, or whether we will be too heavy to do so further, stressing in this way that the State is losing its rule, including by force.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u138	Stanislaw Gurenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u139	Gurenko, head of the Economic Policy Committee. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to this very moment that General Bandurko was talking about, and he was a stumbling block that delayed the adoption and consideration of this law. Indeed, we are dealing with the collision of two points of view. Repeated meetings were held at which seemingly agreed decisions were made, followed by one, and a second, the department sent us a different point of view, which was different from what seemed to have been worked together. There have been many discussions on this subject, consultations with both our lawyers and the government. We believe that more public interests today are protecting the formulation that is presented in the project you are proposing. A vote is required. I'd like the people's deputies to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u140	I'm voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Property Rights Act for individual types of property. Please vote. The Cabinet of Ministers project. Please vote. [[17:23:13]] For 215 For 215, no decision is taken. Please, Nigger. Nigger microphone. Let's work fast. We still have a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u141	Dear colleagues, I cannot help but conclude. Stanisław Ivanovich said that there was a collision of two points of view. When two points of view collide, a third wins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u142	I'll put it to the vote again, taking into account the situation. A draft law on the right of ownership of individual types of property on second reading and generally as a law. The committee may insist, please, and you may decide. Please vote everyone. [[17:24:17]] For-191 I thank you for messing with the Cabinet's project, taking the document off the table. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain activities is being announced for consideration. Polack, please, Larissa Eugene. Let's go straight to the repairs, if there is, Larissa Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u143	It's a draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u144	May I have your attention, because a weak woman's voice, please listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u145	The draft law, which proposed amendments to the existing Law on the licensing of certain economic activities, set three objectives. First, it is the creation of a single transparent licensing system. Secondly, the distribution of authority between central and local licensing authorities. And thirdly, detailing, clarifying certain provisions. A great deal of work has been done by the Committee. 83 amendments have been made, 77 of which have been taken into account, and 6. Committee decision: We request the adoption of this law on second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u146	From the government, please, there was a warning that the government would like to make this statement. Is there a government position? None. Who insists on their amendments? Please, Tsuzmuk, then Kuzmuk. As amended, let's be specific.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u147	Chush, the Socialist faction. Dear rapporteur, respectable Vladimir Mihajlovich. When the bill was adopted on first reading, we asked the Enterprise Committee that, already, this is the third time, Parliament was considering that they should not be licensed under the Banking Act, the Special Law, the Financial Services Act and the Law that regulates, a separate law that regulates the licensing of tobacco and alcohol. Unfortunately, this law does not take this into account. I repeat to the second reading. Therefore, either this should now be removed from the rostrum and the law should be voted on as a whole, or it should be re-readed. And there is a draft order by Burjak, Tsuko on the second reading, or let them remove it from the rostrum, which is not regulated by this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u148	This is the law that is within the competence of the committee, and we will be determined by the result of the vote. Who else insists on their amendments? I'm sorry, Alexander Kuzmuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u149	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, Larissa Eugene! The bill contains some things that conflict with existing legislation. First. The use of a radio frequency resource is not an economic activity. Only yesterday did we adopt the Telecommunications Act, which regulates those issues, in our second reading. I suggest, I urge you to delete part three, part three, paragraph 10 of the new draft law. And in the proposed wording of article 9 of the law, delete paragraphs 39 and 40 which contradict the existing legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u150	Committee position. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u151	The answer is first. First. The Committee is of the view that the use of radio frequency, the definition of such order, is an activity that requires special competence. Therefore, it must be licensed. Second. In such a way, the law was adopted on first reading by the Supreme Council, and the Committee had been open all that time for work, and no such amendments had been made.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u152	Thank you. If the amendments were correct, we'd vote them out. From the government, please very briefly the position of the government on this project. _____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear National Deputies! This law introduces for the first time a single field of licensing, for the first time determining the only licensing order for those species governed by the law of general action. If there are any features of licensing, these features have a predominant effect before the law of general action and are regulated by special laws. Thus, the ninth article was divided into three parts. And that's why we think that all of these activities are entirely consistent with current legislation. Moreover, according to KWEDU, the use of radio is an economic activity. And if a law was passed yesterday that defines licensing conditions directly under the law, we agree that the licensing law should not be extended to this type of activity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u153	Dear National Deputies! I put to the vote, please note, the draft law amending the Ukrainian law on licensing certain types of economic activity for adoption in second reading and in general as a bill of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Please vote. [[17:30:06]] For-82 The decision is not taken. I'm voting for re-reading draft law number 1053. [[17:30:30]] For 112 The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. Thank you. A draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on licensing is being announced for consideration. Larissa Alexiyevna, then there's no point in this law, obviously. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u154	Because of the rejection of the former law, I do not yet understand how we will deal with this bill. The bill amends a number of laws because the law on licensing applies to economic activities such as the inclusion of money. The Committee received four amendments from the National Bank of Ukraine and all amendments were taken into account. The Committee proposes that the bill be adopted on second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u155	I would like to vote on the adoption of the second reading and, in general, as a bill of amendment to some Ukrainian legislation on licensing. All adjustments are included. Please vote. [[17:31:42]] Z-91 The law is rejected. The draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on the Violation of Nuclear Safety is being announced for consideration. Jobist Yuri Mikolaiovich. Are you going to report? Please. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear National Deputies! Your attention is given to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences on Violations of Nuclear and Radiation Security, Registration No. 1365, Second Reading. When the draft on amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences on Nuclear and Radiological Security Violations, registration number 1365, 16 proposals were made to the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. Of these, 13 suggestions are included. The committee requests the adoption of this law in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u156	Because all offers are taken into account. I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and, as a whole, the draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on the Violation of Nuclear Safety. Please vote. [[17:33:18]] For 408 The law is passed. A draft Law approving a national small city development programme is being announced for consideration. Second reading. The committee head will report, Desert Tenko Valery Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u157	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! On May 15, this year, 389 votes against the Supreme Council and only one against the Supreme Council adopted a timely and urgent bill on the approval of a national small city development programme designed by the Cabinet of Ministers. Groups of small cities, through all their heads, have expressed their heartfelt appreciation to all the members of the Supreme Council for their constructive approach to a specific solution to their difficult problems. The review of this document was widely resonated. This indicates that the Committee has recently received numerous suggestions and comments on the 130 - year project. They were the most powerful and included in the comparative table. On the basis of the drafting of the bill are the positions of the Supreme Council's ruling on this issue, which we have almost unanimously accepted with you, as well as the proposals of the National Deputies and the Cabinet of Ministers. The position of the Supreme Council’s decision on the state and outlook of the depressed cities and villages of Ukraine is also taken into account. Experience of implementation, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, of the main directions for the integrated development of small monofunctional cities, and of the concepts and mechanisms set out in the bill on the promotion of regional development, which is being considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The most important problem that the committee solved was the identification of the funding mechanism for the identified action programme. The previous option did not even provide budgetary support for public priorities, nor did financial incentives for the development of areas, especially small and medium-sized businesses, as the main employer and as the source of investment resources for these cities. The committee therefore proposes to adopt and consolidate the final position of the bill and to entrust the Cabinet of Ministers with the development and submission of proposals to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for changes to the budget, which means that we will consider the budget for the following year, as well as the Budget Code and the laws. I want to say that we've taken into account that we include 50 percent of tax deductions on non-state-owned enterprises, 100 percent of newly created enterprises, and 20 percent of the income tax on enterprises located in these cities. The total will be 320 million dollars per 350 cities. I'd like to support you. It's practically nothing, but unfortunately there's no more income like that. At 350 small towns in Ukraine I'd like to support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u158	I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and generally as a bill for a bill approving a state-wide programme for the development of small cities. Please vote. [[17:37:24]] For 336 The law is passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u159	I thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u160	A draft Funeral Law is being announced for consideration. Resnik Igor Josephovich, please. Well, I'm asking you to talk! Please, let's go for the repairs right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u161	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. A total of 76 proposals came, of which 72 were accepted. Six proposals were not accepted, but they could not be accepted because one concerned private cemeteries and the other was a property cemetery.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u162	The Committee's conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u163	There is therefore a request from the Committee for the adoption of the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u164	I'll put it to a vote. Change the vote. Bandoon, please, what's the correction? Please, the microphone's louder.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u165	Igor Josephovich, I made a written correction. Of course, the land where the cemeteries are located is government property or communal property. Why can’t a private firm or ritual service provide or rent a funeral? It's a matter of speaking, of people being protected, or of those who are protecting. Parents can assign someone to do so. Why do we set up a monopoly of state or municipal property for everything?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u166	This is not the case because articles 9 and 10 state that ritual services are communal property, but services can be provided by private entities. That's why this amendment is taken into account, and in general, I don't think there are any comments.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u167	I'm asking the people's deputies to make essentially observations if they're not included. I'm voting on the second reading as a whole as a bill of the Funeral Affairs Act. Please vote. [[17:39:40]] For 340. The law is passed. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Land Code on land ownership of joint ventures is being announced for consideration. Second reading. Lechenko Vladimir Aleksijovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u168	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. After considering the bill, the committee received a proposal from the national MP Kozachenko in the first reading, it is fully accounted for. There were no other comments to the committee. Therefore, the committee’s proposal is to accept it in the second reading and in general. Please, Semenyuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u169	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. First of all, I want to apply. Here's a written answer to my questions, to my suggestions. And speaking from the rostrum, when the law was passed in the first reading, I asked the committee a clear question: Please tell me, how many joint ventures? That's the first one. How many lands will the agricultural assignment leave for foreigners, and how many lands will the land of non - agriculture be assigned? I can only say, Vladimir Mikhailovich, one thing: I worked closely with the relevant city councils. In Kiev alone, 111 joint ventures. If we have the right to issue, pass the land to joint ventures, we are directly interfering with the Law on Local Self - Rule. So Omelchenko in Kiev needs to give 112 enterprises to share land. Unfortunately, unfortunately, on my suggestion, the committee not only failed to respond, but it didn't even include proposals in the comparative table. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm asking this question without economic justification, you don't ask such questions without consideration. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u170	Thank you. Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u171	So it's me. Your suggestions were not considered in the subcommittee. I can't say anything. All those who came were considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u172	I put to the vote a proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, a bill amending Ukraine's Land Code on land ownership of joint ventures. Please vote. [[17:42:29]] For 306 The law is passed. A draft law on the State Enforcement Service is being announced for consideration. Reporter Ivanov Sergey Anatoliyovich of the Committee on Law Enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u173	Deputies! There were 120 proposals from 10 deputies, 52 of them, 64 rejected. The committee offered to accept it in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u174	Who insists on amendments that are unconquered? I can't see. I'm voting on a second reading proposal and, as a whole, as a law, a draft of the State Enforcement Order. Variety of vote. Carmazine. I asked. Change the vote. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u175	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. I have a few amendments. Amendment two. I wrote that the draft law was that the State Enforcement Service was formed on the basis of the State Department on the execution of sentences and was the department’s legal successor in respect of its rights, obligations and obligations. The point is that there are many problems now and there will be many lawsuits before the State Enforcement Service, including these lawsuits going to the International Court of Human Rights, including the brutal violations that are now being committed under the leadership of its leader, Mr. Ljovczyn. Therefore, it is necessary to establish a clear course of action, for then it will be impossible to bring people to justice. I ask you to vote on this motion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u176	What's the amendment number?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u177	This is the second number of the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u178	Would you please take the seat of the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u179	Amendment number two has been rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u180	I'm betting on the vote number 2 of National Deputy Carmazin. [[17:45:05]] For 109 The decision is not taken. Please, Carmazine's amendment number 3, your justification? Turn on Karmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u181	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I'm asking the question conceptually. That the bill should rule out references to individual approvals by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Because we're talking about the law and the direct rule of law. Let's throw all these things out of this law. This can be done by one wave, one vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u182	We voted against the decision, Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u183	Vladimir Mikhailovich, you don't understand, I'm talking about there should be no further regulation if there's a special law. We're adopting a special law, aren't we? Why then any decision made by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine? They will change in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, change decisions. And the law is stable and the law must be observed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u184	What do you propose to vote on?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u185	I propose to rule out references to individual approvals of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine throughout the text of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u186	We voted, no decision taken, so what can I do?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u187	That's the second you voted. And the third is not.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u188	I'm putting to the vote Amendment No. 3 of People's Deputy Carmazin. [[17:46:51]] For 139 The decision is not taken. I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft law on the State Service for the Enforcement of Punishment. We're voting on the committee's proposal. Please vote. Please vote. [[17:47:22]] For-161 I'm re-reading the draft law. [[17:47:46]] For 171 The decision is not taken. A draft Law on the Social Adaptation of Persons Who Have Been Punished as a Limitation of Will or Full - Time Will is being considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u189	The committee considers that the second reading, taking into account the comments of the General Legal Department, has several of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u190	Anyone has a warning, a denial. Corrections are all taken into account. The warnings of the Legal Authority are taken into account. I put to the vote a proposal for a second reading committee and as a whole a bill of the Law on Social Adaptation of Persons who have been punished in the form of a restriction of will or a failure to give full time. For individual national deputies, I remind you that this is a project of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In the second reading and generally as a law. [[17:49:05]] For 355 Decision taken. I recommend that people read a little while while they were sitting there. From the cook's procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u191	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I will allow myself to express deep indignation at the faction of "Our Ukraine" because you remind your majority of how they should vote, you give direct instructions. Since you made such a replica, I'm forced to say on behalf of the faction that the faction supported this bill not because we're joining the coalition government of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, but because this project was accidentally submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and it's quite coincidental to our programming principles. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u192	I won't be any more. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Administrative Supervision of Persons Released from Places of Will is being announced for consideration. Second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u193	The committee suggests that we accept the second reading as a whole. One amendment, which is not counted, is rejected. Recent changes are all taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u194	I'll put it to a vote. I'm sorry, Catherinechuk. Take down the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u195	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I just got the secretarial lists.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u196	Turn off the microphone, then the lists and the announcements. There's a vote coming. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Administrative Supervision of Persons Released from Places of Will is being announced for consideration. In the second reading and generally as a law. Please vote. In the end, we'll have the procedure, and you'll say so. [[17:51:05]] For 397 The law is passed. While I am now announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Ukraine's Participation in International Peacekeeping Operations, Catherinechuku said the procedure. Simonov, please come to the rostrum, and I'll invite my colleague Simonov. Katerinczuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u197	Thank you. Simonov, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u198	Just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u199	Ladies and gentlemen, according to the information I have just received, 18 national deputies are not voting today, but if you look closely at the presidency, today is the day when there is no national MP, Zinchenko, and his card is voting. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like you to remove the cards of those national deputies who are not here today. And another piece of information, but it's not confirmed that the Roadside has been closed in their office.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u200	Ladies and gentlemen, let's work. Please report by law, colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u201	Dear National Deputies, the National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council discussed the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Ukraine's Participation in International Peacekeeping Operations in a second reading. The proposals from the legislators were considered and taken into account. I have to inform the honourable national MPs that the committee has decided, on the basis of the discussion, to submit a prescribed bill for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and recommend that it be adopted in a second reading and as a law. I must also inform you that order and sources of funding determine that, when the Supreme Council of Ukraine approves, Ukraine's participation in international peacekeeping operations. The bill is being drafted by the Legal Department and other departments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u202	I'm betting on a vote on acceptance. Please, Malinowski, your comment. Bulba, Bulba, please excuse me. The Socialist faction. What's your deal?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u203	I do not believe that this bill is necessary in view of the fact that the financing of peacekeeping operations is determined when decisions are made by the United Nations, the United Nations Security Council. This bill is needed by those who want to be financed by the adventure budget, similar to those relating to the channelling of the chimbata and the motorcycle brigade to Iraq.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u204	Thank you. I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and generally as a bill of the bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Ukraine's Participation in International Peacekeeping Operations. Please vote. [[17:54:12]] For 304 The law is passed. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the establishment of responsibility for violations of legislation on printed media]] Second reading. Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u205	Dear colleagues, this bill is a government and smart bill. The committee therefore proposes to support it, since it is a number of rules that have not been prescribed in our legislation. They refer to administrative responsibility for when a printed media outlet has ceased its activity and has been used by someone for a period of time, which is often, as we know, especially during an election campaign, a person bears administrative responsibility for this incident. So there's an offer: support. This solves a problem that exists.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u206	Viacheslav Kirilenko. Have a seat, please. All the suggestions that have been made have been taken into account. It's a one-man payoff. If he insists, we vote. Please, Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u207	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine". Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, we are now voting and passing important laws. But there is information in Parliament that there is now another vote in the office of President Zadrodzny's representative in parallel, including on constitutional issues. As Head of the Supreme Council, you need to refute or confirm this information, because it's stressful now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u208	Thank you. I, my dear colleagues, do not comment on the rumors and rumors that go around Parliament. It's all happening in the session room. The answer pleases you. I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and, in general, as a bill of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation to establish the appropriateness for violations of the legislation on printed media. Please vote. [[17:56:24]] For 332 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, since I have been observed, I would like to make national MPs who run during the vote and demand not to vote. So let's take all the responsibility. Shame! A draft Act amending article 24 of the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Technological Activities in Retirement is being announced for consideration. [[second reading]] From the committee, please, Constantine Mercuryovich Sitnik, head of the subcommittee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u209	Dear colleagues, which is new to the changes that the committee makes and makes to the deputies, and the committee has approved. First. The Law has been extended to all scientists regardless of the form of ownership of the institution in which it works. The only requirement for non-state scientific institutions is the State's certification under Ukrainian law, which we are currently considering. The other one. Articles 22.1, 222, 223 have been introduced into the law, which clearly defines the positions of scientific and academic staff, as well as the course of scientific work. This list is shortened. It was previously established by the Cabinet of Ministers, and today the committee found it appropriate to cut it down. The formulation of the employee’s salary, the supplementation of the allowance, the pay, the remuneration paid for the scientific activity, has been clarified. In determining the average salary for the pension, the remuneration is also included in the compendium. It is proposed that pensions be paid at the expense of the state budget. The truth has entered into force since 01.01.2007. To date, it has been proposed that the Cabinet of Ministers edit the budget at the expense of the budget, and for others, 50 percent at the expense of the budget, and 50 percent at the expense of its own resources. The project proposes to set a limit on pensions, which is to limit the amount from which insurance premiums are paid. In addition, for managers working in non-state institutions, such pensions cannot exceed the maximum size of the post salary, the rates of the head of the scientific research institution of the National Academy of Sciences. The draft law has been proposed since 01.01.2007 — four years later — to extend only to candidates and doctors of science. It is further suggested in article 22-3 in paragraph four that the words "dedication of scientific degrees" should be replaced by the words "from the time of office of this specialty". The committee requests the adoption of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u210	Dear National Deputies! Practically all the corrections and comments were taken into account. Jaroslav Suhi, there's not a single amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u211	Thank you. Constantine Mercuryovich. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of SDPU (o). I have a question for you again for the transcript. Tell me here, please, that it's in the transcript. And where my revisions are taken into account, I have such data from your committee secretariat that they have not entered fully. Will my amendments be included in the full text of Bill 1258? I do not insist on my correction that is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u212	I can promise, but I don't know. It would have been better if you had told me what amendment did not satisfy you, we would have voted and everyone would have been satisfied.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u213	I ask that we continue our work, in accordance with the Rules, so that we can make a number of other decisions. I'm voting on a proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a bill amending article 24 of the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Technological Activities on Pensions. Please vote. [[18:01:09]] For 324 Decision taken. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u214	Thank you so much from all the scientists.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u215	A draft law amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Their Social Protection on the granting of monetary compensation for sanatorium treatment is under consideration. Cibenko Peter Stepanovich is head of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u216	Dear colleagues, there have been three amendments to this bill to the committee's second reading. All three are accounted for. The Committee requests the Supreme Council to adopt the law in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u217	I'm voting on a proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a bill amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection, on the granting of monetary compensation for sanatorium treatment. Please vote. [[18:02:25]] For 261 Decision taken. The law is passed. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act on workers in infectious and psychiatric hospitals is being announced for consideration. Reporter Cibenko Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u218	Dear colleagues! Three amendments to this bill were made to the second reading. One of them is fully accounted for, in part, and one is unaccounted for, and one is not counted for, and it refers to, the date of entry. The Committee would like the Supreme Council to support this bill in its second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u219	I'm voting on a proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a bill amending the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act. [[on workers in infectious and psychiatric hospitals]] [[18:03:32]] For 263 The law is passed. A draft Act amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act is being announced for consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u220	Dear colleagues, this bill has again received three amendments, two of them counted, one not included. But I would ask the author of the bill not to insist on it, because it was the result of some compromise with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So I would like to support in the editorial paper proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u221	I am voting on the proposal of a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a bill amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act. [[on pension benefits for workers in metallurgical enterprises]] [[18:04:40]] For 267 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on the regulation of the market in cars in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the environmental standards of the euro-2]] [[second reading]] Reporter: Zushko Vasil Petrovich, First Deputy Head of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u222	Respectable colleagues, the essence of the Act, that, as of 1 January 2004, catalysts should be installed for all. The Committee proposed to postpone the date of, well, the Act from 1 January 2005. Please vote on second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u223	For reasons, please, Cherniak. Vasil Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u224	Dear colleagues, I ask you not to support the committee's proposal on the deadlines for the entry into force of the law. Environmental standards need to be introduced, the situation is very difficult. And it's not about those who don't want to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u225	I'll put it this way. If we now enter from 1 January 2004, we will strike at the very people who ride on the Moscows, the hedgehogs and the cars that were purchased in Soviet times. And the cool ones, they'll figure out the cool ones. That is why we all voted in favour of the people when we were elected. This law is not enough to support our automotive industry. That's why I gave you the opinion of the committee. And I would like to vote in the second and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u226	I'm voting on the committee's proposal. Please note, the committee's proposal is being voted on. On the adoption of a second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending the Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on the regulation of the market in cars in Ukraine with regard to the environmental rules of the Euro-2. I'm going to vote on the committee's proposal, and then if we do, we're going to decide. [[18:06:54]] For 176 The law is rejected. It's being announced. I'm saying 176 votes again. I'm telling you again, the written amendment, you weren't there, and I'm putting to the vote the written amendment. We don't accept amendments from the vote. I can re-read it if you insist. Please identify yourself. For the re-reading of the bill at number 2445-1. On the second one again, I'm sorry, on the second one again. [[6:07:38]] For the 320. Decision taken. A draft law on Ukraine’s representation abroad is being announced for consideration. Second reading. Reporter Vitaly Jakovitch Šibko
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u227	Dear colleagues! On the first reading, the bill received 340 votes. There have been 52 amendments sent to our committee, all except for amendment number 11. The committee proposes the adoption of this law as a whole and in a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u228	If there are no warnings, I put to the vote a motion for a committee to adopt in the second reading and generally as a bill of draft law on the representation of Ukraine abroad. Please vote. [[18:08:35]] For 295 The law is passed. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Vacation Act is being announced for consideration. [[on the granting of leave to a person irrespective of sex]] Stoyan Alexander Mikolaiovich, please. Stay on the microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u229	Dear colleagues, the point is to complement the point that gives the mother’s child the right to care when taken from the boarding school, from the sex house, and from the father’s judgment. On the first reading, 366 votes. In principle, it is settled, but it is said that you do not play with oil. I ask for your support, and let the people who are taking the child for adoption take care of their own judgment — whether it's a father or a mother. The committee's asking for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u230	I'm betting on a motion for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a bill amending the Ukrainian Vacation Act. [[on the granting of leave to a person irrespective of sex]] [[18:09:52]] For 384 The law is passed. A draft law on the organization of gastronal activities in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Les Stepanovich Tanjuk is head of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u231	Ladies and gentlemen, under this law we have found full consensus, this is the law of Valeria Zaklonny, which we have debated for a very long time, which has added many positions with the Ministry of Culture to it. Please support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u232	I'll bet you a vote. Just a minute. Oksana Bilozer, one moment. Please, what an amendment to yours, Oksana Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u233	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! We can't accept this bill, it's a natural law that, like many other laws, goes into our room. We have to make a system law, define a gastro-concert activity as a branch, and then it really works. This bill is about the creation of a special fund rather than supporting gastronal activities. Who is this fund that's going to distribute the funds, the criteria, who's going to get the money? We should not adopt this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u234	I'm explaining. Mrs. Oksana has her own law, but that law we define as the law on Ukrainian show business. We'll look at it separately. And you don't have to mix black with white. I ask you to uphold this law as it is supported by the committee and all factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u235	I put to the vote a proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, a draft law on the organization of gastronomic activities in Ukraine. Please vote. [[18:11:55]] For 294 The law is passed. I'm asking you to keep it down. Dear colleagues, we're tired, but we have to work. For reasons, please, Yavorowski. Yuri Ivanovich to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u236	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, distinguished winners of the pre-election contests, national MPs! So well went today, so many decisions were made, and we made a statement. I think it's time to accept another brief statement that the Supreme Council, on behalf of the Ukrainian people, is making its apologies for the sometimes deplorable and inhospitable behaviour of the Ukrainian population in treating the German fascists in its territory during the years of World War II. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u237	Turn off the microphone. Please, Yuri Ivanovich. A draft law on the completion of the construction of the Crevice Mining and Enriching Combination of Acided Ores is being announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u238	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship worked on a second reading of a bill on the completion of the construction of the Crevice Mining and Enriching Combination of oxidized ores. There were 29 comments. They're all worked out, and in the final edition, they're consistent with that part of the government that's headed by Vice Prime Minister Hayduk. In a previous meeting, First Vice-Prime Minister of Finance, Mikola Azarov, said that the government's economic bloc would make proposals on perhaps another edition of some articles. No suggestions were made for this moment. Therefore, the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship requests that the bill be voted on in a second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u239	Yes, now as amended. Please. No, are you filming?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u240	All the changes have been made. No one's got any notes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u241	I mean, the procedure, right? He's a craftsman. Then there's Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u242	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Yuri Ivanovich, would you please tell us that this law takes into account a substantial proposal to take account of our debt? That is, a future investor must pay off the debts of our partners in this construction because there may be a situation when the plant is repaid without taking into account the debts of our partners. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u243	The point is that the bill provides for the completion of construction, not exploitation. And when an investor works in a combination, the State Property Fund, all those who have to work with him, all have agreements. We can't legally settle all these issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u244	Thank you. Alexander Frost. Then Cushko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u245	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honourable Volodymyr Mikhailovich. I draw your attention to the fact that this is a special law. And according to the Constitution, taxes are not regulated by special law. Taxes are regulated only by tax laws. Therefore, it is not possible to vote on this matter. This is the first moment. The other one. During our term of office in the Supreme Council, we spent three times on the construction of this company, predicting benefits for it, and yet these amounts were not realized. I want to say that in the meantime we've acquired so much in Ukraine, the state has acquired that it was possible not only to finish this combination, but everything else. So you can't vote on this project until the flaws that I've just called are removed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u246	Thank you. Baby, please. Dear colleagues, calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u247	Dear colleagues, Vladimir Mihajlović, Yuri Ivanovich. Our committee is responsible for the taxes. Our committee has not considered this bill. Second. The economic bloc of the Government, you did not say so, does not support it. Economic block. You said Hayduk supported it, and economics didn't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u248	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill has been sent to the committee, and we have removed it three times, as a minimum. Let us now vote on the committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u249	Dear colleagues, this bill was passed at the request of the Ukrainian government. After this was done, the government divided itself into two opinions. There is no single thought. I'm doing what's been done with the manufacturers, and I'm asking you to give this combination the opportunity to live and exist somehow. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u250	I put to the vote a proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, a draft law on the completion of the construction of the Croat mining combined oxidized ores. Please vote. [[18:17:27]] For 216 The decision is not taken. The draft Law on Introduction is being announced for consideration. What happened? Oh, you're tired. Dear National Deputies! One minute, let's figure it out. I'm asking for another vote. I'll make an announcement. One minute. Let us vote on the draft Supreme Council Regulation on the revision of the draft Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine to the second reading. We discussed it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, listen, I'd like you to assign it to the working group that was preparing for the first reading together with the committee to process it. I'm voting on draft order number 3456-p for the vote. Please vote. Please support to get us to work on the document. Please. [[18:18:39]] For 315 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! What are the observations to this day, leading to them? Ice cream, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u251	Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Regarding today’s observations. We have not considered with you the fundamental issue of political reform. I want to emphasize this, because some of the deputies have blocked the consideration of this issue by not blocking the decision essentially. They blocked the President's attempt to push through Parliament a reactional draft of his changes to the Constitution. That's the first one. And secondly, I generally find it impossible, unacceptable in Parliament to conduct any manipulations with a vote outside the will of the Chief of the Supreme Council and outside the sessional hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-10-m1.u252	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I ask the leaders of the MPs and factions to meet again now to discuss the order of our work tomorrow and the conclusion of the session. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Thank you for having an active part in our work.
