ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u1	Good morning, national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:47]] Registered -374 374 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of Ukrainian national deputy Anishuk Vladimir Vasilovich, not just a birthday but a Jubilee date. Let us welcome Vladimir Vasilovich and wish him good health and great success. Dear colleagues, the Conciliation Board of Deputies and factions agreed on a schedule for this plenary week. It's given to you. In line with the calendar of the fourth session of the Supreme Council at the morning meeting today, we are spending Government Day. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, by its decree of 11 July this year, set out its theme "On the state of security in Ukraine established by valid legislation of social, economic, legal and constitutional guarantees in the field of social protection of veterans." Given that it is also proposed that the report of the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine on the state of affairs between coal industries and thermal power plants and the electricity wholesale market on the results of the fuel-energy complex in the first half of 2003 and the implementation of the Plan for the Restructuring of the Coal Industry be considered, it is suggested that the Government Day should somewhat reduce the time-limited requirements for Ukraine's Government Day in the Supreme Council, so that at 13 hours we can complete the question, consider the two issues and move on to future bills. Such regulations are proposed. Information from the government is 15 minutes, 30 minutes for questions and answers. It is a privilege to ask questions directly from the national MPs. And in writing, ask for a written answer. It's eight minutes from the committee. And we'll have a discussion in 30 minutes. Is there no objection? Is it? We agreed, since today there are two questions. Please, Stretovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u2	Stratovic, Party of the Christian-Democratic Union, faction of our Ukraine. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you've just heard the news that a written question should be answered in writing. But that is why the deputy is writing to save time for the one in the rostrum. And since this question is of social importance to the electorate to hear what the MP is asking directly, and on Government Day, because it's being broadcast online, the answer to our voters was clear. And what we get in writing, I'm sorry, we can talk to the minister verbally and get an answer for ourselves. I would like to avoid such a scheme, and I would like to answer the written questions from the rostrum as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u3	Okay. When there is a denial, we will be one in writing, one directly from the national deputies. Olga Hinsburg. Then Michaela Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u4	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I didn't understand why 30 minutes is such an important question to discuss. Well, at least 45 minutes. If we could explain all of our problems today, I would still suggest we discuss 45 minutes of these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, I've obviously misphrased this as a matter of first question. And the second one we're going to consider for at least 45 minutes. That's only the first question. Let's, if there's any insistence, let's go on for 45 minutes. Is there no objection? It's a deal. Please, Mikhailo Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u6	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I support the People's Deputy of Hinsburg, yet the question is very important. We understand that the state of security in Ukraine, which is established by valid legislation, social, economic and legal guarantees, the protection of veterans and veterans in general, needs to be discussed in detail, the adoption of decisive measures by Parliament, because practically the laws that we adopt with regard to improving the lives of these people are not being implemented in Ukraine. And someone has to be responsible. So I'm going to suggest that we increase the time we're considering this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, the question is being considered, and now I have counted it at an hour of forty - five. Enough? Well, I think that's enough. Please, Rudzkowski, then School. So let's move on to the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u8	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! The National MP of Nechiporak recently made a radical anti-Semitic statement, he said that Jews in Ukraine are zero percent with something, 73 percent is the Ukrainian nation. Let everyone in the power structure take their share. Today, 73 percent of the Jews in power, 0.5 percent of the Ukrainian population, were taken by the Russians. I find that unacceptable when national MPs make such statements. I am addressing the People's Deputy of Hubsky, the leader of the faction: Is this the position of the faction? If not, I ask personally, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to entrust the legal committee with assessing this statement and, if necessary, to make an appeal to the prosecutor's office. We cannot look calmly at creeping anti - Semitism in Ukraine, in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u9	Andrey School, and let's move on to the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u10	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'd really like to focus on the topic that we're going to be discussing right now, on the side of the government of Ukraine. You know, we keep raising the issue of veterans, but it doesn't work. There are people who have worked in one workplace for 25 to 30 years in one place. And so far they have no opportunity to form their benefits. And I always have people from my constituency who, once again, have given their practical lives all the hard work and work, but in principle, any reference I have or, I'm sure, another national deputy to the social minister. To Papiev, the social policy of the Minister of Labour ends with formal discounts. So I'd like to draw a picture of the way out of this situation right now, and I want the Supreme Council to finally have an opportunity to influence the coalition government. And even if the coalition government is affected by the opposition, they must still, as representatives of the people, guarantee their right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u11	Thank you. The issue of the state of security established in Ukraine is under review. Mikola Kravchenko. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u12	Thank you. Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I would still like to clarify the mode in which we will consider the second question of “Report of the Minister of Fuel”, because, as for Government Day, we did not vote in favour. And the second question. As I have initiated the consideration of the issue of “Report of the Minister of Fuel and Energy”, I strongly ask you to give me the first word in accordance with the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u13	I think we'll get to the point. Then let us determine how we can act in harmony with the Rules. Announcing the issue of Government Day: "On the state of security in Ukraine established by valid legislation of social, economic, legal and constitutional guarantors in the field of social protection of veterans of labour." Reporter - Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine Papiev Mikolaajovich. Please, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, you are invited to report. May I have your attention, fellow officers?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u14	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Today, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is considering an important national issue concerning our fellow countrymen who, in conscientious and hard work, have been given the status of veterans of work. Their numbers are increasing every year. Because Ukraine belongs to countries with a high population ageing rate. Today, about a third of the country’s population is older, more than 5 million 300,000 or 33 percent are veterans. Therefore, the issue of their support becomes an integral part of the social policy of the State, an important part of the government’s activities today. The materials given to you provide information on the types of government support given to veterans. I'll stop briefly at what's done. First of all. With regard to the material security of this population category. We have managed to maintain a steady upward trend in the level of pension provision for veterans. Thanks to positive economic dynamics, the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a wide range of laws, including the introduction of additional congregations to pay pensions, the government has ensured a 20 per cent increase in pensions last year and is taking steps to further increase them. I would like to draw your attention to the next slide, which illustrates the dynamics of increasing pensions, including the rise that took place on July 1, this year. This year, more than 600 million dollars have been spent on pensions. With the aim of increasing the prestige of mining and the differentiation of pensions of miners, depending on the underground work experience, pensions have been increased since 1 July of this year for pensioners who are also employed. Their pension exceeded the cost of living. The pension security of veterans of labour and war, who have special merit before Ukraine, has been significantly improved. In the current year, more than 400,000 people receive such pensions. Since January 1, 2004, two basic laws on pension reform will be adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The U.S. National Pension Insurance Act stipulates that pensions will be recalculated on the basis of employment without limitation on the size of pensions. More than 4 billion dollars are available to implement these measures in the Ukrainian Pension Fund for 2004. Improving the material position of the low-security population, including veterans, is strongly influenced by housing subsidies. Organizational and practical measures by the government and local executive authorities have improved in the current year compared with the previous period in terms of fuel subsidies and cash withdrawals. In particular, 691,000 families were assigned a subsidy, with more than 90 percent of families receiving it in half. Caring for the veterans of work, daily real care for the elderly, is done by the organs of the work system and the social protection of the population. Today, there are 314 boarding homes in Ukraine for senior citizens and disabled persons, where there are over 50,000 people living on full government security, of whom about 14,000 are senior citizens. In recent years, a network of grilled boarding houses has been created for war veterans and to work with more comfortable living conditions. Some 4,000 people now live in one such institution. This service direction will expand. The conditions of living and service of veterans are improving in internal institutions. They practically all live in rooms for one or two people. In most rooms TVs and refrigerators are installed. Most veterans and disabled persons are provided with clothing, shoes, soft inventory, and four meals. Good nutrition is also promoted by the development of subsidized households in residential institutions. 745 district and city social services centers provide more than 40 types of social services to over 700,000 pensioners. The dynamics in the development of the regional centres are reflected in the slide. In the current year, a total of 1.5 million people received cash and material assistance through the separation of the territorial centers, including 33 million dollars of extrabudgetary funds. In order to improve the living conditions of lone war veterans and workers, there are nine housing units with a social and housing package and 24-hour health care services, where more than 500 people live. The government is working to create unhindered disabled and elderly people into social infrastructure. This is facilitated by the production of unified domestic transportation equipment, and by the provision of pandas to buildings. The first such trolleybus, designed for the transport of small - celled population groups, was presented on December 3, this year on the International Day of Disabled Persons. The prospects for the development of a social service institution are defined by the Ukrainian Social Services Act, adopted by you in June of this year. In order to provide social services for older persons, including veterans of work, work is done with the involvement of non - state organizations, institutions, and enterprises of all forms of property. The organization of complex medical examinations and dispensary supervision is given considerable attention. In order to provide fixed medical care to war veterans and workers, 27 hospitals with a bed fund of more than 7,000 beds and 33 hospital wards have a total capacity of about 2,000 beds. The rehabilitation departments of nursing care, hospice, which are provided with special equipment and basic care for heavy and chronically ill war veterans and workers, have been created and operated. In a number of regions, wards and wards of prevention function to maximize population dissipation from central, district hospitals. And in order to test the inhabitants of the remote population, there are mobile clinics and clinics. In district centres, cities and areas, teams have been completed to provide medical and counselling services to residents of rural areas and to organize methodological assistance to hospitals and institutions operating there. The activity of a number of companies to support their veterans is an indication. For example, in the Mariupolska metalworking combination of Ilièa’s name over the last two years, veterans have been assisted with more than 14 million coins. In the current year, 800 veterans received free sanatorium trips. There are 4 million dollars spent on domestic fuel, 1 million dollars spent on buildings. Some 2,000 food kits have been produced for about 65,000 dollars. Some 2,000 veterans received a free subscription for periodicals. In order to support railway veterans, almost 240,000 non-retirement railway workers are provided with monthly targeted material assistance, which in the current year has received almost 240,000 veterans totalling 3 million 600,000 dollars. Over 215,000 people are listed for free medical insurance in case of illness. Railway veterans at tax prices are provided with domestic fuel, they retain the right to the benefit of telephony, free subscription to the newspapers, and free health care in health sector institutions. Product kits, additional financial assistance, are available on important dates and public holidays. During September-November of this year, almost 2 million low-income citizens, including veterans, received a total of over 85 million dollars in aid from the All-U.S. charity campaign, which was initiated by the government. These are just a few vivid examples that show that there are a lot of vulnerable people among leaders and entrepreneurs who understand that caring for the elderly is not just about government, but about society as a whole. It is gratifying to note that recently a new progressive form of charity has begun to develop in Ukraine as a volunteer movement. Today, over 170,000 volunteers provide moral and psychological support and assistance to 400,000 elderly single citizens. Public organizations, veteran organizations, have a special role to play in solving the problems of social protection of work veterans. They are actively taking steps to promote respect for the veterans of work, their achievements. They participate in meetings, meetings, round tables, and public awareness of the current issues of veterans. At the end of my report, I would like to draw your attention to a series of unresolved problems involving veterans of work, which, along with you, the honourable national deputies, need to be resolved. Despite positive developments in pension reform, the average amount of pensions paid remains low at present and represents only 52 percent of the living minimum for disabled persons. So we need to look together for mechanisms to increase wages and fill insurance funds. Inadequate provision of health care for veterans requires additional funding from the State Budget and local budgets. There is also a need for improved organization, comprehensive medical examinations, and dispensary supervision, free dental care for veterans. In particular, it should be noted that a number of benefits provided for in the current legislation are of a declarative nature. In particular, they relate to the primary fuel supply of veterans, their primary lending to individual, cooperative housing, the primary setting of telephones, the predominant right to join garden societies. Obviously, these benefits have some meaning only if there is a queue for this type of service. The presence of such benefits in current legislation causes misunderstandings among ordinary citizens, because it is often interpreted arbitrarily, changing the term "first priority" to "free." And I would like to give you a few positive examples, because at the same time, a number of national MPs, and I can call this an example of the dunes -- Vladimir Seminovich Boyka, Georgia Markovich Skuder, Yuhim Leonidovich Zvigilski, who all the issues of helping veterans, organizing their social services and healing are decided in their constituencies, along with the local authorities and working groups of enterprises. Clearly, caring for veterans remains a common concern for all branches of government of all members of society. By concluding this statement, let me express to you, on behalf of the government, our gratitude for the support and understanding of the problems of the social protection of the veterans of work and our confidence that, together with the efforts of legislators and government officials, we are capable of giving our respect to veterans. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u15	Yes, Your Honor, the Minister's report has been completed, so let's move on to questions. Please sign up for the question. Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, please, as long as you have a written question. It's got a name tag on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u16	Thank you. A written question from the Committee on Social Policy and Work specifically asked such complex questions as to be honest and frank. Question: "How are the requirements of the article of the seventh Ukrainian Law "On basic principles of social protection for veterans of work and other elderly citizens in Ukraine met, in particular with regard to the right to primary free dental care, the predominant right to health care, and compensation for the cost of self-sacrifice?" Dear National Deputies! The question is, frankly, very difficult. You know that according to paragraph 2 of the seventh article of the Ukrainian Law on the Basic Principles for the Social Protection of Workers and Other Citizens of the Age in Ukraine, veterans are given free dental treatment except for prosthetics from precious metals. Free dental flossing is now needed by some 9.5 million people in Ukraine. Citizens who are part of the population's income categories, which is about 18 percent of the total population of Ukraine. The total number of denture recipients is more than 570 thousand. Regrettably, the cost limit does not provide free dental care for those who need it. Under the planned budget funding, free dental care is provided to five percent of veterans and other elderly citizens in Ukraine. Local self-government authorities, which are responsible for this type of benefits, finance measures within the scope stipulated by the law of the State Budget of Ukraine by subsidies to support local budget alignment. The law also involves local authorities of the executive state, local self - government authorities, and dental dentures at the expense of extrabudgetary funds. This also provides between 6 and 10 percent of the job security for veterans and other elderly citizens. For example, out of 370,000 veterans and pensioners living in Kiev, some 16,000 had prosthetics. It's about sanatorium treatment. In accordance with article 7, paragraph 3, of the Ukrainian Act on the Basic Principles for the Social Protection of Workers and Other Elderly Citizens in Ukraine, veterans of the work are granted benefits in the form of the overwhelming right to provide health care, as well as the right to compensation for the cost of self-sustainment. Sanitary and health care for veterans of work, as well as compensation for the cost of self-sustainment, is provided by regional labour and social protection authorities, in accordance with the State Budget Act for the current year and the State Budget Act 2004 based on subsidies from the State Budget to local budgets. State budgets for 2003 include state subsidies, including sanatorium and smoking, for 501 million dollars. Within these areas, sanatorium treatment is provided through the network of sanatoriums of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, as well as travel to sanatoriums such as Burdenko, the "Slovakia" sanatorium in the Donetsk region. [[Saki]] At the same time, given that the existing sanatorium network does not meet the need to rehabilitate the listed population categories, part of the state budget expenditure is directed annually to sanatorium-storage travel on the Skrprofessorovitz network. In addition, various health services in 211 departments of medical and social rehabilitation and 60 temporary centres covered about 100,000 veterans of work. Yeah, it's clear that not everything is done, whatever you want. But let's go along with you, honourable national MPs, and anticipate in our budget spending the necessary cost to ensure that we provide sanatorium treatment, not 20 percent of the veterans of work, but that we fully meet this need. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u17	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u18	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Michael Mikolaiovich, the count of all our fines and troubles begins in 1991. So I have this question: if the level of welfare of veterans compared to 1991 is only 15 to 20 percent, what can a bourgeois president and government of capitalist ministers guarantee to work to restore their well-being to the level of 1991 in the coming years? How many years will it take for veterans to live as worthy as they did in 1991? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u19	Thank you for asking. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine. You know that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has adopted important pension insurance laws this year: this is the National Pension Insurance Act, which provides for the distinction between the pension ceiling, which is now 150 dollars, and the recalculation of the pension from 1 January 2004 in accordance with the work history of citizens and the amount of contributions made by these citizens to the Ukrainian Pension Fund. The previous calculations that are in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy give us reason to say that those citizens who have deliberately worked their entire lives, the veterans themselves, you know that this status has been granted to people who have worked 20 years or more, who have paid contributions to the Pension Fund, who, since 1 January 2004, will be entitled to a pension recalculation, and we will cancel these famous 150 dollars, and the pension will be paid by the Pension Fund without restriction. The limit will consist only of the amount of the salary paid to the Pension Fund, which is 2 thousand 660 dollars. Moreover, in February of this year, Ukraine's Money Income Index Act, which stipulates that if the price index threshold is exceeded by 101 percent, the population's cash income is automatically indexed. So people are not going to lose their money to inflation, they're going to be indexed. I thank you, honourable national MPs, for adopting such a socially important law that will restore the equality of citizens' income regardless of the economic situation. In addition, you know that today the minimum wage that retirees receive is 91 bracelets 80 copies. It's made up of 50 dollars of minimum pension plus an extra 30 dollars as a veteran of labor, and it turns out that by 80 dollars the state pays another 11 dollars 80 dollars. I mean, there's actually a comparison going on. With the adoption of the new law, it is estimated that the minimum pension will amount to more than 90 dollars, and already 30 dollars will be paid up to 90 dollars, in fact the minimum pension of a veteran of labor will amount to 130 dollars. So the actual increase is going to take place between 40 and 45 percent. Yeah, that's not enough. And in addition, the State Budget Act provides for the allocation of expenditure and 4 billion dollars for the recalculation of pensions today are available in the Pension Fund budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u20	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u21	"How many veterans do you need to improve living conditions and what measures are being taken by the government to provide such veterans with housing in accordance with current legislation?" Yes, the issue of improving the living conditions of veterans, you know, is regulated today by the Ukrainian RSR Housing Code and by the regulations of citizens who need to improve housing and housing. These rules were established in 1984. Also in accordance with article 43 of the Ukrainian Code of Housing and article 38 of the above - mentioned Rules of Accounting, the order of accommodations for citizens who need to improve their living conditions is determined by the time they are taken into account. According to the U.S. State Department, at the end of 2002, the total number of citizens who were on the flat count using the right of priority housing was over 324,000. According to paragraph 14 of these rules, citizens who have worked conscientiously for at least 15 years in one enterprise, organization or institution are considered to need improvement in housing conditions and to be accepted for housing. At the same time, workers and officials who have worked hard for a long time in the field of manufacturing and who are in the housing business have been referred to the number of people to whom housing is given first. In addition, citizens who have left their jobs at businesses, institutions, housing agencies, and retirement accounts are accounted for at the same level as employees and employees of the company. Paragraph 29 also provides for the preservation of the citizen’s right to stay in his apartment after his previous employment in the event of retirement. You know, the housing issue, it's a painful question. Today there are and governments are proposing mechanisms for resolving this issue. First, these mechanisms are set out in a new draft of the Ukrainian Labour Code, which is currently under consideration in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In addition, the need to adopt a higher subsidy in the State budget, to align with local budgets, is already needed today, as the financing and housing of veterans is carried out at the expense of local budgets and within local budget allocations. It is also necessary to involve this issue today, because, as I said, Ukraine's legislation provides for a solid participation in housing-provided businesses, institutions and organizations. We have many positive examples on this issue, but at the same time there are negative examples where, in changing the ownership of enterprises, new owners do not guarantee Ukrainian housing rights. There is still a great deal to be done by the government, together with you, honourable national deputies. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u22	Oleg Zarubinsky, NDP faction. Please, Your Honor, a brief question, clearly formulated, clear, brief answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u23	Dear Mr. Minister! First of all, I would like to thank you for the meaningful, visual, informational reference materials that have been submitted to the government's Day. I think if the government were to always supply quality materials like this, it would be a big plus, like today's materials. I have two questions that are very specific to you. Having decided to create a single national automated register of persons who have the right to benefits. In fact, the government obliged veterans to provide appropriate information to include them in the register. I have a question: Why are you doing this, explain it to people? And the second. What has given the poor population, really, I emphasize, the introduction of fuel subsidies to the population? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u24	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian national deputies, you know that today the provision of benefits in Ukraine is regulated by 46 legislative and regulatory acts. Several authorities carry out the professional survey, as well as several accounts of the benefits on a social basis. So we need to create a single state-owned register in order to clearly and clearly understand how many citizens we have in Ukraine who are entitled to benefits, because today there are some benefits that overlap with several legislations, there are categories of citizens who operate at the same time with several offices. That is why the government decided to create a single state automated register. As for documents that need to be submitted by a veteran of work, a citizen who has the right to receive social benefits is provided there, it should be a copy of the passport, it should be a copy of the certificate that gives the right to the benefit, and it should also be a copy of the identification code, a copy. And we had signals, some of the bodies of work and social protection on the ground took it as a xeropscopy. Where does a veteran’s work today have additional funds to do his own xerocopy? So we made it clear that this is not supposed to be a copy, it's supposed to be an arbitrary copy. In addition, we committed social workers and gave them the right to verify these copies in any way that a veteran would be able to deliver them. With regard to the subsidy for solid fuel and cremated gas, you know that before 2002, this subsidy was in cash - free form. And I'm asking you to look at the slide. In cash - free form, this benefit was assigned to 463,000 families in Ukraine. Only 156 thousand were given. When we went into cash payment, this is where it happened, you see that the increase, first of all, of the families that got the right to receive this benefit in cash. Their numbers have increased by 30 percent. At the same time, the interest on cash was 44.5 percent. In this current year, we have seen an increase in the number of recipients of this subsidy by 650,000 families. But at the same time, we've provided cash to 527,000 families, which is 76 percent. This is the number of families who received a cash grant more than the number of families who received the grant in 2001. And I'll say one more. The amount of this subsidy is between 270 and 300 dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u25	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u26	It's a written question. According to article 7, paragraph 12, of the Ukrainian Act on the Basic Principles for the Social Protection of Veterans and Other Elderly Citizens in Ukraine, all modes of transport for general use except taxis in rural areas are free of charge. A committee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. The Ukrainian National Deputies, in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Basic Principles for the Social Protection of Workers and Other Elderly Citizens, have the opportunity to exercise their right to travel free of charge by all modes of urban passenger transport except taxis, road transport in general except taxis in rural areas, as well as rail and water transport of suburban connections and buses of suburban routes within the area or Republic of Crimea. Thus, since the beginning of this year, for example, rail transport has been granted free of charge for 34 million trips with a total cost of 89 million. That's right. In addition, the local budgets compensated only 4.7 million passengers. That's right. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! To explain this question, we need to explain the mechanism for implementing this benefit in real life. Thus today, 100 percent of citizens, war veterans, and the workers entitled to these benefits are provided with free travel benefits. The other thing is that there is now a problem with private carriers. But we are now working with local self-government authorities and local executives to resolve these issues, to put in local budgets compensation for these benefits. The fact that there is now a debt of the budget to enterprises that provide benefits only speaks of the debt of the budget to enterprises that provide benefits. There is no debt in front of the recipients of the aid, that is, in front of the veterans of the work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u27	Mikhailo Melniczuk, what do you have? Out of procedure or something? Melniczuk's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u28	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region. I've got Michael Mikolaiovich's. Dear Mikhail Mikolaiovich, please answer. Two deputies asked questions. I understand that you know everything and you've felt it, and you're working, and you're doing all right, but give more deputies a chance to ask questions, just answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u29	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u30	Thank you. Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u31	Dear Mikhailovich, you have very well told about solid fuel subsidies for scrapped gas, but you have been silent about the issue that there is now debt on them. Especially in my constituency number 89. And in your answers, despite the winter, there is not even a promise this year to resolve this issue. Question one. How do you plan to solve this issue at all? Question two. The budget that has been adopted is very expensive, including the mass of sawdusters, including veterans of labor, who cannot save their health because of the limitations of local budgets. And this is going to hang up again, because the absolute majority of pharmacies are private property, and the local budget sucks, drugs don't let go, and so do veterans. As a government, when it adopts such a budget, it also plans to address the issue. And finally, in your materials, it's a very good picture of pension promotion, especially on the first list. The question of list number 2 has been completely circumvented. There are a lot of pensioners in the district who are addressing these issues. Please give us the answers to these three questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u32	Thank you. Taking into account my promise to give short answers, I will give it briefly. Yes, today the financing of solid fuel subsidies and scrapped gas accounts for 76 percent of the need. Today we have about 180 million dollars in debt. There are two ways out of this situation. First option. There is now a proposal for the transfer of funds from housing to utility subsidies for which there is an economy of funds in the state budget of Ukraine. The second question. The 2004 budget provides for full 100% funding plus 190 million have been invested in debt repayments from past periods. So next year we, and this I guarantee absolutely, will get out of this kind of debt and we'll get out of the current 100% funding. As far as drug security is concerned, yes, you know that the Ukrainian Law on 20 percent VAT has been passed. But in the near future, it is envisaged that the Cabinet of Ministers will adopt a decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, which will determine the list of medicines that will be released from 20 percent of VAT. These drugs will include these drugs, which today make up the main package of war veterans and labor, i.e. the increase in the price of medicines will not happen. With regard to the provision of medicines free of charge, budget funding is provided up to 30 percent in the current year. For the following year, this funding has been increased to 50 percent. Yeah, that's not enough. But let us work along with you, distinguished national deputies. I'm in charge of budgeting 100 percent of the funding. But the State Budget Act of Ukraine is a common product, both for the government and for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you. And a pension on list number two. Yes, it is stipulated by the Ukrainian National Pension Insurance Act, which provides for an increase in pensions for persons listed in list number 1 and by list number 2 with an adjustment factor for the number of employees. So this law provides for the recalculation of pensions, and it's going to be done. And they're going to have a higher pension than a citizen with the same work experience, but who wasn't working under special conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u33	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u34	It's a written question. Let me make a short choice, so that I can. "What year does the minimum pensions of veterans of labour pay at the minimum of living if they are unable to receive such pensions from January 1, 2004?".. In accordance with article 42 of the Ukrainian Law on "Generally Compulsory State Pension Insurance", pensions will be indexed under two laws. The first law is the People's Money Income Index Act, and the second is the National Pension Insurance Act. It is expected that pensions will be indexed within at least 20 percent of the average wage increase. That is, if the pension budget is able to index the pension within 80 percent of the average wage increase, it will be indexed within these limits. And the calculations that we have today allow us to say, yes, there is a problem today with the implementation of article 46 of the Constitution of Ukraine with regard to the establishment of minimum social standards and minimum social guarantees at the minimum cost of living. But the positive trends in Ukraine's economy, the positive trends in Ukraine's state budget increase, the pension fund's budget gives us optimism that gradually the minimum pension will get closer to the minimum of living, and the first step is the adoption of new laws that establish the pension reform in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u35	Yes, Valentin Zubov, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u36	Mr. Papiev, you are the Minister of the Coalition Government, who came to the Supreme Council Hall today to discuss one of the most difficult issues. In front of you are the people's deputies who, in my opinion, know what is happening in reality. That's the question I'm asking. Do you even know the situation in the country? You know, tens of millions of pensioners are not just poor people, they're people who barely survive. That's why I have one question. First. Do you believe what you're saying today because the veterans who are watching and listening to you today, the veterans of labor, I think they're squeezing their fists out of anger because you're saying completely incomprehensible optimistic things. And the second question. Please tell us that there are 15,000 suicides per year in Ukraine. Of these, 70 are veterans of the Great Homeland War and Labour. How do you explain this situation?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u37	Thank you for asking, but I'd like to ask you a little bit of validity. First of all, whether I know it or not. The point is, what I would like to say is to the distinguished national MP of Ukraine, who speaks on the cell phone after a question. Since 1997, I've been acting as the deputy head of the district government, and I've been leading socio-economic issues. Right at the time, you remember when pensions were paid in kind, the salary when the salary was 7 billion dollars. Yeah, high debt, but 2 billion, by 5 billion. Today we don't have a pension debt. We today provide no less than 20 percent of our pension per year, no less than 25 percent of our pension, an increase in our average salary per year, with current payments and the repayment of the arrears of previous periods. That is why I am optimistic about the future today. The growth of Ukraine's economy, the growth of Ukraine's domestic gross product, the adoption of the important laws of Ukraine that are adopted by you, the honourable Ukrainian people's deputies who are now able to work the government peacefully, knowing the prospects, knowing that the adoption of laws is a predictable process, give me reason to say that the future in Ukraine is bright. And today, yes, we don't provide what we want, but positive trends exist, today we have a positive shift to improvement. And if you go to the regions of Ukraine, and the members of the government often go to the region of Ukraine, you can even feel it when you're talking to Ukrainian citizens. Yes, we don't guarantee and acknowledge this today, we don't guarantee all constitutional rights and guarantees, but we're working on it, we're working on finding additional funds and improving the overall situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u38	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u39	The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine decrees "On the organization of free and unpaid medical leave on prescriptions of doctors in case of outpatient treatment of individual population groups and under certain categories of diseases" to provide free medical leave for medical prescriptions for outpatient treatment of sick workers, workers and officials who receive retirement at the age of disability and in case of loss of a breadwinner of minimum size. What steps is being taken by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to ensure that the current legislation of Ukraine is implemented? Yes, today, I admit again that there are more than 10 million people in Ukraine. The need for payment of benefits and free recipes, according to the Ministry of Health, is estimated at about 3 billion dollars. The amount of medical supplies available to this single individual is about 300 dollars per year or 25 dollars per month. In accordance with the sonic decision, in the event of an outpatient treatment, the population groups are subject to the 13 categories of benefits and the 35 categories of diseases. Such funding is carried out within the limits of local budgets. We are now working, because after the adoption of the Ukrainian State Budget Act in the areas of Ukraine, cities and areas, appropriate local budgets will be adopted. And at this very stage, we need to anticipate an increase in the cost of these assimilations in order to improve the security of the citizens' benefits by drugs and outpatient and stationary treatment. It's a job that's in front of us, and it's a job that we have in common with you, the country's distinguished national deputies, at the time of the adoption of the local budgets. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u40	Yes, Michael Bauer, a faction of industrialists and entrepreneurs, and "Trouble Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u41	Dear Mr. Minister! The government and your ministry have learned very well how to give numbers, and you illustrate them on the tables. In real life, however, both pensioners and veterans live very badly. So the first question is going to be this. Would you be pleased if you sat at the bench, then received a grant from the government in the form of a subsidy or other grant? Is it better to give a normal decent pension at the minimum of living and cancel all these benefits? And the second. Have the institutions that are in your jurisdiction studied, and do you know when this can be done? To tell people that, as Minister Papiev, our countryman, said that the minimum amount of pension at living minimum would be in such a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u42	You know, the very complicated questions are always asked by the countrymen. The question is very difficult. First. I'm definitely against the payoff because the benefits are not help or anything. This is the constitutional right of a citizen under the conditions of work in which he worked during those years of his work, during which he paid contributions to social insurance funds, paid an income tax from the citizens, i.e. increased his income to the local budgets. So the benefit is the constitutional right of a citizen. There's no need to replace it. The only question is, but this is the subject of discussion with you, honourable national deputies, in the form of granting this benefit, or in the form of the cash that it is provided today, or in the form that it is provided with cash, and two fundamental rights must be guaranteed. The first is that there is no reduction in these benefits or narrowing them down and that there is no difference. And so there's no decrease in the absolute figure. If a person receives an allowance, let's say 50 dollars, he's going to get at least 50 dollars in cash, and he's going to want more. This is the subject of discussion. And I think we'll talk about it. The calculations show that these are such optimistic calculations, let's say the minimum pension, the minimum subsistence rate in 2008. That's what I'm telling you, these are calculations based on the increase in the average wage and the corresponding contributions to the Pension Fund, the calculation of the Pension Fund budget. But today, there is another question that can be raised by a minimum pension. So let's take a look at the cost structure of the products that we've had in this structure are energy and wages. I don't think we're okay here either. And we're going to analyze the internal gross product. Today we can, I think, do a painless redistribution of the cost structure of production and the structure of GDP, while increasing the amount of real wages. And this will enable us to provide minimum social standards by 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u43	Thank you, Mikhail Mikolaiovich. Time's up. Sit down, please. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko. Please, Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! In proposing a government day with such an order of day, the committee was guided by one goal: to draw the attention of all branches of government, society as a whole, to the problems of the vitality of veterans of work, people of important age. Today, between 7 million and 8 million of these citizens live in Ukraine. They are the people who have spent their entire lives working for the benefit of the country, strengthening the power of their nation. And for that, they have our great honor. Our State’s social protection and implementation policy is described in the government report. In my speech, I wanted to put an end to issues that had not yet been resolved. The basic principles of social protection for veterans of work and other elderly citizens in Ukraine provide 12 different socio-economic benefits. In fact, only one of them was more or less provided, and until recently, it's a free journey in public transport. All other types of benefits are eligible, and there are no costs to implement them. The right to free treatment, for example, is so discredited that it is not only necessary to pay for medicines, but some hospitals and hospitals still have to go with their spoon, cup, towel, and so forth. She still needs a bribe. The new genocide is called pensioners, veterans intending to increase the price of drugs by one and a half times and to introduce a value added tax. Or we can take advantage of the overwhelming right to set up the phone. The introduction of a value added tax for veterans, the change to a momentary and secondly payment for communication services, not only prevented them from calling some pharmacies to find cheaper drugs, but simply to communicate with others who know that it is very important for people of this age. As we know, the central issue of the social protection of veterans is their pension. Day after day, some government members and other high - ranking workers involved in problems are self - satisfied with the progress of pension reform. Pensions have been reported to have increased by 50 percent in the last two years, with an increase of 25 percent since January 1, 2004. But there is some silence as to how big the current pensions are and whether they cover the rise in inflation, the rise in prices. Notice, now 1.8 million. Pensioners, veterans receive pensions of up to 92 dollars, which is a third and less of the subsistence minimum. A 7.4 million Pensioners are the average pension size of 150 dollars, i.e. only 52 percent of the living minimum. Ukrainian veterans receive pensions 2 - 2.5 times smaller than, say, in neighboring countries of Belarus and Russia. Such statistics state that 28 percent of Ukrainian citizens live outside the poverty line. According to the Human Development Index, Ukraine has dropped 102 in the world. With regard to optimistic and victorious claims that the pension will increase by 25 percent from the first January of next year, their authors simply want to calm down more than 13 million. Pensioners. With great pain, I have to say that at the previous calculations, 60-70 percent of pensioners won't get any allowance if you don't have that so-called 4.2 percent bonus introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers. Our proposals for a bill on mandatory government pension insurance aimed at increasing pensions have not yet found support in the government or in the majority of deputies. I'm sorry to say this, but that's the truth and the result of a phased increase in pensions, the result of a poverty-relief strategy. The standard of living of veterans has worsened the sharp rise in bread prices, dairy meats, and other goods and services. A recent survey has shown that 53 percent of our citizens fear hunger. I'll just give you a few comments from veterans and seniors from letters. "I've long forgotten the taste and smell of meat, now I'm starting to forget the smell of bread." Nigga. "I was horrified to learn that the price of a ton of coal was up from 290 to 420 dollars. We'll only have to warm up with fur or cut wood in parks and woodshoes." Clothing. "We have an eternal holiday in Ukraine, and the Tavrian Games will come under the patronage of the President, and the Genic Festival will be held, and we celebrate the 6th anniversary of the Tax Administration and the Election Centre, and we celebrate 100 days of the presence of an official in office. There's one thing I can't figure out where all the money is being taken and there's no bread on my desk for weeks." Hersonic. Against this background, indignant and insulted veterans accept the government's statements from the agro-industrial complex that there is no reason for dissatisfaction and fear of a sharp rise in the price of bread. New prices for bread, they claim, are 5 or 7 times lower than European prices. At the same time, honourable Mrs. Kirilenko and Ribub forget to say that European pensions and salaries are 15 to 20 times higher than ours. What we do with bread is obviously true. But if there's anything to buy it for, that's the question. There are many reasons for the plight of our veterans like most citizens. But the main and decisive is the lack of power to ensure a stable socio-economic development of the state, wisely and fairly exploiting the country's great potential. The president himself admits that. His letter to Parliament says, "We've been going in the wrong direction for 10 years because there was no scientific reflection on reforms." It's said correctly, but unfortunately, the conclusions are not made -- and everything stays the same. According to a well-known MP, "we're going slowly, but surely not where we need to go." Today's reforms are the destruction of the industrial and agricultural sectors of the economy. They enrich the rich and make the poor even poorer. Under the slogan of reform, we even want to take into the veterans the benefits earned over the years, giving them to commercial structures for billions of dollars. Today's reforms are kind of economic terrorism. In addition to poverty and illness, there are also moral offenses on the part of veterans. Some high - ranking politicians, the media, often accuse veterans of building a state with totalitarian regimes, mockingly calling them laborers, raw materials. The disgrace of power and bellah for veterans is numerous facts, such as when they are robbed of small pensions or social assistance, demanding bribes in hospitals, and not responding to their appeals. How do veterans feel about their insults and humiliations when, in the face of poverty, middle-level officials drive away in representative-class cars at the cost of 600 to 800 000 grevens, allow excessive office repairs, and a recent tax attorney flaunted his 53,000 bracelet clock when TV screens don't tell the story of cat and dog diet. And this is at a time when the diet of many veterans and pensioners consists of three k's -- potatoes, cabbages, beans. This black ingratitude gives veterans a sense of abandonment, oblivion, and hopelessness. It is a shame to admit it, but all of this leads to the premature extinction of older people. As long as the Ukrainian nation is reduced to 2,000 citizens. This is equivalent to the annual disappearance of a city like Lviv with a population of 730,000. Scientists predict that four years later, we will have four dead children per birth, and in 15-20 years, the population of Ukraine may fall to 20 million. That's a very sad prediction. To complete two observations. First. Because of subjective and objective reasons, it is difficult to estimate that the State will quickly create normal living conditions for veterans. So we're talking to the heads of central and local authorities, the heads of labour groups of all forms of property, the founders of former businesses, the collogists and the councils, the institutions and organizations with the request: take care of the veterans of the work, the former employees, at least give them what the conditions allow today. And the second. We have in every case a veteran’s life a set of state strategies, complex, purposeful and simple programs, but most of them remain on paper like monuments of unfulfilled promises. We need to get back to these programs, analyze them at all levels of power. I believe that every government should report on the implementation of its own program. A nation that respects its veterans, people of great age, has a future. A nation that forgets its older fellow countrymen is deprived of the future. And in conclusion, your honor, two things. First. With regard to the Supreme Council's decision-making project. A draft decision of the Supreme Council, prepared by the Preparatory Committee, was presented because a large number of members of the Committee consider the level of work that is available. which runs the government unsatisfyingly. But on the other hand, we would very much like our government hearings today to end with a decision. And that's why that draft regulation is the compromise that needs to be made in order to adopt the appropriate document. And by the way, the motions for shooting actually sounded like an estimate. The very first point is to leave, and the question that determines the evaluation of the government's work is to subtract as such from the formulation of the first point. And to conclude, I would like to hand over two requirements of the ovens that are under the walls of the Supreme Council, which are addressed to government representatives, who today represent Deputy Prime Minister of Humanitarian Affairs Dmitry Volodymyrovich Tobacco and the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Lithuania, Volodymyr Mihajlovich. [[I'll do it now.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u45	Yes, thank you. Let's move on to the discussion. John Alexanderovich Herasimov, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Council. To prepare Shevchenka, faction of the Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u46	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Respectable members of the Government! Ukraine's charter and treaty in force in the world that defines the status of older persons and the responsibility of the Government to ensure their social protection, as well as the requirements of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine on the basic principles of social protection for older veterans and other citizens, are unfortunately not being fulfilled in Ukraine. In recent years, the standard of living of this category has been unacceptably low. Moreover, of the 12 benefits provided for in the above-mentioned law, only one travel is carried out in transport and not in full. Their pensions, the main source of livelihood, are more than twice below the subsistence minimum. And the pitiful pension allowances, aid to individual veterans in the form of one-off rations, charitable meals and the like are offset by inflation and the State's uncontrolled increase in food prices and housing and utility services. Rural labour veterans, who make up a third of the rural population, are in a difficult social situation. They're almost at a price for the land rations they've already donated. Since 1 January 2004, they may also be deprived of the rights to land on which they live, since they are unlikely to be able to pay the cost of privatization in settlement areas. The question of health care for older persons, of which only one percent are healthy, is particularly pressing. Poor pensions do not allow them to buy even the cheapest drugs. Thus today, almost 8 million veterans of labour and older persons live, most of whom are children of war who have experienced its hardships, who have actively participated in the restoration of the Ukrainian population. The creation of the economic productive capacity of the State, the new pension reforms of no addition to pensions, and 90 per cent of the current pensioners of Ukraine do not provide. Moreover, the Cabinet of Ministers, by its decree of 1783 of 20 November this year, in its decision on the requirement of the Ukrainian Compulsory State Pension Insurance Act, has unduly reduced the average wage for the base year 2002 by 70 grevens, compared with the loss of reliable millions of pensioners for any increase in the pension. The Government must respond to the reason why the average wage for 2002 has been reduced. In article 1 of the Veterans'Basic Principles of Social Protection Act, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, local authorities of the State executive and local regional self-government are required to develop, implement targeted State regional social protection programmes for older citizens. However, owing to the lack of control over the implementation of the Cabinet of Ministers in virtually the absolute majority of the regions, the programme is neither developed nor implemented. Article 15 and 48 of the Act, as well as article 17 of the Business Act in Ukraine, stipulates that the duties of working groups with regard to older persons include the provision of full assistance to meet the needs of requests, which must be reflected in collective agreements. However, now that most enterprises are privatized or not working and have no profits and, on the other hand, there is no control of trade union bodies, many labour groups do not even have those contracts and the above-mentioned responsibilities are not reflected. Aware of the complexity, the need for a faster council, the task of improving the lives of veterans, the Council of the Organization of Veterans of Ukraine, which has brought together almost all veterans of labour and older persons, has not put these issues before the President, the Prime Minister, the President of the Supreme Council, by making specific proposals, demands and requests for their solution. Unfortunately, however, the train is there now. Trade unions could do much more to address these issues. Thank you. Demographers and sociologists have shown that over 28 years of work, our citizen has fully returned to society the funds spent on him in childhood, adolescence and old age, including education, housing, health care and the provision of social benefits at an adult age. Thus, every veteran of work, in most retirees, has already paid society what they do not want to pay. We believe that given the plight of veterans of labour and all pensioners, their age, health status and the merit of Ukraine, the executives are required. First. Take immediate measures to fully implement the Ukrainian Constitution, the Basic Principles of Social Protection Act. [[Finish]] And in the near future, ensure that real sources are found to obtain pensions at the minimum subsistence level. Third. Repeal the Cabinet of Ministers Decision 253 of 2 March last year on the replacement of relief benefits. Fourth. To find funds for the speedy return of valuable deposits to veterans. Fifth. Maintain VAT concessional rates on medicines, medical supplies and halt the rise in drug prices. Sixth. Find ways to compensate veterans for the increase in the price of bread. [[Ending]] Seven. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will soon develop a State social programme to provide work for veterans and other older persons. And demand the adoption of a similar programme of regions. To comply with these requirements is the duty of the State to veterans. I would like to consider my statement to be a request by the MP. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u47	Alexander Shevchenko, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party Get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u48	Alexander Shevchenko, 39th constituency, Dniproperty, Ukrainian Agrarian Party Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished members of the government, distinguished national deputies! In a civilized world, caring for pensioners, especially veterans, is the face of the state, its moral climate. The Constitution of Ukraine provides for the right to secure a decent life after they have reached retirement age. Despite numerous legal acts, the problems of protecting veterans have grown worse in recent decades. Not because Ukraine belongs to countries with a high population ageing rate, but because the material provision of pensioners, not just veterans, is quite low in purchasing power. With each passing year, there is an increase in the number of people who are older than the working age. As a senior deputy, I take more care of the electorate of my district. But pensioners’ problems are typical of all of Ukraine. We must show constant concern for those who have built an independent Ukraine who have given their health to economic, peace and well - being. Veterans’ problems should be the subject of special attention by the executive authorities on the spot. So in Dniproperty, for example, there is a set of measures to support these types of population. But this year, only about 2,000 veterans of war and labor received sanitation. Free dental and hearing aids amounting to only 600,000. Some of it takes off the stress with the means of moving the patients. This year, 1816 wheelchairs were issued, and 87 cars were handed over, twice as many as last year. But there are almost 4,000 more in line for transport. It takes 20 years to solve this problem. Phone calls have improved considerably. But the pace of the solution is projected for the next 10 years. In addition, there are a number of issues that require an immediate solution at the governmental level. Just before the disabled in the last year, commercial debt. It's 400 grand. That's right. Many complaints are made when they meet with the electorate. It is difficult to understand the reason for the difference: Why is it that every disabled person living in the home has 500 bracelets each month, and the care in the family is a few times less? Many questions are raised about the increase in the amount of aid to be paid for the release of fuel, apartment gas counters, water, and subsidies on housing subsidies. The Imperfect Passenger Transport Aid System is based on the principle of reimbursement of local budgets for subsidies from the State Budget. So there is also a timeless payment and an unsatisfactory level of service. A special situation with disabled people and veterans living in the village. All these questions relate to the life - support of deserving people. Therefore, members of the agrarian faction, all members of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party, demand that the government take more effective measures to support the veterans. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u49	Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. Yuri Carmazin will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u50	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. Regrettably, the standard of living of the people of Ukraine is at a very low level, one of the lowest in Europe. That is, 90 per cent of the population live below the poverty line. More than 60 per cent of employees receive salaries below the subsistence minimum. In short, the ghosts roam Ukraine, the ghosts of the civilized, the coffee shop, the market. Sometimes I ask myself, "Why do we do this?" Anything that should make it easier for the fairy godmother to be a state-of-the-art man is going to be on the clock. With regard to the interests of a private man, the 13th year remains a mirage, a ghost or a Fata Morgan. The same benefits or subsidies that are so much spoken of are promising, but there was no real system, no and is not foreseen in the near future. In Kirovograd region, owing to the increase in the price of bread and food, the social protection programme for poor families was reportedly approved. For example, for the city of Kirovograd, it was recommended that 100,000 should be foreseen for the programme. It's a bracelet, but it's only $23,000. Grieve. That's 20 copies per person from low-income families. I would like to learn from our rulers: What menu can you leave for this person to invest in 20 copies, comments, perhaps unnecessary. The second ghost, which can be called the question of the price of life, which is most felt for 90 per cent of the population of Ukraine, is a ghost of hunger and cold. That's right, not 33rd, but 2003. The losers of the Ukrainian village suddenly shuddered, as if they hadn't proved yesterday to be beneficial to the villagers for the reforms they had undertaken. However, the cynicism and indignation of other officials can be envied, it is clear that the hungry ministers and the Prime Ministers have a conscience to say that there is no reason for fear of hunger in Ukraine! In the bread market, the price of bread increases. After all, in Ukraine the price of bread is 5-7 times lower than European bread, but apparently ministers forget to compare European wages, European living standards, unemployment with similar Ukrainian indicators, assure us that everything in Ukraine is calm and wants to be added to the cemetery! I understand, of course, that bread, milk, meat, will be flour, but, gentlemen ministers, at what price? And when do you finally have the courage to say how to survive a simple death toll that doesn't pay months, a pensioner with a miserable pension, a student with a scholarship of 30 bracelets? I wonder why this circus is here. It must be enough to fool people, because such an attitude towards veterans is a footprint that undermines the stability of society, which can ultimately lead to the most serious conflicts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u51	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine, prepare Alexia Kozachenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u52	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, the noble veterans. Perhaps you are listening to those who have not yet broken entirely TV sets or who are still receiving TVs. You're listening to Government Day. You have heard, as I have heard, the speech by the distinguished Minister of Social Policy, Michael Papiev, although it was not for the minister to speak on this issue - the Prime Minister was to speak on this issue. Because the minister cannot answer the questions and the failures that have been made today, especially in the adoption of the budget. By the way, I have a big question: how did the sick president sign the 27th decree, the Budget Act of the 27th. He's the head of the Budget Committee on the 30th. There are many questions about the birth of antinational documents. But you need to know. You're planning, you know, honorable government officials, that by 2008, you're going to have to make a minimum pension on a living minimum. What about the veterans? Almost 50 percent is still unattainable. You say 52 percent. But many do not have 50 percent of the minimum income. What should we do before that? It is expected that there will be no more veterans and no more disabled ones. Look at the approach now taken by the government. I'm taking and analyzing with you, for example, the Act on Fundamental Principles of Social Protection for Labour Veterans and Other Elderly Citizens in Ukraine. 12 rights, aid, what's called, and actually these are guarantees to Ukrainian citizens. You only do one thing, you say, "It's all good." Government decree of March 2, 2002, "Approving a strategy to replace the aid system with an address money aid to the population", which is being used today. And in the State Budget Act, you stopped, the government, along with the so-called anti-national majority, stopped doing 32 laws. You've stopped 80 social sites, 80! Now, on the adoption of the change strategy, this is in 2002 the government's decree of March 2nd. And the government writes, "The total amount of aid needs more than 29 billion dollars a year, which is equal to the annual expenditure of all the local budgets of Ukraine. Legal instruments on these issues have been adopted in some places without taking into account changes and so forth. What are we talking about? In fact, it is a review of the current legislation by the executive government and the failure to comply with existing legislation. And at the same time, today I was happy to hear a report from the chairman of the Cybenk Committee, but I can't understand who was at the time preparing Decree 4464 on Government Day. Who? He's another man, he didn't cook Zibenko. This is a very different approach. What the government does here is approved. If the committee did so, it would just have to stop doing such a committee then.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u53	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u54	Because it's an anti-national decree. And I ask you to look at and acknowledge the government's actions as unsatisfactory as their people today do. And understand why 400 grams of coal, and we give the coal industry 4 billion dollars and 400 grams of tons of coal.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u55	Thanks again. Alexy Kozachenko. The People's Authority MP. Get ready for Komara.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u56	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Dear members of the government! Against the backdrop of positive trends over the past two years in the economy of the country, there has been an increase in the volume of gross domestic product and industrial production, a deterioration in the standard of living for the population, a deepening of society for the rich and the poor. Official sources of the poor population in Ukraine now account for nearly 27 percent of the population, and 14.7. And what's most unfortunate is that these categories include labor veterans -- people who have made a major contribution to the construction of our state. The main normative act in the field of social protection for veterans is the Ukrainian Act on the Basic Principles of Social Protection for Labour Veterans and Other Citizens of the Age of Ukraine. The law defines a list of persons who are considered to be veterans of work. The special status of veterans is due to their strong contribution to the construction of the state in the form of long - term work, including particularly heavy and harmful working conditions. Earlier, veterans were encouraged by a higher level of retirement, which was determined by the way they were employed and the nature of their production. Later, during the economic crisis and the state budget’s deciwattage, the pension policy was changed, resulting in the majority of the veterans’ work being out of poverty. The main reason for this situation is the determination of the amount of pensions without taking into account the length of the period of employment of the Ukrainian Act on National Compulsory Pension Insurance, to a certain extent, is to solve the problem. However, much will depend on the income mechanism on which pensions will be determined. In view of the fact that for 11 years the State has demonstrated its inability to provide the veterans with an adequate level of pension insurance, the implementation of the benefits provided by law is extremely important. As has been noted repeatedly, practice shows that out of the 12 benefits provided by law, one and partly-free urban and suburban transport is being implemented. The rest of the aid for a number of reasons is not being implemented enough. The benefits provided by the law include: the use of clinics when retiring, the first-line free dental care, the first-line care in health care and prevention facilities, the use of annual leave at a convenient time, the predominant right to housing and so on. Repeatedly, the press reports a terrible order of service, such as in dental hospitals. Older people have to take turns for months before they are given free services with appropriate quality. Small costs due to government budget constraints caused by inefficient management of funds are sometimes allocated to sanatorium-sport treatments for veterans of labor, and do not compensate for even half the cost of travel. The amount of housing expenses and the low pace of housing do not allow veterans to work to realize their predominant right to housing. So today we can say that the declarant is an effective law. So the law passed in 1993 is obsolete and does not meet modern economic conditions. The vast majority of his standards are obsessive, and so this law needs to be redrafted. Its standards should be provided by appropriate government programs. When it comes to social security for veterans, instead of providing benefits, it is preferable to prefer the effectiveness of the pension system. The information program needs to be implemented as quickly as possible, including the automation of the retirement process. Pension legislation sets out a list of conditions under which citizens are entitled to a pension, which does not include the obligation to collect information from institutions and organizations. The latter is the responsibility of the State in the person of the competent authorities. It is necessary to determine whether a system of benefits is justified for low-income citizens of Ukraine and whether it is necessary to switch to an address money system. If the relief system is still more effective, the mechanism for providing it needs to be put into place. Measures taken during 2004 to ensure Ukraine's transition to targeted material assistance to low-income citizens proved insufficient to implement such a system in 2004. It is no longer possible to put this question to rest. And I have to say my word in this, first of all, to the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u57	Mikola Komar, faction of Ukraine. Get ready for Vassil.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u58	Dear colleagues! There is now quite an active development of the network of regional social services centres for pensioners and single incapacitated citizens, now numbering 745 in Ukraine. If domestic service in the early 1980s was limited to two, three services, this list is now reaching 40 species. The structure of the center has changed dramatically. Social services at home have been added to the social welfare and social rehabilitation departments, the stationing offices for temporary permanent residence, the money and natural assistance departments, various buildings and districts, now more than 3,000. I want to give you an example of a social service organization in the Donetsk region. There are 63 local centers serving 65,000 people. The activities of these institutions are aimed at improving the health of citizens, their well - being, their return to full life, and the self - realization of those who have sought help. At the same time, the heads of these institutions have one painful issue: financing. At the very beginning of the establishment and existence of these institutions, funding was carried out according to the needs of the cost centre, which paid for salaries and municipal services. In 2001, there were 90 copies per pensioner per year of the cost of maintaining the centres. Since the development of the network of territorial centres and the number of single citizens in the areas vary, such a single shift in expenditure formation has led to a crisis situation and funding for 17 areas. So in these 17 areas, funding for the normal functioning of the centres was insufficient, and in 10 other areas, more than necessary was allocated. In 2002 and 2003, the number of pensioners was not taken into account, but the number of single incapacitated citizens found and taken to serve the local centres. Finally, there are some more than 21 bracelets per month available for one person serving the branch office. In addition, at this stage, the number of people in the area’s centres is used to calculate the number of persons on January 1st of the year leading up to the year in which the budget is budgeted. There are no expenditures for the development of a material and technical base of centres, and there is no equipment that is essential for expanding the number of services. Thus, on January 1, 2003, more than one million citizens were identified in need of social services. And institutions serve only over 700,000 people, given the lack of funding. Questions arise as to what services can be provided over the month for 21 bracelets, especially for citizens who cannot do anything at all and who are barely moving around the room. In view of what has been said, I would like to reexamine the approach to financing the centres and return to funding in line with the needs of each institution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u59	Yes, Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag, National Choice MP. Get ready, Kirichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u60	Vassili Nadrag, Lugansk Region, People's Choice. Dear colleagues, I would like to begin my little speech in general with two theses. First: it is hard for us to assume that we can make decent social protection if there are problems in the economy, because social protection is the economic potential of society and the State. If that resource is not enough today, today and now, respectively, it is simply an illusion, I think. Second. I believe that, to date, to a great extent, the veterans of labour, unlike the deeply respected veterans of war, are still out of sight, and the emphasis is still on war veterans to a greater extent. Although the category of veterans in the Lugansk region is almost 400,000. Man, these are the people who worked. Yes, they did not fight, but they gave their best years to the country, and they did. Accordingly, I am deeply convinced that they have earned their worthy old age. Next moment. Certainly today, and this is where the Minister's report says what's going on. I would not want to go into global problems today, but I would like to mention some of those that, in my view, require a solution. This may not always be the case, perhaps, with regard to financial issues, how many issues have been dealt with in terms of how the regulatory framework is regulated and, accordingly, on which regulatory basis a veteran may or may not be able to obtain certain benefits and, accordingly, the State's support. This has already been mentioned, for example, the subject of health care for veterans of labour, which to date is regulated by two documents: a letter from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy dated 29.07.03 by number 14 and a letter from the Ministry of Finance dated 12.06.03 by number 03151. Thus, if, according to the first labour veterans, they are provided with sanatorium-sort travel through the acquisition of subsidies from the State budget, they are only entitled, according to Minfina's letter, to priority provision of sanatorium-surort treatment. That is, one document says that veterans should receive this free of charge, another says that they can simply be granted the right to receive these sanatoriums for their own money. I believe that in this case it is the task of the Cabinet of Ministers to resolve this situation. The next moment, we are talking about that funding for the social costs of the budget is largely in place, but this is not the only problem. For example, today it is only necessary, deeply convinced, to expand the network of territorial centres and where emphasis should be placed on labour veterans. And lastly, due to time constraints. Deeply convinced that the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy should nevertheless further explain and promote and explain the benefits of veterans. Let me give you an example of 22,000 requests to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy this year for an explanation of the specific regulatory framework. I therefore believe that to date, the issue of explaining to veterans their rights, duties, benefits and all that they have from the State is a necessary task that will help them to understand what they are entitled to. And most importantly, don't run around the office and find out. And what they can still get from the State for their many years of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u61	Ludmila Kirichenko, faction of Ukraine, prepare for Zubova instead of Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u62	Kirichenko, 108 electoral body of the Lugansk region. Dear colleagues, members of the government! One of the major challenges and most relevant for my district is the provision of household coal for coal veterans in the regions. We adopted the 2004 budget. The Government has sought additional resources of 100 million bracelets to cover the arrears of past years of solid fuel subsidies. And that gives hope. But what is happening today is the implementation of article 40 of the 2003 budget. I have 15 miners in the district. Under the law, they must be provided free of charge with fuel. But the enterprise only implements the plan by 26 per cent. During the year, 21,000 coals were mined. Retired coal miners need 51,000 tons. As a result, people who have spent their entire life underground must buy coal at market prices or freeze. No compensation can be made. It's winter. And in all levels of reception, there are rows of veterans who only have benefits on paper and cannot actually get coal. I've never once sent you requests to the Cabinet of Ministers and received answers that the calculation of subsidies takes into account the possibilities of a single budget for all regions of the methodology. In general, there is a paradox around the county. There are no claims against the Government to provide fuel on destroyed mines. Carbon-restructuring by 100 per cent provides coal for former workers and pensioners. At the same time, only 10 per cent of mine miners and veterans are provided. A similar situation exists with the provision of fuel for war-disability and fighting actors. In the Perval area, 935 veterans of war. They require 296,000 bracelets to be fully secured. Actually received 48,000 bracelets. That's hardly enough for a war invalid. And the participants in the fighting are not provided at all and are left without fuel for the winter. And it's not just in my district. Coal enterprises are unable to provide fuel to their pensioners. Therefore, in the allocation of subsidies by region, I strongly request that this point be taken into account and that subsidies be actually planned rather than that of the mines. Next problem. Today, coal miners are transferring a broken social sphere to communal property: non-working boilers. The entire village, where the veterans are mainly resident, is not heated. In the Pervali district, for example, fully depreciated boilers have been handed over to local communities. As a result, nine villages were running out of fuel: Zorinsk, Maloyanovsk, Chernoukino and so on. Construction of the main gas pipeline is the only real solution. Subsidies allocated to the District for the People's Deputies have been sent to the reconstruction of the smithy and the construction of the gas pipeline. Of course, this amount is not sufficient for regions with such problems. I therefore strongly request Minfin to take into account the characteristics of coal regions when approving fixed costs and to include these amounts in the calculation of transfers. And then there's the last question. According to section 63 of the budget adopted, local authorities can provide cash fuel benefits. This is the beginning of a search for help. But there's no instruction material on the ground. They are used by the 1994 Cabinet of Ministers. There is now a need to develop a mechanism for providing targeted benefits. The main thing is to make it easier for retirees, veterans to redesign documents. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, I ask you to begin immediately with the suggestions that need to be entered into the ruling. Valentin Zubov instead of Javorowski. Get ready, Rajko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u64	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people. I have repeatedly had to say in this Hall that we will never solve any of the problems facing Ukraine today if we do not learn to tell the truth, the truth first of all to ourselves, to our constituents. What the minister said in the room today is, in a very mild way, simply not true. Today, Mr. Minister had to focus on highlighting the issue: why Ukrainian legislation on the social protection of veterans, who was personally responsible and who should be brought to justice. We all know that in 1993 the basic law on the social protection of veterans was adopted, 10 years ago, that article 46 of the Constitution guarantees pensioners a minimum pension. And we hear here that we're doing great, we're doing just fine. In this regard, I would like to stress that at this stage, the very important issue that my colleagues have raised today is that millions, tens of millions of our pensioners live below the poverty line, that the minimum pension is only 34 per cent of the minimum standard of living, that the maximum pension is only 56 per cent of the subsistence minimum. The question is, how to live? How can these people survive? And it's not surprising that they don't really survive, that in fact, out of 15,000 suicides in Ukraine, 70 percent of them are veterans, that out of 200,000 suicide attempts, 80 percent are labor veterans who are thrown out to help. And the worst thing that upsets me is that when we're so cold, we're indifferent to this problem, it's that everywhere, with all the information, we're told that there's no money in the state. I say with all my responsibility, this is a lie! Another lie! There's money in the state. You remember when you took the budget. Experts estimate that at least 9 billion are hidden in the presidential elections. We know well that much of the budget is breaking up. At the recognition of the President of Ukraine today, his statement was recently made, today more than 40 billion grevens are extracted from Ukraine's sub-regions, and only 1 billion grevens are budgeted. Where are they? Let's move on. This year's budget is 100 million more than last year's total amount of almost half a billion bracelets. [[The State Administration of the case]] That's the real money to put on veterans and tomorrow all problems can be solved. And in closing, I want to say, by addressing the veterans. You don't need that power system today. And until you understand that until you unite your relatives, your loved ones, your children, until you say "no" to this system of power. No one will change your situation, your situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u65	People's deputy Rajkov instead of Gavrish. Alexander Borzih will be next. You don't? Got it? Olga Hinsburg will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u66	Boris Rykov, 200 district, Chercassy. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! For no one is the news that in Ukraine you have to be healthy and rich and yet desirable and unprincipled to enjoy all the benefits of life. Our society lives by the notion of not even a wild sunset, not a certain romance and gentlemanhood, but the wild capitalism of the late 19th century multiplied by the cruelty of the criminal environment. [[in cages]] People who for some reason are weaker or sicker are left alone with their grief and can rely only on their relatives to help them. Not surprisingly, in the streets of Ukraine you will hardly see veterans, they are destined by the state to sit at home and count the coins until the next pension. Perhaps that is why most of us do not consider the very fact that there are veterans of work, disabled persons as a result of work disability, let alone the quality of their existence. In addition, about 12 percent of the Ukrainian population or 1 out of every 8 citizens is a veteran of work. Today, Ukraine has faced a high level of population ageing. The proportion of people who are older than the working age of the general population is increasing each year. At present, Ukraine has about 30 percent of the population. Such a situation can lead to a sharp increase in social expenditure from the state budget. Therefore, reforming pension legislation is an urgent and necessary task. Dear colleagues! It is very bitter to see people who have been abandoned in a state that is once reputable. They're being dumped on the sidelines like garbage. And just like that. We've learned not to notice them. The State preferred to transfer part of the social security costs to private individuals. And that's right. But it is wise to do so not only with a stick but also with a pepper sprayer. In Poland, for example, the employer receives a subsidy to provide employment from a social protection fund for veterans. And you don't have to think that the social security of veterans is expensive and expensive. Health, education, integration of all citizens into society, social and useful work, as well as financing for environmental protection, are non-refundable, negligible costs, which is the only possible prerequisite for the sustainable development of the state. You don't have to make one year of disabled people, another year of orphans, another year of veterans, you need to be in Ukraine every year a year a person, a citizen, an active member of society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u67	Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction. Jaroslav Suhi will perform after Olga Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u68	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Respectable voters! 161 constituency, Communist faction, Ginsburg. My parents taught me to treat the elders with respect, the Soviet authorities taught me this and today, speaking from this rostrum, treating the veterans of my district and Ukraine with respect, speaking of the people who went through the fronts of the Great Homeland War, speaking of the people who recovered after the Great Homeland War in 500 days, in less than two years, all the destroyed people's agriculture, it was a fact that passed on to the new generation "Brightty, enjoy" and all that we enjoy today, the new power in Ukraine. It's all built with veterans' hands. By putting my head in front of them, I want to say that there are a lot of problems to be said, but here I am reading a letter from my electorate. And against the backdrop of this letter, the fate of all the veterans of our Ukraine who live today, waiting for the deputies they have chosen, to have some help. This is from the town of Shastka, Bokova's voter. "I never thought a veteran of labor would have to live so hard in old age. I can't remember the last time I bought olive oil, all I had to do was dream about a piece of meat. For me, the meat for the bursket or the soup is fertilized bones, which are worth up to six bracelets, and they can be bought as soon as they're on holiday. All I can do is look at the food counters, instead of the fish of the hams, at six bracelets. In the past three weeks, the price of bread has changed twice. After my husband's death, I started walking on torture. In Ukraine, such laws are easy to read. My husband and I were living together, building everything from a common pocket. My husband died, and I was an heir. And I'm walking now, I'm asking the State for my papers. Since August 2003, she has been preparing documents for the garage. How much tears and nerves have been shed. I'm 70 years old. It's like they're just trying to win. It is no wonder that some have voluntarily left this life. I paid about 250 bracelets for the paperwork on the garage. Finally, on 3 November, she received a state act against the deceased. And they say to form yourself, to go through the same channels, to pay for the same amount of money. And I don't have that money. In the land section, I asked how the land could be transformed into a husband. They explained the same thing as the garage. What's become of subsidy. It's not for the weak. To benefit from the grant, you now need to get a watercanal certificate, and the subscription book is no longer suitable. I spent two hours on that report. In addition to the certificate, the declaration must be completed on the six pages of the printed text. Figured it out even better, started walking around the apartments with a search. They see how the citizens live, if they don't have a color TV, a new refrigerator, some new furniture. I was born in 1932, and my year is going out to include me in the Great Homeland War, and during the war I was able to do my best to win. You went to the mountains, but they told me about the benefits of not having witnesses to go to Russia, and you provided some evidence there. I didn't insist, I don't have any money to go for. God be with them. But it's offensive." And the next election will come. And this woman says, "I'm not going to the election because I don't trust anyone anymore." And you and I, the people's deputies, today must make a decision and commit this decision to the Government, the President and you to enact laws that would facilitate the existence of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u69	Jaroslav Suhi. Get ready for Konovaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u70	Dear National Deputies! Unfortunately, the political elite of the Ukrainian people have demonstrated an extremely low level of political culture in this room over and over again. I'm really sorry to talk about it. How to explain what happened yesterday during the parliamentary hearings during the return of savings and today on Government Day instead of grouping together. Consolidating Ukraine’s national deputies in search of a legislative solution to issues of real improvement of the people’s standard of living, once again there is strife, hostility, mistrust, voter charges, the search for enemies, some press and labeling. Is that what people expect of us today? Don't we, as major MPs, know what's going on? So is this rostrum to continue a rally that didn't end in 2002? Is it their fault, or is it the people's fault that someone today has fallen into a falstart and started a presidential race without constructive suggestions or positives, based on political hysteria and psychosis to keep people's attention to themselves? Is it not clear that such destruction is damaging to the people and will uphold the authority of the Supreme Council? Dear National Deputies! Don't we have something to tell people today? Do we not today have anything to come to them with? Don't we have something to offer the government today? Why are we not talking about our legislative proposals today? Why are we not talking about their reasoning? Who does not like the money allocated to government administration? Well, that's an MP, you'd be ashamed! This is the MP's hospital, this is the MP's travel. Give them up!Oh, my God! What did the Marjorie MPs require of us? What did humans require of us? They demanded a clear pension reform. They demanded a pension reform with a social principle of justice. What did we get? We passed a new pension law that was supposed to solve the problems of those categories, those veterans of work that expected the redistribution of pensions. Since January 1, 2004, the pension limit will indeed be lifted to the maximum that today is set at the level of three or four minimum pensions per age. But on the one hand, a group of hysterical deputies, on the other hand, are lying government officials. Whoever introduced this, I am completely in solidarity with the deputy Gerasim who raised this question. Why the statistical figure 376 turned into 306, why we're starting to save on what we're going to do. We have promised justice, I call on the government and I call on the Supreme Council of Ukraine to act in a common, consolidated manner. Only then can we really improve the lives of our pensioners, our veterans.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u71	I announced Valery Konovaluk the last time we spoke.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u72	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Let's calm down and really sum up this very important issue that the Supreme Council is currently considering. Dear colleagues! I believe that the fundamental principles of public policy regarding veterans of work and other elderly citizens are not actually able to form a humane, respectful attitude towards a given category of citizens. The Cabinet of Ministers and other executive authorities and local self - government have failed for a long time to fully provide State social guarantees and legal guarantees for these categories. I think we have every reason, even in these circumstances, to solve problems that would really improve the situation of our citizens. There's a gap in the social protection system, there's no clear distinction between statistical and financial security for veterans, and there's no clear distinction between veterans and war veterans. This makes it difficult to analyze the implementation of public policy, including in a given category of veterans. The current levels of social protection of this population category lie on the surface, the real size of social benefits to disabled workers is much smaller than the minimum wage. Under the scheme of social protection for veterans of work and other categories of senior citizens, the effect of a closed circle is actually working. The government, which has successfully translated the problem of social protection into the local authorities, does not actually provide the resources of the State budget for their delegation. There was a significant difference, and there was also a minimal and maximum price for tariffs and services of the population, which, on the one hand, between areas within one area and on the one hand, resulted in damage, such as service providers and other additional burdens on public and local budgets. What do we want to offer in this regard? First, look at the existing social protection system in order to ensure the viability of all its components, to clearly distinguish all existing categories at all stages of implementing their economic, legal, social guarantees, without prejudice to narrowing the scope or content of existing legislation. To improve the current order of payment of non-insured contributions to the National Insurance Fund for industrial accidents and occupational diseases, to analyze work. expert commissions, identify ways of improving them and reforming them, ensure transparency and openness of their activities, accelerate the creation of a single automated register of persons with benefits in accordance with current legislation. And the last. Dear colleagues, we can really fight against these problems for a long time, but without the balanced actions that the government should offer us, it will be very difficult to consider improving, indeed, the life activities of our citizens of these categories, the type of population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u73	Let's finish. With Katuschev's motives, a microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u74	We believe that the Ukrainian Act on the Basic Principles for the Social Protection of Veterans of Labour and Other Citizens of Prominent Age in Ukraine is morally outdated. In fact, only one section of the Act is implemented today, which provides benefits for special earners. Public and local budgets are fully funded for health care, and no funds are provided. The issue of housing for veterans, individual housing loans are not resolved. In Crimea, we have 219,000 veterans. The average pension is 151.15 bracelets. Only a pensioner needs to spend 43 bracelets a month if there are no chronic diseases. Tell me, can our pensioners survive on such a pension?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u75	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, we will conclude our consideration of this subject, which is extremely painful and affects a wide range of people. I'd like the committee to work out a draft regulation that takes into account the suggestions that we just said that we've taken some real approach to improve the situation so that poor people and only poor people don't feel patriotic. Because we have such realities that this very category of people feels like Ukrainian citizens. To make them feel not only at this patriotic level, but both economically and socially. The government day is over. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 35 minutes, half an hour. I thank all those who took part in this consideration: government representatives, representatives of public organizations of veterans.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, please come into the session room and take your seats. Let's keep working. The report of the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine on the state of affairs between coal industries and thermal power plants and the electricity wholesale market on the results of the fuel and energy complex in the first half of 2003 and the implementation of the Plan for the Restructuring of the Coal Industry is under review. The committee proposes such rules of procedure for the consideration of the matter. For the Minister's report, within 15 minutes, the answers to the questions are up to 10 minutes. For co-reporters and for discussion and acceptance, it's time to take the rest of the 45 minutes to consider the issue. [[Two co-rapporteurs: Head of Committee Kljevov Andri Petrovich and initiator of the debate on this issue Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich, deputy head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship]] We usually talk for 45 minutes. Let's have 20 minutes to talk. No objections? I thank you then. Please, Sergey Fedorovich, begin consideration of the question of the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u77	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, members of the meeting! The crucial role of the coal industry in ensuring the dynamic development of the national economy, in increasing its energy potential, and in preserving social stability in the coal regions of Ukraine explains the increased attention of the government and parliament to the state of the country. In my March report to the Supreme Council, I noted that the rapid decline in production volumes, the financial crisis, the completely deformed economic mechanism of reproduction, and a series of acute social problems, particularly those related to the condition and payment of coal work, were a difficult legacy with which the government had adopted a branch. Ensuring Ukraine’s movement through sustained energy and economic security, increased competitiveness of the national producer, effective integration into European economic space objectively require changing outdated nonmarket forms of management and structural elements and proportions in one of the fundamental sectors of the economy. In recent times, coal companies, open stock companies, and producer associations have only formally worn market marks and were, in fact, unmarketable, uncompetitive, neither at the quality of the product nor at the price. They were chronically in need of state support, they were stockpiling loans, they were self-constitutional enterprises. At the end of February 2003, a working group on coal reform was formed by Minpalevenergo, which included representatives of the Ministry, national deputies, scientists, business leaders, and governments of coal companies. The work of the working group resulted in the development of an anti-crisis plan for the restructuring and financial recovery of the coal industry for 2003. The anti - crisis plan envisioned a concentration of efforts in several main directions. Today, it is possible to evaluate the results obtained and identify the problems that need to be solved in the near future. First. In order to preserve the reproductive potential of the sector, which has been reduced in recent years at a critical pace, a decision was made in early 2003 to restore the integration of technology and farming complexes from coal production. These complexes were disrupted by ineffective reforming of bankruptcy, so-called, sanitation, shadow privatization, and so on. In 2002, there were 660 coal companies in the Minpalevenergo administration, most of which were cost-effective, and the activity, taking into account the constraints and the state of production, was economically unsuspecting. Organizationally, the economic activities of these entities did not allow them to provide even simple, let alone expansion, reproduction. The urgency of structural changes was evident even to non-experts. Since May 2003, 21 state - owned enterprises with a closed carbon cycle have been established on the basis of numerical holding companies and manufacturing associations. The positive effects of setting up state-owned enterprises, which I'm about to mention in more detail, allowed them to increase their investment attractiveness and move on to the next restructuring, corporateization of new businesses. As the conditions are realized, open carbon stock companies will be privatized with whole assets. This will allow them to be more competitive and eventually to carry out economic content and form of business in line with world market standards. Because of the fierce opposition to this transformation, which lasted at the end of 2002 and during the first quarter of this year, we were only able to make it to practical realization in April. I now thank the National Deputies for hearing my report in March, and you have not denied this reorganization. For several months, it is not the time when all possible results and crisis measures are displayed. However, the problem has been accumulated in the field for years. But some positive results have been obtained, and this shows the correctness of the chosen path. In 2003, for the first time since the long - term depression of the sector and the next phase of a threatening fall, which began in 2002, a negative trend has been broken. If the rate of reduction was 12 percent in the first quarter, in the second quarter, the third quarter showed that the rate was one and a half percent of the increase in carbon stocks, compared with the corresponding periods in 2002. These results were largely ensured by the implementation of the carbon intensity strategy. By the end of October, the pressure on the complex mechanized discharge was 759 tons per day, 31 tons more than the same period last year. However, a more typical indicator of production is the volume of coal products, because it is the product of final consumption in energy and coxochemicals. An inherited decline in the volume of coal products since 2002, a fall of 6.8 percent, which was still in effect in the first quarter of the year, was broken. There is a steady increase in the volume of goods. If the volume of product in the first quarter of this year was 14 percent below the 2002 figure, the deficit is nearly eliminated in 11 months. The representation of integrated coal companies in the form of a state-owned enterprise, the transfer by the government of inter-branch relations to a level that is approaching the market format, has contributed to the filling of the income part of the sector balance. In the first quarter of 2003, all categories of consumers were estimated at 86 percent. The January-September calculation rate was already 88.5 percent. On the other hand, 11 months later, it increased to 90.1 percent. I want to take some time off from the coals of Minpalevenergo's energy-generating companies, because that's what they accounted for. During the last months, heat companies that consume about half of their total coal production have paid an average of 97 percent for their consumption of coal. Government action, reform of industry management, has allowed the financial and economic situation of most coal enterprises to improve. For example, in October compared to January of this year, coal companies’ income increased by 86 million dollars, and losses decreased by 49 million dollars a month. In nine months, the deficit has been reduced twice to cover the cost and cost of coal production by one ton from 48 dollars to 20 dollars. With a view to further financial balance in the sector, an individual economic programme for 2004 has been developed for every state-owned industrial enterprise. This program will eliminate uncovered damage in the cost of coal products. In the following year, the technology resuscitation program for coal companies is the foundation for further business stability. In particular, the introduction of 51 lavas, equipped with new technology, will produce 14 million tons of coal. A concrete result of government anti-crisis measures on the coal industry is the development of deep-seizure enterprises, which were recently considered coal-based companies Shahtarskantracite, Terezantracite, Snow-Anthracite, Anthracit.Coal. The production volume of Shakhtarscanthrocyte, recorded in October, increased by 26 percent compared to January, Torezantracite, 74 percent, 77 percent after Luhansk region. The volume of goods in the state-owned company Snow Anthracite has increased by 5.4 times. The government still pays considerable attention to processes related to the closure of mines that have completed their deadline. Especially to mitigate the socio-economic consequences of these processes, the total amount of budget funding for restructuring the sector, namely, 592 million dollars in 11 months of the current year, costing to mitigate the environmental and socio-economic consequences of mine removal, amounted to 420.5 million dollars. It's important to note that solving the manufacturing problems of coal-based enterprises creates a reliable basis for solving the socio-economic development problems of the areas where they are located. Solving the social problems of paying off existing debt from wages to coal workers was one of the government’s priorities in 2003. In order to systematically address debt obligations for workers, a comprehensive programme of debt relief for coal workers was developed and approved in July of this year during 2003-2004. With the participation of the trade unions, the schedules for its repayment are drawn up. At the beginning of 2003, coal debt amounted to $1 billion,119 million and continued to increase during the first quarter. But during April and October, the current debt from the remuneration of coal miners was reduced by 125 million. That's right. In October, 100.1 percent of the monthly wage was paid in the field, and a total of 97 percent is paid for 10 months. Regrettably, not all state - owned enterprises are yet able to pay the current full wage. Inadequate debt repayment rates from wage payments to miners are forcing Minpalevenergo to step up efforts to solve this problem and speed up the more radical changes that I'm going to talk about later. We call for cooperation when these tasks are done by the national deputies as well. During 2003, there was a significant reduction in debt from regressive actions and one-time aid, which amounted to 339 million at the beginning of the year. In November 1, the debt was reduced by 78.5 million. That's right. A strategic indicator of the development of the coal sector is the preparation of new production capacities that directly ensure the reproduction of the carbon base. In 2003, nearly 100 percent of government capital financing and the financial situation of enterprises increased as a result of the growth of coal-based core funds. In January-August 2003, more than 1.4 billion enterprises were funded by all sources of finance. Of which, at their own expense, is 626 million dollars. That's right. In the current year, Minpalevenergo is fundamentally concerned with suppliers of materials and equipment for mines, requiring them to be transparent and price-based. careful monitoring of the implementation of contracts for the timely delivery of the appropriate quality of mining equipment will allow not only to ensure the planned introduction of lava, to reduce the production costs of state-owned enterprises, but also to make more efficient use of budget support costs. For the same purpose, Minpalevenergo made appropriate proposals for the implementation of the budget in 2005 of allocating part of the budget for technical resupply already on a reverse basis. One of the main indicators of coal stability is that over 11 months, 24 million 80,000 tons of domestic coal were placed at the thermal power plant, 738 tons more than last year. The level of coal supply at TEC corresponds to the planned balance that is sufficient for the stable operation of national energy. But you have to understand and take into account that the state's energy balance includes all kinds of energy carriers and the additional cost of coal on the TEC in the current year primarily ensured an increase in electricity production, despite the arrival of natural gas much lower than the approved volumes. The current year has also seen an increase in the supply of coal to district fuel-supply organizations. During the 11 - month period, the quantity of carbon was 1 million 843,000 tons, 2.2 times the same rate last year. In carrying out the anti-crisis program on the coal sector, the government has given due attention to improving safety and safety at work. In general, a coal mine safety program is being implemented and a complex coal - layer degasification program is being implemented. The appropriate amount of funding in the current year has increased the level of supply of miners with individual and collective protection, which is one of the most topical problems in the field. Improvements in the protection of coal businesses have contributed to the reduction of manufacturing trauma with severe consequences. The end result of increasing financial revenues in the sector is increased by increasing the financial discipline of business managers, especially in terms of spending budgetary resources. This was facilitated by the introduction of financial planning and the improvement of enterprise management. Through processing and monthly protection of economic programs. The enhanced control and audit work is aimed at preventing violations and abuses, as well as strengthening financial discipline. Since the beginning of the year, 747 such tests have been carried out at businesses and organizations. For violations and shortcomings detected in financial and economic activities, 2,878 officials have been brought to disciplinary and material responsibility, 50 of whom have been released from positions, 98 checks have been transferred to law enforcement agencies. As a market mechanism to reconcile the interests of industries and a tool to achieve price transparency in Minvalvenergo, the concept of the wholesale energy market was developed. It is now being implemented actively, and in November a market founder’s congregation was established and a cooperation agreement was signed. The desire to join this agreement was shown by some 40 companies. The introduction of wholesale market mechanisms will guarantee 100 per cent of coal production calculations, help create conditions for increased coal production, eventually eliminating administrative intervention in the management of cash flows, allowing the elimination of cross-subsidisation of energy and coal enterprises. Markets, not administrative pricing principles for coal, will contribute to the establishment of an economically sound, equilibrium price for this strategically important type of fuel. During the January - October period, positive changes have also occurred in the energy field. The most important proof of this is energy security, economic growth in the state. During the 10 months of this year, electricity production in the state increased by 5.7 percent. Improvements in the wholesale electricity market have led to an increase in both the level of calculations and the amount of costs to be incurred by its manufacturers. During January - October, the market rate was 92.8 percent, last year it was 89.1 percent. The energy market with electricity producers accounted for 94 percent. During the 10 months of 2003, 14 billion dollars were spent on electricity. That's 2 billion more than last year. This has enabled energy companies to increase their energy efficiency, prepare properly for the winter, make the necessary fuel production, and increase budgeting. During the 10 - month period, PEC has paid 7.5 billion dollars to the State Budget, 418 million more than the corresponding amounts last year. Thus, improving the state of calculations in the wholesale electricity market, increasing the level of payment of coal-fired enterprises by electricity and the calculation of coal-fired heat generation, some positive developments in the development of the country's coal industry are related to the key tasks identified by the Government's work programme, supported by the Supreme Council and the April decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the evaluation of Minpolivenergo's activities from the restructuring of the coal industry. Much help in addressing PEC’s development problems, such as debt problems for energy and coal industries, can be provided by you, the honourable national deputies. The speeding up of the adoption of laws on debt for energy, the imposition of a moratorium on enforcement and the arrest of funds, the addition to paragraph 5.9 of the Law on Taxation of Enterprises, the amendment of the Law on Recovery of Payments of the Debtor or the recognition of Bankruptcy on Coal Enterprises, which have already been submitted to the Supreme Council, will be an important contribution to our joint development of the fuel and energy sector of the State. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, members of the meeting, the Ministry of Fuel and Energy experienced considerable support from you for the legislative regulation of the fuel and energy complex during 2003. Today, the Government and the Supreme Council of Ukraine are able to work together on the task of restoring the coal industry. The following year, 2004 should and may be a turning point for the development of the sector. There are good reasons for that. Even now, this is facilitated by the adoption of the 2004 Supreme Council of the State Budget and the further implementation of the coal crisis programme by the Ministry. And in that I hope for your support and fruitful cooperation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u78	Yeah, let's get to the questions, dear fellows. Please sign up. Please state the names of the national MPs on the board. Vladimir Yeshchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u79	Fucking Communist faction. Cherkas region. I have a question for you, Sergey Fedorovich, next plan. Today, we are listening to the question not only how your actions are being implemented in the first half of the year, but also how the plan for the restructuring of the coal industry is being implemented. I want to ask you a question about a mining town in Chercas, Vatutino. My repeated appeals to you and to Kabmin on the issue of the allocation of funds to create jobs in this city, allowing former miners to work in a new place and, above all, the protests that have been going on there repeatedly, and my meetings with the mayor of this city of Rudenko, show that these issues are being resolved very slowly. So I'm asking you very much to take into account the questions that Vatutin has in both the work and the ministry and the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u80	Thank you for asking. I think you know that you're asking such a very detailed question that we've made a special trip to the department where the mayor of Vatutino also spoke. And today's funding, and now it's building a factory in Vatutino for the production of plastic pipes, and other measures are being taken. I think we'll settle all the questions in the city of Vatutino. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u81	Basil Nadrag, National Choice MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u82	Dear Sergey Fedorovich! Our discussions with you about what is being done in the coal industry are being interpreted in such a way that improved coal calculations will lead to, as one of the basic tasks of the Ministry, to reduce wages. That's when I have a question. Lugansk Region, 45 per cent of Ukraine's energy coals. This year, until 1 November, wages for miners increased by 20 million dollars and operational data for November increased by 11.3 million dollars. I have a question: "So what was done?" Because you say there was a reduction. The facts speak little of other things. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u83	I called the totals after the salary cut and said in the report that unfortunately not all coal companies are yet able to pay the current salary. These companies are, for example, the state-owned firm Donbas Anthracite, which is now in the worst, most difficult state. Today, we have carried out additional special measures in this enterprise by the Lugansk district administration. I think you're about to see a positive shift there.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u84	Instead of Grzezhev, Nikolainka Stanislav
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u85	A faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Sergey Volodymyrovich! I mean, it's a good thing that we're listening to the calculations of the coal miners, where people, of course, want to get the money, and the process is going technological, but I have this question. If we control you, will we, in general, control these private skyscrapers? So I came back from the district, in a month and a half and a half, prices went up on a kilowatt of electricity without warning, without anything, just what they want and do. The other one. They collect these costs, they don't upgrade any power, they don't change the wire, nothing but consumption. They took over the areas of law to strengthen the base, and all the energy has already returned to predators. They fly into apartments, rip off traffic jams, remove fillings, fines, and so forth. And the second question, I already told you, is the price of coal. What a disaster we had in Ukraine, that the price of coal today in the south, that is, in the villages of Hersonland I was, is 450 dollars. How can you buy two tons of coal for 100 dollars a winter? Let's do something, because it's just going to freeze people out. And in Chernigowish, he's the Rudkowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u86	Thank you. As far as the private sector is concerned, privatization was being done to reduce administrative intervention. So we have what Leonid Makarovich says. But today, the government and the National Regulatory Commission are severely controlling private skyscrapers' tariffs and implementing these private investment programs. I think this should be a separate consideration. I know that there are several laws in the Supreme Council, bills for the National Regulatory Commission. This issue needs to be resolved, then it will be easier to control Parliament. As far as fuel is concerned, we talked to you before today, and we have 2.2 times this year's supply of fuel, which has allowed us to reduce commercial losses in electricity networks by stealing or consuming electricity. Now we need to restore the work of district coal companies or businesses. Today the price of coal in coal companies is 2.5 times lower than that of a specific consumer in a village, for example. And today, I think we discussed it with you, I think we can do it next year.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u87	Sergey Matvienkov, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u88	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear Sergey Fedorovich, I have two questions for you. Question one. Over the years, we have seen this kind of paradoxical situation. On the one hand, we are constantly increasing coal subsidies in the budget. On the other hand, we are seeing a steady parallel increase in coal prices. With this increase in coal, it is said to stimulate price increases for industry as a whole and industry, and so on. I have a specific question for you. Where do you see the edge? How many subsidies do you need so far in order to stop this increase in prices? That's question number one. Second question. Explain the second paradox: every year we increase budget subsidies to the coal industry. Every year, we are decommissioning the most cost-effective, most unprofitable lava, including the most non-profitable mines, and yet we have, let's say, an unprofitable industry. How is this an effective withdrawal, and how can we make use of these funds? And where is this turning point when it comes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u89	I'm asking for slide number eight, if possible, on the screen. So in January-months, the average carbon cost without VAT was 175 dollars. And the price is 127 bucks. So the damage to the implementation of one ton of produce, you can see it on the graph, almost 48 bracelets. State support for one ton this year, 830 million, is about 10 dollars per tonne. That's the answer to that question. And this year we've reduced the cost to 153 dollars already, and the price has risen from 127 to 132, only five dollars, the honourable national MP. The average price of 132.7 bracelets without VAT, the average price of goods. Listen, with state support, 10 bucks. In the following year, the price will be completely balanced by further implementation of all these measures -- that's the first. We're giving up state support for our 2005 self-sustainment. And these are going to be geared towards technical resupply, the capital building of more efficient enterprises. Next year's last.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u90	Yes, Mikola Noshchenko, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, and of the Labour Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u91	160th constituency. Please pass the word to Dashutin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u92	Gregory Dashutin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u93	Sergei Fedorovich, I have two questions for you. Please respond. I know that the ministry has recently been very concerned with energy savings, and those reconstructions that have already taken place at the first power plants, and the addition, I know, you have a program, so I'd like you to briefly tell us what the ministry's savings programme is today in the fuel-energy coal complex at the thermal power plants? And the second question is briefly: today we had a question raised on the faction by Deputy One, we wanted to hear what would be the fate of Alexander's holding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u94	You have a coal-freeness reduction schedule starting in 2000, and the ministry has reached from 39 percent to 26 percent of the average coal-freeness. This is exactly what reduces the cost of conditional fuel at power stations. We have reduced the percentage, the conditional percentage of gas consumption, from 21 percent to 18 percent this year alone, by 3 percent, even though almost 6 percent of the country's electricity and consumption increased due to economic growth. In addition, for the first time in this year, we have broken the trend of growing commercial losses. And the overall economy over the course of 10 months was 800 million kilowatts of hours, introducing more new, modernized blocks. In December, we're launching a snake block number eight that will work without using gas. In the first quarter, it's code number four. The 13th block of Burstin TEZ is being reconstructed. Every year we plan to reconstruct two or three blocks, and this will also significantly reduce the cost of energy carriers. It's about Alexander's Coal. There are two approaches. First approach. Taking into account the bankruptcy of a large business, make a decision on its restructuring and complete closure. But this year, we're looking at additional funding and the introduction of different programs today, so at least 70 percent of the production capacity, the capacity to engage in a special program that will work to further stabilize the work of "Olexandria Coal."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u95	Gregory Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u96	Grigory Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Cherniewec region, Ukrainian People's Party, faction "Our Ukraine". Dear Mr. Minister! The draft budget for the following year, when it came to building the power grid of Ukraine, and a specific figure was set out, I suggested, coming out of the general balance, within this balance, that 400 million dollars should be allocated to the New Dniestroske GAES and the construction of wind power stations in the Chernobyl area, where the wind rose is favourable -- four million dollars. The Cabinet of Ministers said that it was inappropriate to single out these things and that it was better for him to see how to solve the problems of the New Dniester AES. Please explain this position. And the second question. So here I'm looking at who's the best of the energy-efficient companies that are counting on the energy market. Best Zitomyroblenergo, which is the worst for October of this year, is Donetskoblenergo. Please explain the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u97	As for the investment allowance, which is placed in the special state budget fund for the following year. It's 1 billion 780 million dollars. But that's less pressure than today we have 833 million dollars, but for two months. This investment bonus, if fully funded, will allow the next year to run two atomic blocks first. Ukraine may be the only state to build two powerful atomic blocks on its own, which will enter into force next year. In addition, alongside the construction of nuclear power plants, we must immediately build regulatory capacities. This is primarily the case with the Dniestrów Hydroaccumulative Power Plant. I think as soon as we release the atomic blocks, all the costs, no less stress, will go to Dniestrsky and. Gaes. As for wind energy, it's set, the specific percentage is 0.75 percent, you know, from every kilowatt hour. These costs are distributed by a special interdisciplinary working group that works under the auspices of Minprompolitics. I think the question of building in the Chernobyl wind power station is: first, the presence of wind potential there, if it is, and still -- our work on the implementation of this project. As far as the calculations are concerned. The worst of today are two areas: Donetsk and Lugansk. It has to do with the subject of today’s issue. These are depressing regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u98	Time's up. Have a seat, please. Andrew Petrovich, head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, was a ploy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u99	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished people's deputies, members of the Government. The impact of measures to improve the coal industry should be assessed on the basis of an objective analysis of its operating conditions, at least at the beginning of this year. Systemically, it is a cluster of major structural problems that require considerable time, effective management, an integrated approach to financial management. You are well aware of the start-up conditions in the industry, the problems of its loss, wages and regressive payments, the wear-out of the core funds, the crisis situation of coal payments. Therefore, the results of the work over the past period presented in the Government's submissions already provide an opportunity to talk about selected positive trends in the improved functioning of the coal industry. I will briefly highlight the main challenges that will consolidate stability and contribute to the effective work of coal-based enterprises. Calculate coal and electricity. That's the first one. In 9 months, the calculation of wholesale power companies was about 93 per cent. Product pay, generation over 94 per cent. The electricity level for final consumers in October 2003 was already more than 97 per cent. Coal pay is increasing and approaching 100 per cent. Overall, the indicators are quite significant. However, the dynamics of electricity payments provided by TEC and hence the calculations with coal enterprises had a significant monthly variance. Its lower limit was 66 per cent in January, with 6 out of 9 months less than 100 per cent. Conclusion first. It is necessary to ensure that the calculations between the energy market and the TEC are adequate with the level of consumer payments for the electricity released. Establish methods and algorithms for regulating the electricity market in accordance with market principles and ensure market transparency, equal participation and competitiveness. In order to implement these principles, a proportional payment of electricity marketed to the wholesale market was introduced on the proposal of our Committee and Mintopenergo in October of this year. The potential of these changes will be fully realized next year. This will significantly improve the financial situation of coal-based enterprises and thermal power plants. The second problem is the issue of energy balance. One of the provisions of the Government's programme of action is the resumption of work on fuel and energy forecasting and current balances. This also applies to the regularization of the coal balance. According to current results, we have not yet overcome the negative trends in imbalances that have been set in previous years. Therefore, confirmation of early measures to ensure compensatory supply of natural gas and increase imports of coal. The imbalance in the energy sector generates inefficient micro-energy consumption. At the end of November, electricity consumption is increasing by almost a third in the evening. It is evident that electric heating appliances are used to heat apartments. Conclusion two. Only the development of the projected and current fuel and energy balances will be able to overcome structural imbalances in the development of the fuel and energy complex on a regular basis, and the effective management of financial flows in the system, including capital resources. Coal industry and thermal electricity as priorities for the economic development of our country. Coal is a significant energy resource for Ukraine. About 50 per cent of electricity is produced by coal. Heat power is a strategic technology component in our State's electricity system. The coal industry produces life-saving resources for the coxochemical and metallurgical complexes of our economy. These are hundreds of thousands of jobs, local budgets, foreign income, a stable balance of payments, start-up conditions for foreign trade and foreign investment in our economy. Unfortunately, the following should be noted. The current coal production volume of about 80 million tons per year is the level of the 1950s. Wages in the coal industry have not changed significantly over the year and amount to, unfortunately, about 1.2 billion grivens. The credit debt of coal industry enterprises is more than 10 billion grevens. Conclusion third. The critical mass of coal sector transformation as a component of structural changes in the fuel and energy complex has not yet been fully achieved. While noting the positive results of the 2004 budget in support of the coal industry, addressing the social problems of the industry as a major challenge requiring an immediate solution to Mintopenergo, the following should be noted. First. This is the effective and targeted use of budgetary resources and the achievement of significant results from coal-based enterprises. Second. A clear definition of the role of the coal industry in the country's long-term fuel and energy development strategy and its energy security. Third. Development and practical implementation of targeted approach programmes in budget allocations for the purpose and support of coal-based enterprises based on clear criteria for assessing its delivery. Fourth. Improving price and tariff policies. Fifth. A comprehensive solution to the financial recovery problems of the coal industry, as part of the fuel and energy complex, to the practical challenges of restructuring. The Committee stands ready to work with the Government in the field of legislative initiatives on the above-mentioned areas. Thank you for your attention! Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u100	Mikola Vasilovich Kravchenko, deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. Dear colleagues, we agreed when we approved that there would be no questions. We're going to take this time to get in.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u101	The Communist faction. I represent the Donbass region. And I wanted to begin my speech as in the good old days with a feeling of deep satisfaction we listened to a clear, substantive speech by the Minister, in which nothing could be understood. And I want to say that with the deepest dissatisfaction I have listened to this report today and read the materials that are before us today. It is the purest water campaign; it is the incompetence of the Minister and his ministries to prepare themselves meaningfully for the report on this matter. So I'm going to focus on some of the most common mistakes that have been made today and the miscalculations that have been made today on restructuring the industry. The Minister is deceiving that there is no drop in production. Production dropped to 1.5 million tons. For information, experts believe that 1 billion grivens are needed to restore a million tons. The calculations show that we don't have enough coal in February. Why? Because the report here shows that we have 2 million, and we have to have 3.6. With the cold coming, we'll be sitting without light. I would like to focus on the terrible picture that today is the result of reform. First of all, if Ermilov, as minister, knew the region, knew that the mine and the settlement and the city were a living organism and could not be torn apart, he would never have gone to deprive the mine of its legal status. Thus, governance has been lost today. Today, social damage has been severe in urban areas. If we look today at the schemes that involve commercial entities in the restructuring, they are the following. Today, the Director-General, who is accumulating all funds, has a commercial structure that launders money at high prices for equipment delivered and overpriced coal purchased. And from here, my respectable colleague of Matvienkov, the answer to your question is, why do you buy 300 bracelets and they take 132 bracelets? And there's a double lift. And I have to tell you that this washout is going to end by the fact that eventually the mines are going to be privatized completely. Completely destroyed as the main means of production. The Minister here did not say that he had deprived the social sphere of funding. As a result of the reforms, he left cities unheated today. In the same "Silidovo" today, only two of the seven blacksmiths work. The kids aren't studying, the schools are closed, today's the real deal. At the same time, an association that is now re-energizing on old stocks. Today, no coal has been obtained in the cities of Djørjinsk, Krasnoarmeysk and other cities for 2002. Imagine what you can say to people at meetings when people are sitting in cold apartments today, about this reform? Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the Minister and above all to the fact that today the prestige of mining work as a result of those reforms has fallen. Today, the salary of the Donbass miners stands at 16th place, think! In 16 places. It's never been like this before. Today, 36 per cent of miners are retired. And if they leave tomorrow, we will finally destroy our human resources. Within five minutes, it is impossible to tell what the reform has done today. If the Minister is willing to challenge my statement today, I am prepared to present him in any Donbass region and to work with him on whether he is doing good or destroying the industry. Proposal: I have prepared a draft decree that the Minister should leave the post for reforms. I received these materials today, coming back yesterday, seeing what digital variations there are, I agreed with the fuel committee's proposal to consider this issue, to clarify the figures again and consider this issue in a month or so, so that we are not accused of being unbiased. But at the same time, I turn to the Cabinet of Ministers: distinguished members of the Government! Today we are experiencing a severe food crisis, but I warn you, if this minister does not withdraw from this post, the restructuring he has come up with will lead to a severe energy crisis, and as a result we will freeze the cities and this will become a serious social impact. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u102	Thank you for the report. Let's move on to the discussion. The names of the national MPs are listed on the panel for the discussion. Puzakov, a faction of Communists, prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u103	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. The quality of life of every Ukrainian reflects the so-called standard of living. Do many families in Ukraine have this subsistence minimum? With this life, our ministers are becoming more and more optimistic. And by listening to their reports, you come to the conclusion that the gap between fantasy and honest life is completely erased. It can be said that the Ukrainian energy system has the highest willingness in CIS countries to engage in synchronous work with the Single Energy System of Europe. Who is this statement intended for? And did the Ministry's sensation come to those who experience cold weather during the winter and, over the course of the year, many electrical power cuts, which result in deaths in hospitals at operating tables, not to mention the burning of electrical appliances and electrical equipment. Is that the quality you, Mr. Minister, are going to Europe? You don't know the balance of the national energy system. More than 60 per cent of thermal energy blocks are old-fashioned and are not actually renewable. They need to be rebuilt. Although today we're saved by atomic stations that are also on the verge. But that's not all. There are no manoeuvres in the national energy system, which means our dispatchers are unable to control peak loads. Hence, long-term and short-term energy failures and the remaining 50 Hz frequency unattainable for the Ukrainian energy system. It is well known that Ukrainian experts estimate that a minimum of $10 billion is needed to bring the energy system to a level acceptable to the civilized world. Well, where are those billions? They're not in the budget for some reason. With this attitude and at this rate of reproduction of the generating power, it is time to think. If one or two energy blocks were introduced annually in Soviet times, the restoration is now extended by only one year. And regions with its leader are running out of energy. That is, hope for improvement, can be boldly spoken and not anticipated. In general, our desires and opportunities differ like corner lights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u104	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Basil Nadrag will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u105	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's Electoral Block, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, what is happening today on the issue that we are considering? I am truly grateful to Kravchenko Mikoli Vasilovich for asking and initiating this question, and today I have been in pain. But I wanted to see if today its fruits would benefit some other political forces. And I would like to make clear even those political powers. I'd like to ask, does a good host change horses on a transport? Probably not. Hades were cast out without realizing it, without asking: What could he have done that might have been useful? And it's supposed to be Dubin's, and Boyko's, and the president's, too. This man will answer, only the minister, he will answer. Yes, the question is what will be his answer. Why? The discipline is getting worse, the unrulyness is getting bigger, Russia is nathe, the vice-premier's head is getting worse because he's telling the truth that we don't need a gas consortium, that it's all dibilism, that the Ukrainians aren't Africans, and we don't need to run it from Moscow, and we don't need Chubais to do it. And that's why they're filming the man. Today, cash collection is falling from 97 percent to 85 percent. If this continues to be the case, the situation will worsen. I have a lot of pretensions to what's been going on in the coal sector. I've been talking here for almost a year now about some of your reforms being wrong. What are you, interested in? Or do you, Mr. Carmazin, have any thoughts on this? Or does the Party of Protectors know how to stop thieves? Then I'll tell you from here, from this rostrum, if you don't have time for anything else. The orders you give from time to time: both in August, and the order you give in June and so on -- which are called "to adjust the amounts of the state budget" -- lobbied only one area at the Prime Minister's request -- that was the Donetsk region. And at the same time, you're destroying Lviv coal, you're taking down minus 1 million 048 thousand. You're taking Volinwog, you're destroying it. "Alexandrougilla." Next up, First Coal, 1 million 024 again. Mary Deep's shaft. You take it out of everyone and you adjust it as you please. Why are you doing this? I'll tell you why you're doing this. Because the money is then removed. For example, from the Peruvian masquerade, 10 million dollars were sent to Britain on the second day. Where the money goes through the carbon that you put in today's budget of 1.4 billion. This structure is closer to whom? The Prime Minister must be getting close to this structure. Keep going. What I'm saying is that the money you're investing and today you don't seem to have any more service in the mines than the mining unit. There is nothing to be saved from, so that everyone is healthy, not just money laundering. That's why I want to say that the minister needs to be corrected today, but not sought, Mr. Kravchenko, to the point of death, because it's even scarier in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u106	Yuri Anatolyovich, thank you. 46 seconds. Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag. Get ready for Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u107	Vassili Nadrag, People's Choice, Lugansk Region. I want to focus on this topic because, for the Lugansk region, the theme of coal miners and their calculation of energy is particularly relevant. At least because 45 per cent of Ukraine's energy coal is mined in the Luhansk region. What is the situation today? We have listened to the report and a number of issues remain. And the base of these is how an energy-generating coal company is calculated for its coals. Despite the repeated mandate of the President of Ukraine, the prime ministers to date, referring to the work of the Ministry, cannot be said to have found a solution to the issue of the timely and most extensive calculation of coal-fired power stations in Ukraine. For example, 7 million 290,000 tons of coal products have been shipped to Ukraine's power station for 10 months this year, amounting to 1 billion 775.8 million grivens. Generations have paid $1 billion 109 million, i.e. a shortfall of 66.8 million bracelets. Is that big money or not? To put it this way, 66.8 million unreachable bracelets are three times more than the increase in wages for the same Lugansk coal miners. It has grown by 20 million this year. Next moment. The critical situation is beginning to develop in November, despite the fact that we are talking to you about the first half of the year, we have to look at what we are doing. In November of this year, 799,000 tons of coal were shipped, worth 130 million grivens, and 98.8 million grivens were paid. That is, minus 31.4 million grevens, which is 25 per cent of the total supply. The calculation of the debt of energy to coal miners continues for 10 months to the well-functioning public enterprises. We were told that there were problems with the poor. Sverdlovskantracit, Rowenkiantracit in 10 months, it was owed 28 and 47.3 million grevens respectively. And the figures have been 244, 7 and 276.3 million bracelets since the formation of these GPs. What does this lead to? This all leads to the fact that, to date, Mintopenergo's experiments are starting to offer all sorts of things, but these experiments do not make sense. As a matter of fact. The overall debt, and in my view, is the main indicator, mainly due to poor coal payments, the total payroll of the Lugansk region miners as at 1 November, with an accrual of 531.6 million grivens, increased by 20 million since the beginning of the year, and 11.3 million grivens in November. So, I think that we have to make 100 percent pay, then we don't have to do any credit projects for wage-making, nothing else to do, and only normal coal calculations will give us the opportunity to think less about ownership, and really help miners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u108	Thank you. The word is given by the national deputy Rudzikowski. After him, Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u109	Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! You know, energy, there's a lot of money, where there's big money, there's a lot of politics. And the latest actions that have taken, as it were, in the energy field under the carpet release of Vice Prime Minister Hajduk have testified to this. This was not the reason that Hayduk claimed that the consortium was unworthy, that everyone knew about it, and most deputies supported this position, that it was just a group of oligarchs who privatized the President's ear and who had access to his bed in connection with his being bedridden, issued a decree based on Hayduk making a statement that contradicted the position of the President himself. And the president signed it. It is good that he did not sign the decree on the establishment of his credentials, but he was simply not moved by the decree. But it's different, it's about solving issues in Ukraine. How does this happen? Everything's going under the carpet. And I think if the Prime Minister who came to visit the President at 10 p.m. on Friday night didn't hear from the President that he signed an hour ago a decree on the release of his vice-premier, he should think about it, because this is a call for Victor Fedorovich. Viktor Fedorovich, the same thing happened with the Desert Tenk, with Kinach, was first ripped off by their ministers, vice-premiers, and then the government didn't listen to the Prime Minister. All the ministers were running to the President's Administration and the government, and the government's leadership was coming from the President's Administration. If you're not lobbying your vice-premier, pack your suitcases, pick a district, and fill in the presidential election. As for the release of the vice-premier, there were three elements. First of all, his principle of the position that the inability to create a gas transport consortium based on a Ukrainian pipe, once. The second reason is that Hermilov, along with Hajduk, started a coal reform and wanted to sell coal out of auction. What do not want is part of the Donetsk businessmen or thieves who want to fish in dark water and part of those who represent the Kyiv clans. The third question is the desire of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine to raise a $10 price per gas for commercial consumers, which Hayduk understood, will reduce the competitiveness of the Ukrainian economy and thus reduce the pace of economic growth.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u110	Thank you, Santa Claus. You're not totally on the subject. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u111	Thank you. And so I think that the government's agenda for reforming the coal sector needs to be seen as a data that works for the coal perspective. The release of the minister will lead to a puppet that will act in the interests of the clans who are struggling with coal reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u112	The word has been given to the national deputy of Konovaluk. Get Bronjikov ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u113	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! We really don't look at the problems of the fuel-energy complex for the first time anymore, and we find out for ourselves that this is really affecting the further development of both the economy of the state and the solution of many problems. Probably none of the sectors of the domestic economy have known in recent times the number of crises, such as the fuel-energy complex and the coal industry. The carbon deficit was felt by everyone in the country. And we can be absolutely sure that the state of affairs in the coal sector threatens the energy independence and security of the state. I'm not going to, let's say, warn you that the problems, they were defined as an outdated organizational system, a decline in the level of balancing industrial enterprises, a fall in the volume of capital construction, the investment unattractiveness of mines, and so on. The main objective of the restructuring is to achieve the effective work of the coal sector, which is characterized by the provision of the needs of the national economy, the economically cost-effective and environmentally sound work of enterprises and, thirdly, the socio-economic stability of coal regions. Scientists predict that without immediate action, coal production will continue to decrease and that coal production may fall by 30 percent in the coming years. The socio-economic and environmental problems that are being monitored will cost Ukraine not one tenth of a billion dollars. In December of last year, Mintopenergo launched an anti - crisis program, which consists of bringing virtually all of Ukraine’s mines together into several state enterprises with a completed production cycle. The reform is planned to take place in three stages. You and I understand very well that the situation in the coal industry, and last year, 165 mines were only 20 million. In the last 135 years, they have been bankrupt and have received a billion 700 million dollars. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Some eight million tons of coal, or about 800 million tons of coal, have been lost because of the reduction of the line. That's right. In summary, about a third of the total industrial output and a quarter of the gross domestic product of the country have been produced by PEC industry for nine months this year. And now there's increasing energy consumption, i.e. it's growing in the economy as a whole. And it's going to depend in a lot on how far we're going to be with you in the future to make this increase. I would like to address you one last time, Sir Sergey Fedorovich, to you, and yet urge us to consider and influence these problems more decisively and fundamentally to change the situation. You don't just have to estimate it in macroeconomic terms. We should count not only on governance structures, but also on securing repayments as receivables, on improving and effectively improving the use of budgetary resources, and we should be grateful to the people's deputies for the fact that perhaps next year we have actually increased budget funding. But this support, your personal support will be really proportional to the displacement and resolution of the problems that we expect in the coal sector in the fuel-energy complex as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u114	Thank you, Valery Ivanovich. The word has a national MP, Bronnikov, to prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u115	Dear President, distinguished members of the people, distinguished persons present! Indeed, energy is a great policy, because it concerns each and every one of us, about the vitality of each of us, and it is our job to make sure that there are no threats to this vitality, both human and economic. Indeed, 2003 was a year of significant improvement in energy bills and a significant improvement in the financial situation in the energy field. Energy was calculated as a whole this year, with mines of about 100 per cent. Shachathers owed only about 250 million bracelets to energy. Consumers in 2003 accounted for 90 per cent of total money. But the long-term underfunding of the industry could not have affected its state. It is still far from being compensated for in relation to a prosperous year 2003. General companies continue to face severe financial difficulties. Coal is very hard to pay, gas is undercalculated, and quality repair and reconstruction is scarce. Heavy loads have been going on for years. And the committee, along with Mintope, drafted a bill on debt repayment for energy carriers. And the Committee is addressing both the Supreme Council and all factions and all MPs, let's look at it in "forced mode" and take this load off our energy. There will then be no bankruptcy that is now taking place over the enterprise that is the largest thermal power plant, Dneproenergo. There will be no threat of a repeat of the shadow privatization of this generating company. Regrettably, the Committee has not received the Government's financial plans to balance the industry's income, on the part of the consumer, on the part of the budget and on the part of the spending on its own needs. We hope that such a financial plan, which takes into account the fact that we must bring our energy to the demands of the European Union, will be developed and discussed together, and we will know when we can lead energy to parallel work with Europe. In this regard, the Committee is fully prepared to work with the Government, with the Ministry of Fuel and Energy to address the root objectives of investment. And yet another issue that we believe should be developed and invited by the Government and for us to consider. Traditionally, industry was located in the area of generating plants. And the industry has been attached to the generating industries and the generating industries to the industry. Therefore, we simply have to create a favourable investment climate in the energy zone, such as the life-support base of each of us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u116	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have, I have announced that a national MP, Solomonine, will be ready for the presentation, and three other national deputies will be registered. If it's okay with you, let's give everyone a word and then we'll finish this discussion by the end of the day. Is there no objection? Then, please, the word has a national MP, Solomonine, to prepare for the Olympics.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u117	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction, Communist opposition. Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners. I have to look at the documents that were given to us from the point of view of social class analysis. And what do I see from that point of view? First of all, the government and the capitalist minister, who may not be a millionaire, but according to the tasks assigned to him, builds a capitalist economy, declares that the main tasks of the government are to form competitive energy markets. It continues to be announced how many state-owned enterprises have been created with an integrated technology chain for coal production, and that it is aimed at creating integrated farm complexes for coal mining, processing, and supply, etc. And that's what the crazy money is going to be about. But, at the same time, let us pay attention to you and: What is the cost of one ton of commodities now? Anthracite is 205, Snow Anthracite is 182 bracelets. And let's remember with you that in Soviet times and in the time of that cursed, planned economy, 1 cubic metre of wood cost a citizen of Ukraine 6 bucks and 1 ton of coal was 12 to 15 bucks. People are good, if today pensions and wages are the same as in Soviet times in rubles - and today in bracelets, how many times - dozens of times! - the increased cost of this coal industry putting our people on capitalist ground! And then the government documents say that somehow we need to reduce the size of the second coal market. And it's here that all of the thefts in the law have been sucked into the coal industry, and it's still increasing the cost of the coal that our miners produce upstairs. And then this coal has to be brought to the population. And if this coal is to be transported by rail, the Crucifixion, let's remember that the Crucifixion and the Minister of Transportation of Cyprus today, on account of the revenues that are in this field, even in space, is going to be engaged and some channels on the border of Tuzla Kosa and the Russian dam are going to be built. It is here that the cost of transportation has been increased by 5 to 7 times, and again it will be the man who needs it. And then I have this question. If we are investing money in the coal industry in order to be adopted after it is healed, and this is the goal of the government, we should not view the money invested as at least an interestless loan for those who will absorb the coal industry and be liable to return to our disadvantaged people. Conclusion. None of this reforming to the ordinary citizen of Ukraine is shining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u118	Please give the floor to the national deputy of the Olinick. Get ready for Astrov Shumilov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u119	Olinik Petr Mihajlovich, Sokalsky 125 constituency, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues! We all know today that the situation before the winter season in the fuel-energy complex is getting worse. Unfortunately, however, this depends not only on the ministry, but on the political situation that is now in the state, where the interests of the political State are aimed exclusively at raising money for future presidential elections. The faction "Our Ukraine" today has very serious and specific proposals. Take a look at the budget and add 4 billion of them, 1 billion of them add funds to the coal sector, as provided by the government of Yushchenka with the coal program Ukraine and from a billion dollars to raise the minimum wage from 205 to 237 dollars. [[This is a disgraceful decision that was made in the Supreme Council.]] It is very important to make effective use of these funds. Given that the coal sector received 3 billion last year, and now 4.2 billion now, and considering that there are 1.2 billion debt to coal miners and 0.3 billion debt to regression, Parliament has to make a very hard and very right decision. This year, we have the opportunity to pay off the debts of coal miners and regressive repayments. This is the position of our Ukraine, we want to solve all debts on the wages of miners. Next. There can be no structural remodeling of the shaft when. coal regions when non-functioning mines perform. I mean, sanatoriums, kindergartens. So the position of "Our Ukraine" is to allocate funds to local self-government authorities and to completely transfer the entire community and social sphere to local self-government authorities, in order to allocate these funds so that we don't leave the situation alone. Our cities and mining villages. Next. We can carry out technical re-arms, but unfortunately, budgetary years show that these costs are very serious because there are no competitive bases. So the position of the Yushchenka block "Our Ukraine" is as follows. On competitive grounds, allocate interest on loans and thus allocate them. So 0.5 billion bracelets, we're going to be able to get 2.5 billion dollars of interest-free bank funds and make a technological breakthrough in the coal sector. And the next. We have to decide and give coal investment preferences, because when a state can't help coal miners today, we have to create conditions for them to take on some kind of capital. And another situation. Today, the coal industry is a public sector, and the obelergo is now a private or stockholder society. We need to monitor and monitor the capitals of the skynergo so that they don't go out into the free economic zones of offshore because of the well-known patterns of one or the other political and economic groupings, and these costs go to the miners. In such circumstances, I believe that the ministry, when it comes to political support from Parliament, will handle the tasks assigned, and we will be able not only to winter but also to increase the amount of carbon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u120	Astrov-Shumilov. Prepared for Paul’s day. [[13:58:40]] (Signed) Astrow-Shumilov H.K. Dear colleagues! From the figures you heard in the Minister's report, it can be concluded that the coal industry had stabilized. I do not mean to say that everything is bad, there are some positive developments, but this is soon the result of the overall recovery of all sectors of the population, as has been said, in our country. With regard to the coal industry, the main indicator is the production of red coal, with a decrease of 3.1 million tonnes in ten months. At the same time, the goods from the Minister's words almost exceeded the past period. As can be done when coal quality deteriorates, if the levels of a number of coals are increased and reduced, this is a nonsensence. This is all that needs to be presented to the Ministry's leaders for the vigil they do. The wages of miners, as has already been noted here, are at an unacceptable high level and above 15 seats have not been raised recently. The salary is calculated from the tariff rate of 118 bracelets. In enterprises that do not pay their wages, the amount of coal produced is paid from enterprises that are sailing under the direction and under the press of the Minister. With regard to the calculation of energy for the coal shipped. The report contains a figure of 99.5 per cent. At the same time, some mines and public enterprises have paid up to 190 per cent. Such two state-owned enterprises, Sverdlov-Anthracite and Rowenki-Anthracite, which obtain more and supply more than 30 per cent of energy to energy, paid 90 per cent. Dear Minister, how can I, as a deputy, tell the forty-thousandth MP that you took money from the miners, with difficulty, and then with blood earned? With regard to the wholesale energy market, in principle, the idea is not bad. But it's the same thing that's being taken away, given to others. What is the average price? The price is in individual enterprises up to 1000 bracelets, there are 100 bracelets. The average is also the seizure of money from others without the permission of the labour community and the transfer of it to others. That's what the Minister's policy is all about. Not to develop the industry, but to remove the social tensions of enterprises that are in crisis economic, technical and global conditions from enterprises that still have a positive economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u121	Gennady Costinovich, finish. (Signed) Astrow-Shumilov H.K. One minute, reform and social measures to get them out of the crisis. And what is now being done and proposed to Mintopenergo has already been done, we know that. And the creation of 2003-2004, I am speaking as a specialist who has worked for almost 50 years in the coal sector, will lead to the total collapse of the coal sector in Ukraine. And coal for our States and not only our own energy carrier, but also our own energy and economic independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u122	Thank you. The word has the national MP of Pavlovsky. He's behind him, Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u123	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear fellow national MPs, distinguished members of the government! The rest of the press! I'm asking you all to think about it and start thinking. Although the President's letter to the 2006 Supreme Council refers to government, it was written, "The executive body does not need to think, but needs to be carried out." What do you want to do? That's how we got used to it. So I'd like to draw attention to a few things: first, energy-intensive Ukraine can fully provide itself, because coal in Ukraine will last 300 years, but not one of the explored new mine reserves will be built, 35 of which we have sources. There's no new mine. And what's happening today is a reconstruction. Sergey Fedorovich, don't listen to him, listen to me! Well, it's not doing it right. Ukrainian mine degassing technologies have been introduced in the United States, Britain, and Ukraine. In the United States, 100 million United States dollars for production A ton of coal is lost by one miner, and we can't count it. And that's why money should not be thrown into rescue services, but it should be thrown into technical power supplies, not mine degassing, it's safe. On the other hand, I see the former director of the nuclear station sitting in front of me, the main figure on the energy market should be the generating companies, all the other auxiliary companies! What do we have today? We have a paradox. We have a middleman today! You know who the middleman is in charge of the Donetsk region and so forth, he determines. Not the one who makes it. The one who produces is naked and bossy, and the one who redistributes it affects the government, today and in the government of his people, he puts it in the President's Office, that is, we have a country of paradoxes. But Sergey Fedorovich has one situation, because you can't think about it anymore, you can't stand up for national interests. The same Geiduk once or twice made the right decisions with the same Brods, with the oil gassy ones. So now he's told, "Good-bye, you're wrong," because the President is ours, by the way, and I've been studying energy literature, and our president is lobbying Russian firms, not Ukrainian firms. What kind of State should that be?Oh, my God! I can tell you what kind of firm they're lobbying. So, reverends. And yet, Sergey Fedorovich, you've all been speaking today, nowhere is it about science and technology, about innovation, about the use of technologies that are beyond. And finally, there was Julia Timoshenko's normal program, she put order on the energy market, it was up to 100 percent of the payment. There was no debt. Today again 16 billion, there are no payments, again offshore zones, once again the archer figure in this market, it's helpful, you can even do without it. So, ladies and gentlemen, we need to be comprehensive, and we hope that those members of the government that will defend national interests can stay in the new government, with the new president. Those who do not stand up may find a place in offshore areas. So today, in order to solve the problem, you have to get out of simple things -- innovation, national interests, and use your natural resources to the full. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u124	Please, Hinsburg microphone, out of place.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u125	Deputies, honourable voters! Hinzburg, 161 Conotapian constituency Timoshenko was mentioned, and I'm going to mention that in Soviet times and the questions that we're looking at right now would be quite funny to listen to, it can't be, it's kind of fantastic. Again, I know that there will be no such thing as it used to be. Two or three years and we're going to get in the way and we're going to laugh that we talked so much and we couldn't solve anything, we thought that was such an unresolved question, and it's really solved. I've just found one determination and I'm reading, the representatives of our Ukraine are today offering such a problem in Georgia that they need 4 million euros for elections, and the Netherlands has given 1 million euros, so we need to give them a million dollars from our budget to hold elections in Georgia. I don't think I have 300 veteran families in Conotope today without solid fuel. The price of scraped gas rose by two bracelets, and the price of electricity rose. Today, coal factories that are part of the coal industry, such as the Red Metalist, or I have an Automatglerduprom factory, have been in debt on wages for several years now, and no one knows when they'll return. So, if we realize today that we have money from where to turn it over so we don't put it into elections in Georgia, let's do something to help our veterans that we've discussed with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u126	Thank you. Please, the replica is a Krachenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u127	Thank you. Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Well, first of all, as a comment. Adam Ivanovich, well, it's unprecedented when in a government bed, when a serious issue is being considered, the tobacco company, as the vice-premier, is hosting brothers, kissing them there. The Minister, whose report we are hearing today, who, because of his incompetence, cannot hold a ministerial office because he is simply an incompetent person, and I am proving it on his service list. The maximum position he held did not allow him to serve as Minister. And he's sitting here today instead of listening to what he's saying, taking and kissing his brothers, chewing gum and not participating in Parliament's work. This is the deepest humiliation of the Supreme Council. Now, basically. It was said here that if Ermilov was removed, if I insisted that Parliament vote, there was a lack of complacency. So I want to tell you that it's better to be unscrupulous or deliberately destroying the industry because of incompetence. So I say that I will insist that I accept the fuel committee's request not to put the draft to the vote today. But in the process of preparation, I will insist that you be released from this position, asking the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-09-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I'm paying attention to the profile committee that we're having Tuesday. In line with the changes to the Rules, we decided that Tuesday we were not only discussing matters but also making decisions. So we had to finish today's discussion by making a decision. Unfortunately, the profile committee didn't make the draft decision, so then I have a request. So then I'm going to have to ask them to prepare this draft decision and submit it as soon as possible. Mikola Vasilovich, I'm addressing you. You are well aware that under the Constitution Parliament has no right to release or appoint ministers. So let's act within the Constitution and make our proposals. A break of 16 hours is announced. This morning’s session is closed.
