ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71627	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In front of you is the Proposal for a Law on protection at work one of the three laws that are extremely important for regulation of the labour market itself. In addition to the Labour Act and the Law on Representativety of the Labour Protection Act is one of the most important laws concerning all those working in the Republic of Croatia. And when we talk about his importance to me, it's the law first in importance of these three laws. The reason is that the Labour Protection Act concerns every worker, as regards protection at his workplace, concerns protection that should prevent the development of professional diseases, protection that should prevent deaths at work, injuries at work. On the other hand, this Law is also a financial burden on the employer because all the safeguards taken under this Law are costing. And therefore, in the creation of this Law, together with trade unions and employers, special attention has been paid to the fact that we need to ensure maximum protection in those jobs where the health threat of workers is extremely high and that there is no and there must be no discounts. While for those jobs where this threat is less or less, for these jobs there are some different conditions for protection at work to be prescribed. The current Labour Protection Act was adopted on 28 June 1996 and has been in force since 1 January 1997, so the law which is one of the longer-term laws in the Republic of Croatia has so far experienced 7 amendments and additions so that it is very difficult to monitor the amendments and the integrated text of the law itself. I note that with this law it's been prescribed somewhere around 50 regulations about certain parts of the law. One of those regulations is from a long way back in '52. A year. So it's obvious to everyone that what was in '52. It's obviously not what it is this year. This Law, therefore, which now applies its basic objective as well as any Act on the Protection of Labour, is the prevention of deaths, prevention of occupational injuries, and that is what is important. And when we discuss this law, I hope that we will discuss what this law needs to be done and what it needs to be done in the future. According to the data we have, therefore, how many injuries we have at work, professional illnesses and the number of workers killed on the job necessarily show that further efforts need to be made to improve the work protection system. And the solutions that are proposed by this new law are just going in that direction. Not a lot of data that's been going on in the past 10 years in the field of work injuries and the Labour Protection Act itself. In the period 1997 to 2012 we recorded 333 thousand 492 injuries at work. Since '97. By 2013 we diagnosed 2431 diseases. And what's most tragic was that we had 767 dead workers at work or in connection with work. And these are the facts to go with, and that's the data that we're going to compare the effectiveness of this law when it comes into effect. Except for these facts, one more thing that matters, and that's the number of days lost. From 1997 to 2012, 13 million 138 thousand 908 working days were lost due to illnesses caused by injuries to work and occupational diseases. I must mention here that when we talk about work-related injuries and work-related diseases, that here we have a problem that is related only to the reporting of work-related injuries and it is clear to all that part of the work-related injuries, and that they are recorded in the health system are not originally reported as work-related injuries and obviously in this area that we need to take some steps. One of the basic levers that goes to prevent work injuries and sanction the violations of the law itself is the labour inspectorate. As you know, the Labour Inspectorate was added to the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, and then we said that their work would be much, much better, that it would be more efficient, that it would be different and therefore, in the Labour Inspectorate itself, things are already being changed. As you have seen with the proposal of these laws, in the part related to sanctions, we have introduced red, yellow and green charts, which means that the inspectors of the work other than the part related to the punishment itself, so with repression, will play a very important role in the prevention and that it will be possible for the employer to call on the inspector for protection at work in the preventive review and, based on this preventive review, to remove possible ambiguity, i.e. possible problems related to the application of the law. Also, for certain violations of this law, we have introduced a yellow card, which means that the employer will have a period of 8 days to correct this negativity and that if he does not do so only then will be punished, which is particularly important for small and medium-sized employers, who are clear that as far as the work protection experts themselves are concerned and people who are concerned with protection at work, their teamwork and knowledge may be somewhat less than with large systems where it is established and special service protection at work. The labour inspectorate has started to work in the way that it should be done. It is based on a territorial principle and their part-time work which was in principle local change and becomes territorial. This means that protection inspectors will leave Zagreb for Zagreb, they will leave Osijek for Split, all with the goal of making the efficiency of the labour protection inspectors much different than it has been so far. During 2013, the Labour and Labour Protection Inspector carried out 9387 surveillance with employers at the workplaces, which was 1568 work-related surveillance, 83 surveillance for occupational diseases, 2318 construction sites, forestry workshops and shipbuilding workshops. I note that these are the workshops where the most frequent injuries are at work and where we most often have and unfortunately died workers. 723 submission and refusal supervision of workers because no protection measures have been provided at work, 2660 controls in other risk activities and 2035 controls in less risky activities. In addition, 2466 controls were carried out to control the implementation of the solution. 1825 solutions have been adopted to remove illegality, 1589 bans on labour use, bans on dangerous procedures and orders to vacate workers from jobs for which they do not meet the prescribed conditions. Three implementation solutions have been made following control controls and 4 labour resources have been sealed. I note that in 2012, it was a case in three companies. Nine fines were charged to workers and directly to the superiors responsible for the execution of the offence. In 2012, 20 were charged. 2182 accused proposals have been tabled for reasonable suspicion of perpetrators. So these are the safety inspector's reports at work. What we want to do is to improve this system, that what is absolutely safe with the new law and with the very new way of working protection inspectors we want to reduce the number of occupational diseases, we want to reduce the number of deaths. It is clear that, unfortunately, we cannot completely prevent these unwanted outcomes because there are simple branches where, despite all the protection measures at work, such accidents can happen, but certainly this figure of over 700 deaths should be reduced and therefore, for this Labour Protection Act is extremely important because it protects the lives of workers. This system therefore establishes a system for implementing the legal acquis of the European Union in national legislation, which fully assumes European standards in this area. So all the directives adopted in the European Union have been translated into this law. The law also complements the provisions fully transposed by directives concerning the introduction of measures to promote the safety and health of workers at work, complement measures to promote improvements and safety and health at work, pregnant workers, and workers who have recently given birth or breast-feeding as well as the protection of young people. The law prescribes legal rules of protection at work and general principles of prevention, introduces consistency of professional terminology in this area, establishes the basics of national prevention policies, and establishes institutions at all levels and regulates their mutual cooperation in preventing injury to work and occupational diseases. Respecting that labour protection is an integral part of all labour, manufacturing and management processes of this law and its implementing regulations, a high quality legislative framework will be established which will result in better safety and protection of workers' health, safer production processes, better cooperation of all stakeholders in labour protection, and thus a resulting reduction of all costs incurred due to injuries to work. In addition, effective application and control of rules in this area will also contribute to reducing the number of implementing rules and modernising them, as the applicable Labour Protection Act has been implemented through the way I have already said 50 regulations, implementing rules. What we have done with this law is to reduce these 50 implementing rules to about 20 regulations, and we are already working in that area. It is our goal that, after the adoption of this law, the law itself be followed by all those important rules. One of the most important regulations is the rules on risk assessment which is equally important and as the text of the law itself and this is the case, so that at the same time and all those rules that are important for the implementation of this Act will be adopted. Also, a database is being established, so-called Data Collector that will combine all data from the field of protection at work both persons performing work protection tasks and prescribed information on the employer. Namely, the goal of this Data Collector is to easily identify jobs and employers by electronic means, where there are more frequent injuries to work with the aim of counter-functioning, so that it does not act repressively immediately, but to detect problems where they are created, so both in companies and in jobs and then to act preventively before the adverse consequences occur. Also, this base will shorten both time and increase the efficiency of inspection surveillance, as so far inspectors have often gone randomly to individual companies where they thought more injuries to work could be seen than would be average in similar companies. The quality shift in the normative part of the law is also the introduction of some 30 important concepts which define and explain thirty important concepts of which are particularly important definition of accidents at work in a preventive sense, persons at work and place of work because the persons at work are not just those who work, but all those who come to the workplace starting with the trainees, and all those who come to the company in other jobs. We also define the place of work more clearly, and when we talk about labour injuries, we believe that this will lead to a easier and simpler understanding of the law and its implementing rules. This Law also prescribes the obligation of the employer to carry out stress prevention at work or in relation to work. So here for the first time we recognize what's going on in the modern world. What this Law did not recognize, therefore, was less pronounced then, or less recognized. The frequency itself was probably the same or slightly smaller. We want each employer to have its own stress prevention measures at the workplace and that will also be prescribed by a special regulation. Clearly, when we talk about stress and mobbing that this law cannot regulate the whole problem and for the whole regulation of this problem, it is also necessary to adopt a Mobbing Act with this law. So one law that would sanction both sides, so those cases when mobbing happens, and on the other hand, should prevent the abuse of that institute for some other purpose. We did not prescribe this Law, so when we talk about stress and mobbing, what should be solved by the Mobbing Act, but by law we have prescribed prevention and we want this law to work in the same way, and that means that the employer must, in his own measures prescribed by the Labour Protection Act, also have measures to prevent stress and mobbing. The employer is obliged to carry out stress prevention at work and work caused by factors such as work, work organisation, working environment and poor communication, and similar to by taking concrete measures and by including and cooperating all participants in the work process, thus increasing the working performance of workers and improving their health status. The proposed law prescribes the establishment of a Labour Protection Institute, which will be within the framework of the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour and Pension System and will take over a segment of safety at work from the Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work, which was founded with the aim of uniting both segments of work protection or safety and health protection. The Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work mainly focused on health aspects, which was not the case with the very important work of implementing technical and technological protection measures. Therefore, the Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work remains and works in its work in the health system while the Institute for Labour Protection should deal with the part that is related to the implementation of technical and technological measures. One of the measures is the licensing of safety experts at work, they should have a five-year licence and should be renewed through continuous education and all other ways of education with the aim of equating the very education of safety experts at work to monitor their work and on the other hand, this institution would also be a centre where all data relating to protection of work should be collected and should be controlled by law enforcement. I note that the establishment of this law requires neither an increase in the number of people nor as far as the financial expenditure itself is concerned will lead to an increase in costs because it is already part of the system. The job of the Institute will be, among other things, to assist employers in particular small and medium-sized people who are burdened with a large number of injuries often with serious or fatal consequences and the institution as an implementing and advisory body will at any time be able to provide the necessary professional assistance in implementing measures to protect the work and prevention and accidents of injuries and occupational diseases, depending on the risks to which workers are exposed. I must point out that this law is doing another big thing and that's to return medicine to the place where she's been for years. We have more than 50 years of tradition of good practice because medical work must be where the work process is and not in the infirmary. What we regret is that the Minister of Health Mr. Hebrang has done nothing to stop the medicine and that we have therefore come to the situation that we have very few experts in medicine work, means the doctor of medical work and that it is very largely under-capacitated, under the capacitation of this work and the purpose of this law is to bring the medical system back to work where it is the place for us to continue the education of a doctor of medical medicine to increase their number because it is the only way that, as far as health and health protection at work is concerned, it is crucial for the medical work to be at a high level. The law will regulate things, but what is most important by law is that we implement the law, that we all participate in its implementation, we believe that this law has relieved some of the employers of unnecessary measures, so unnecessary means of prevention for their jobs while the other parties are very firm for those jobs where the threat is extremely large very strongly prescribed by the very necessary protection measures at work. This is a very important law for me, most important of all of these three laws, so I hope that the discussion will also kill towards how to further improve the law itself with the aim of allowing protection at work in Croatia to remain and remain at that high level as it has been for the past 50 years and from this data and everything we have learned over the past 10 years, however, the level itself has decreased. We want this law to bring back everything that was good, and it was good on the Croatian labour market, and this law hopes that we will succeed. What we have set before us is a reduction of 10% of work injuries, a reduction in the improvement, a reduction in the frequency of professional health damage due to the fact that certain changes have occurred at work and a clear reduction in the number of deaths due to work or protection at work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71628	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. We have a replica of the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71629	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, another revolutionary law, however, no new funds are needed in the assessment of resources. And it's really not clear to me that something revolutionary can be achieved and that the funds are already provided, so there's nothing to do but create a new organisational form. However, this law definitely offers another new director, offers another new business car, offers another new cell phone, offers another new business space and offers a number of other costs the state budget is unfortunately unable to bear at the moment. Because if what you said is true, there is everything at the existing Health and Safety Institute, then it should be reorganized in a different way and set it up. But you just set it up like it is and it's very interesting to have your mourning for some time. Unfortunately, however, Croatia today does not have large economic giants who had their own medicine as part of them. Medical work has gone on some shift that other medical services have gone to, unfortunately regarding this primary health care. But this all you said simply can't happen without a new cost to the state and by the work of employers. Also, what I'm going to agree with, I'll probably agree with all the MPs is that because of everything that's going on today in the workplace needs to be protected by the workers. We should also protect them from these new injuries that may leave far more severe consequences than those physical injuries that are seen, but I repeat, we can't do it all together like you did without providing new means because I repeat, we're not constantly perpetum mobile, and if it could work so far, and now it can't, then obviously someone's been misplanning funds lately, and now Minister Linic won't have any problems, at least somewhere...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71630	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71631	So, I'm saying thesis replacements, so as you know, we're all cutting out our salaries to contribute to protection at work, so these funds are meant for both prevention and treatment of injuries resulting from work protection, so this doesn't require any new contributions or new funds. As for the people and the people who have worked and now, they are in the system, therefore what will only be organised differently because we consider it important to have an implementing body that will enforce the law itself. I'm glad you admitted that it was a mistake to put an end to medical work because it's one of Europe's fluids. So Europe is always insisting today that medicine work survives and, on the other hand, when we talk about working medicine it is not in that way, obviously that you too have those memories of large giants where they were infirmarys within the factories themselves, clearly that it is no longer so, but on the other hand, in modern times it is clear that the medics are working, and they do not have to be in the factory itself, therefore, or in the company itself, but that they must be where they work and that they must go to work, it should be so. So it's the modern fluid that other European countries have, and what we're doing right now, we're simply bringing the wheel back because it's obvious that we took off the wheels and the car was standing in the same place, the medical work didn't develop, we've lost a lot of experts, and it's going to take a lot of time to re-educate them. Thank you for admitting that it was a mistake to stop the medical work.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71632	Thank you. Thank you very much. Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71633	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I would like at the beginning of this debate to remove the misunderstanding. You yourself have said, and this is also explained on page 3 that it is a new law, a whole new law, which corrects and eliminates some other shortcomings, various shortcomings. However, page 4 of the reasoning states, although it is not a whole new text of the Labour Protection Act, but also in the full text of the law, which has been applied for 17 years, it should be stressed that some provisions reduce the rigidity and complexity of certain procedures, etc. So whether it's a new text of the law or it's just an old and valid text of the law that, as you yourself said, has 50 sublegal acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71634	Replica response, respected Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71635	Well, it's clear from the existing law that some things are being taken over because they're simply in the same way that in the current law they're obsolete and ineligible, so they're modernizing those things that were related to the law itself, and some new things are being introduced, as I've already mentioned, the prevention of stress and mobbing, so some new things are being introduced. But on the other hand, we also want to relieve employers' obligations in those workplaces where the risk of developing a special disease or death outcome is very small and we allow these changes, so these things that must be done for the prevention and implementation of measures to protect them from working so that they are much simpler for the employer more financially.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71636	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71637	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister. You talked about the specificities of the Labour Protection Act, which is for every commendation, but the best protection at work is a good overall attitude towards workers, to all those who live from their work. But whoever protects the workers on current work because everyone looks also at the law being prepared, which should have been the third in a package of labour laws, they are all on temporary work, they will wear what this message of "The Pants on the Stick" says, because today is the World Day of Social Justice that has a lot to do with what we're saying today. The protection of work is also related to the consequences of labour, so there, we will have PTSDs caused by, the PTSD disease caused by unhappiness, the PTSD caused by the uncertainty of work, the lack of property, I don't think in that context the law is speaking, but we should essentially discuss it today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71638	Replica response, respected Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71639	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, if you have read the law, and I believe it is, protection at work applies to everything, therefore even broader than the Labour Act itself, so I have pointed out on several occasions that this law is the most important of these three laws, so protection at work, work and representativeness, because it applies to everything, therefore and beyond what the Labour Act says and when we talk about these new diseases related to work, and this new disease recognises both this law and employers, and imposes on them to have prevention measures, to recognise the problems at work that can lead to the development of these modern diseases that you have been talking about, so stress, PTSD and all other problems that are related to new technologies and new ways of working.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71640	Thank you very much. Are the representatives of the working bodies? Yeah. The Honorable Representative, Silvano Hrelja, is the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71641	For work, pension system and social partnership.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71642	Thank you very much. You've made your own announcement, thank you for your help.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71643	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. The Committee on Labour, Pension System and the Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament at the 39th Thematic Session held on 13 February 2014 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Protection at the Work of P.Z. No. 607, which has been delivered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 23 January 2014. That act was discussed by the Committee in accordance with Article 83. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. They submitted written comments to the Committee on that act to the Office of the Ombudsman for Children, the Association of Students of the Higher School of Security Alumni VHS, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and representatives of prominent safety experts at work. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that the proposed law is aimed at reducing the number of injuries to work and occupational diseases, as well as improving the safety and protection of workers' health, as well as preventing injuries to the work of professional diseases and other diseases related to work. In order to monitor the status of protection at work, a work protection office shall be established and the preventive role of inspection supervision shall be strengthened. Opinions, objections and proposals are presented in the debate as follows. In the assessment of the situation of the proposed law, it would be necessary to supplement the actual data on the number and type of injuries to work and costs, since this law is the most expensive part of labour law. The participants agree that the Labour Protection Act as well as the Labour Act is of paramount importance for workers and the economy. Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 298, 30.11.2013, p. 1). mobbing in the workplace. Article 56 is necessary to provide for sanctions for non-compliance with the prescribed obligation to provide first aid. Article 58(3), which prescribes an absolute ban on alcohol, is necessary to comply with the Road Safety Act, Article 63(2) of the regulation of the obligation of a systematic review, and not as proposed by the Health Review, Article 71 of the selection of labourers' commissioners has caused the biggest dispute between the social partners. The trade unions consider it necessary, and in order to ensure the preservation of acquired rights where workers have not chosen a protection commissioner to appoint union commissioners at work, and if more trade unions operate, trade unions fail to reach an agreement on labour protection commissioners in an appropriate manner to apply the provisions of the Labour Act for the Workers' Council. Article 73 proposes the introduction of an obligation on the employer of the appointment of a surveillance engineer at work which is part of the supervisory service team. These are construction sites. After the debate was held, the committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusions, by a majority vote 7 for, 1 abstention, the P.Z. Proposal for a Protection Act is adopted. No. 607. All comments, the proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when drawing up the final draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71644	Thank you, too. It was the chairman of the Labour Committee of the Croatian Parliament. Are the representatives of other bodies working? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the SDP's Club of Representatives and the respected representative of Gordana Sobol. Here's your esteemed co-worker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71645	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. If today we have before us a proposal for a Law on Protection at Work, here is a colleague Kosor who has asked a question in her replica, it is a new bill but not something that we have not had in Croatia so far to be unknown but is a new text of the law, a law that applies as it has already been said for 17 years in Croatia. But with this text of the law for several reasons, it has been tried and tried, we believe, that this will be successful, so on the one hand, to reduce the complexity of certain procedures for making documentation, and that then part of the costs can also be invested in general and specific measures to preserve the safety and health of workers. Every man has the right to a safe workplace and a healthy environment that will enable him to live a normal social and economic productive life. In our explanation, we could read that the basic objective of the law is to reduce the number of injuries at work, reduce the number of occupational diseases, improve the way in which data are introduced in relation to protection at work, and ensure that data deliver all inspections and other bodies that monitor working conditions in certain activities in one place. However, those who have been here for longer may know that we have had several amendments and additions to the Labour Protection Act. This always implies certain difficulties not only in understanding but also in applying, and we think it is good for us at the SDP club to go with the new text of the Labour Protection Act. Furthermore, the law we are discussing today in the first reading is fully in line with all EU rules in this area and with the practice of the EU Court of Justice. Some of the many years of objections that have been made under the current law have been well focused on missing provisions on measures to protect workers from psychosocial risks and psychophysiological efforts at work such as stress, harassment, verbal and other attacks on workers, monotones of jobs, normised for similar purposes. In this House, we have discussed several times over the years what really needs to be a protection at work, which goes into it and somehow it seems to me that it took us a long time to get out of that thought that the protection of the work of the rubber boots is not known, the protective suit, the helmet on the head, gloves and the like, and the development of new branches, etc., the protection of the work has become much wider and the idea of what means a safe job. In this regard, we welcome the SDP club Article 51 of this Act which has been talking about stress at work or in relation to work and we welcome the minister's announcement because it was the intensity of the SDP's counseling club back now for about 7 or 8 years, so that access is being made to create a special law that will deal with the problem of mobbing or psychological abuse at work. It's a matter that we had one thematic session on last year, a discussion on the Committee on Labour and Pensions. And it has also been shown in the opinion of the associations dealing with this area that a new law is needed. And here we have recently had opportunities to hear at the very thematic session of the Committee on Labour also experts who also believe that this matter must be resolved in a special law, not in the Labour Protection Act as well as not through the Labour Act in which and in one part of it is cared about, which is the article that speaks of dignity, the right to decent work, or work. So in this sense we welcome and hope that this law will come as soon as possible. Because it is necessary to say a few years back of the Croatian Association, supported by part and people from the profession, politics and so on. They were, in fact, predicated in this region when it came to learning and discussing the problem of psychological abuse at work. Unfortunately today, we are in a situation where all the countries in our environment have passed special laws based on that bill that emerged from the association and which the SDP Club was presented here in the Parliament seven or eight years ago. But we welcome this provision and hope to get this other law as soon as possible. The new law also provides for stronger supervision of the expertise and legality of the work of persons authorised to work with a licence that should be renewed every few years as well as the use of a system given collector to collect, process, interpret all data related to injuries at work. In this regard, we would like to ask the Government, therefore, to review once more the remarks that have arrived regarding Article 22. But also where certain employers' obligations were discussed. However, in that infringing part, such obligations should not be done to anyone. Therefore, we would suggest that, in this sense, once again until the second reading, the infringement part related to Article 22 but also to Articles 42 and 44 should be considered to provide for sanctions for failure to comply with the obligation, for example, between other periodic testing of machines and the like. So, it's all about employers' obligations but they're not in that breaking part. When we talk about world-wide labour injury figures, it is then estimated globally by data, World Health Organization estimates and trade union organisations to kill around 2 million workers each year, with 260 million injured at work and a huge number of professional diseases. In Croatia, the minister has already said a number of data I will only have some that I think are important to repeat. In Croatia in 2012 a total of 9,000 417 work protection supervisions were carried out in the field of work protection plus 2505 controls for the control of the implementation of previous solutions. There were 1096 of them 242 women and 854 men and 33 people killed in the workplace or during the work. The trend in Croatia is that the number of people seriously injured in the work in a certain slight decline but mortality remained at about the same level from year to year. The main objective for which work protection is carried out and its measures are efforts to avoid possible accidents, accidents at work, or any unwanted and unforeseen event that has an injury to workers in the workplace or material loss. Every injury at work is a huge loss not only for the individual but also for his family, for the people surrounding him, for the entire social community, ultimately for the employer himself. Of course, there should be large costs of treatment, sickness, rehabilitation and the like. In addition, regarding this problem, we have had the opportunity to see a lot of remarks that went with the concept of Article 2 paragraph 30, which is a serious injury. So we ask the Ministry to consider it because it seems to us that they are justified and that this part should be repaired by the second reading. As with the status, therefore, also in this article, which applies when speaking in the concept of what is a person at work, and when it comes to injury at work, you say that it is an injury of workers but is left out of work, and in the opinion of experts, that should be complemented. I think we all understand that absolute safety at work is simply impossible to achieve. There are neither jobs nor such that I say a sterile working environment that would not include a certain degree of risk to the health of employees, and the correct assessment of the hazards by work must always include the job itself, the workplace, the working environment and the overall physical and psychological characteristics of workers. We therefore find it extremely important and valuable that this bill, if I may say so, rehabilitate medicine, so we return it to its place of origin, from which it was removed more than 20 years ago and which has been the subject of debate all these years and the warnings of experts that the situation in this area is not good now. However, the system is to say this, a system that represents in fact prevention or preventive activity, which is the main task of maintaining, improving the health of workers and employees, and the longer the work capacity is preserved, the system is nevertheless everything despite what I would say survived in some way, so it was maintained. I think that now we are coming and we hope and thanks to this bill that the medical work will begin to return, so I would say to the branches that it deserves to be in Croatia. When we talk about labour medicine itself, we also propose to the Government, I think that this is already a matter of thinking that these remarks will be accepted, so we propose to the Government to consider the opinion of the profession and that the article 81 which speaks about medical work affairs, that there is a clear indication that these are health and health protection teams' jobs because it is indicated and shows that this is a multidisciplinary approach because these teams enter alongside specialists of medical work and expert protection at work and psychologists and nurses, and, if necessary, a number of other experts. Also, regarding the implementation of health care of workers who are related, so I am talking about Article 63, to accept the suggestion that, instead of a medical examination, there is a provision of a systematic review because the systematic review does not only target what experts say, we are not targeting the possible harmfulness of an organic system, because the systematic examination also respects certain other characteristics and age of workers, sex workers, some others. working conditions that may not necessarily lead to the development of a professional disease, but may damage workers' health. This seems to us that in a much better way, the protection of workers at work would ultimately be achieved. And finally, we at the SDP club welcome the detachment of actually the institution, that part of the Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work, so the separation of the Institute for Protection at Work with the task of conducting the education of experts, to monitor protection at work, to coordinate the collection of data, which will enable us in the future and better prevention, which is ultimately our goal for all. So the SDP Club, along with these notes and remarks that we have had, we propose and accept such a proposal for a law on protection at work in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71646	Thank you, too, dear colleague. Let's go to the replicas. Dear representative Nada Murganic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71647	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister and dear fellow Sobol. My replica refers precisely to the budgetary resources that you have now potentiald, and it will still be, no matter what is said on behalf of the Proposer that this law will not require new funds. Who wouldn't support such a good law in the part where the protection of workers, prevention and from professional illnesses and from injuries or from mortality stands out. However, we always enforce such good laws at a time when we have a very bad material situation. It is not only an employer who is a private person who is obliged to implement this law but also an employer who is on the state budget. Perhaps, however, the funds should be directed towards those institutions and institutions that are on the budget, that they can successfully implement the measures set out in this law, and that the institution that this moment may play a role in education that will cost the same amount, but which will only have the role of statistics remains for some other time because the establishment of the institute always knows that it requires equipment and staff. I don't mean this right now in some bad critical sense. And then when we get into a situation of high demands and low opportunities, we usually give space to inspectors and the possibilities of punishment and a good employer who has good intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71648	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71649	So I would say, I would repeat... so for good laws every time is good, difficult or easy economic situation. And I'm actually sorry that with a bill like this, maybe HDZ in good times, and when you were in power, you didn't go, but in fact, the Department of Labour Protection existed, but it was abolished, with huge opposition to professions, arguments, research, whatever, but it was simply abolished. This law now brings us back to life after so many years, regardless of the difficult economic situation, we are reviving this institution, and all resources and budgets and human resources, so everything is already within the Croatian Institute for Health Protection at Work. So, we're not going to start something new where we should now get new jobs and stuff. So, we think that the existing resources are better off let's say that we're doing something like that and we're trying to get the maximum out of each part of it. As for the employers themselves and possibly their costs related to the implementation of this law, I think I said in my presentation, that since one part of the obligations, procedures and the like was provided for by the current Labour Protection Act, the burden of employers has now been reduced, and we are actually proposing this law that the rest of these funds be rerouted to the part relating to some general working conditions which should have every job, i.e. a worker working in that workplace.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71650	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71651	Dear fellow Sobol, you gave me the opportunity to explain that replica to the minister in your debate. I agree with you that protection at work is not just a protective helmet, gloves, boots, whether they are rubber or whether they are leather with that metal wear, although it is clear today. Protection at work is also a protection against radiation on the screen. So much more subtle than we used to know there were dangers for those who worked, who weren't classic blue collars. But we're talking now about protecting the work of all those who live from their work. But I was talking about getting the biggest job injury on the day of the job, that's what I was saying, that we don't take care of people who aren't at work anymore, who are at the Employment Service, and they have very big consequences, the biggest consequences that are most painful and long-term, and for some and incurable.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71652	The reply to the replica of the respected representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71653	Well, colleague Vuksic, I agree with you that, of course, the greatest stress in every person's life is the person who works and then eventually loses his job and finds himself at the Employment Service. However, I believe that just through the Ministry of Labour and right through the Employment Service, and I believe that you are in a position and that, apart from seeing the number of current unemployed persons on the Bureau's website, you can see even more what it is that is being offered through the Bureau and all of these unemployed people to make it easier for them. So, on the one hand, one part as much financial resources as possible, but on the other hand through various measures to encourage employment to try to get such a worker back to someone as soon as possible, into a new working relationship. I think in that context you should also speak. So, by tomorrow, we can do what we say to cry over the fate of one, the other, or the third. But I think it's important to stress that both the state and this government and the Ministry of Labour right through the Employment Service are trying to make it easier for these people and help them get back to a new job as quickly as possible, a new environment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71654	Honorable representative Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71655	Thank you very much. Mrs Sobol, listening to your debate then I do not understand why no one mentions the former Croatian Health Insurance Institute at work. For when you give the medics a chance to bite, they put them all on one pile and all together. The office used to pay for sickness, treatment, professional illnesses. He had an annual income of about 650 million kuna, spent 450 million. Then it occurred to someone to push it into the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, since a number of new activities are offered here and no one will pay them. And if everything is as you said on behalf of the SDP club and when the minister spoke then it is logical for me if you go this revolutionary procedure that after 11 years you realized that pushing HZZ into the Treasury is something wrong, that now in this revolutionary procedure and the Croatian Institute for Health Protection at Work is isolated from HZZO and that those funds that remain used as means to improve protection at work and to finance all of these services that they are. Because look, if you've had 650 million incomes, the cost of 450 million, and that contribution to health care of 0.5%, I can see that your colleagues don't know what each employee in their salary is paying for. And when you put it in one bucket, and that's Croatian healthcare, then you don't know who paid for what, but it's obvious that there's a surplus of funds being made there. Therefore, if we are already saying that we need to do all this together then it would be logical to talk about the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance and Health Protection at Work being separated from the HZZ and to be closely linked to this law and then we will have everything. So they're paying for sick leave. Yeah, but of course, look, it's hard to explain to someone that there would be extra funds and now that someone's patching up the budget, then they say something isn't revolutionary. If this is revolutionary, then it would be revolutionary and dissipating this again to the Labour Protection Institute and to pay for sickness and all professional illnesses.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71656	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71657	I don't think I've ever used the word revolutionaryly in my debate, and I don't know why you're replicating me and telling me all the time about some revolutionary law. I never thought to call this law revolutionary. I was talking about this law from the SDP club's point of view because we think that some of the things that have been done in the past is now an opportunity to put themselves in place in the way that it's a long-standing profession that I think may be the most important thing in this work with all of its experience for years. And about this question of yours about the institution and colleagues of Shucker, we kind of like to talk about the later minds but there is no colleague of Darko Milinović for you, so ask him and let him answer the question you ask.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71658	Thank you very much. Let's go further into the debate, please, fellow Shucker, tomorrow we'll talk about this, today we'll talk about the Labour Protection Act. Club of Croatian Labourists and Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak. Excuse me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71659	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with assistants, colleagues and colleagues, I welcome the representatives of the unions who are up there and follow this debate about the Labour Protection Act. Today is the World Day of Social Justice and when we talk about protection of work then the Declaration of International Labour Organization in its four important strategic goals has and the goal of protecting the work, we agree with the Minister who said this is an important law, but I do not agree that it is more important than the Labour Law, if the Labour Act will allow the worker to work 16 hours a day, then we ask ourselves a question, in difficult working conditions how workers can secure and maintain their health because, with such work, it will affect the work itself and the health of those who will be exposed to new amendments to the Labour Act, and therefore, in front of this law, I still put the Labour Act on the ground because it provides certain frameworks and this law can only be linked to the Labour Act and protect workers in their workplaces. I agree with the fact that the law is very, very important because it has a certain financial weight and it in some way leads to a situation of whether we will have large health costs due to the treatment of workers and inadequate protection at work, whether we will have a lot of disabled work or will prevent this law from preserving health of work. I have a feeling that in this field when it comes to social dialogue and the preparation of this law has not been done enough. I think that there should have been much more involved making experts on protection at work, making social partners, which all the interested because we see when this first read came to this law they came forward with a lot of this proposal and my suggestion is that between the first and second readings the ministry carefully consider all these proposals and in some way I appeal to try to get to the more high-quality Labour Protection Act because, as we said, the law is very important. The comments and suggestions of the union centres have passed, so all union centres have made objections to the law, the Association of graduates of the High School for Security Alumni which was not included in this part of the preparation of the law, the Ombudsman for children warns of Article 32 when it comes to the work of minors. Croatian employers' associations, which means we still need to show good will when it comes to protecting workers to get as good a law as possible. I think that this will show good will not only for ministers and the government to think about their safety, to buy safe cars and in their workplace in some way to ensure their safety and to put themselves in danger of what we have seen from these last purchases of very safe and expensive cars, that they should think about both those ordinary workers and prevent their lives and dangers from being as high-quality labour law as possible. There have already been talks here today about Article 51 and 52 when it comes to stress at work and it is good to think that this area should be better solved because it needs to be more meaningfully arranged and extended these issues but also in a way that reduces violence in the workplace. We know that the consequences of stress in the workplace can have quite a lot of other phenomena, we know that stress is a serious situation and the stress is that it is somewhere on the highest percentage of the number of workers who open up, and that means what they experience in their workplace and sometimes the cycle and dynamics of work of a particular workplace affects stress, and sometimes they are workers and are exposed to what employers are practically experiencing stressful situations. And that part of the stress diagnosis, it's been growing significantly lately. We used to have that number somewhere around 10%, it goes beyond 16% today, and that means that working conditions when it comes to stressful situations should be something that would prevent workers from experiencing these stressful situations. The stress situation is also losing a job, the stress situation is also a threat to workers that they will lose their jobs and clearly when we have 385 thousand unemployed workers who are at the employment office, and that number I can certainly say is significantly higher because in the last year, 97,000 workers were deleted from the employment office records, which means that this figure exceeds 385 thousand. I would also refer a little bit to certain items in the law itself, and in some ways I suggest that in Article 2 of the Government's representatives to consider that there should be experts in the National Council, and in Article 20, paragraph 2 of the authorised person should be deleted because he should be an expert in protection at work. In Article 22, my suggestion is to consider because there is no sanction for employers unless it is impossible to prevent the work of safety experts at work, which means that the employer will not be sanctioned. In Article 32, paragraph 6 is too long for a period of 6 months to inform the employer of the protection officer at work, and I think that time limit should be reduced to 3 months, and then there will be a more appropriate way of implementing protection at work. In Article 34(7), it is also necessary to add common injuries as a reason for calling a meeting of the Committee on Protection because we know that common injuries are very important, which means that most workers have suffered injury and that part must include Committees on Protection at Work. Article 56 does not sanction the employer if he does not fulfil the obligation to provide first aid until emergency medical assistance arrives, which is why we believe that due to the seriousness of the situation, this part of the possibility for employers in that part to take due account, because if an emergency medical care is not adequately provided to the injured worker, then his life can also be put at risk. What has already been discussed today, and this is Article 58, when 0.5% passed alcohol, then I have to say that the law should comply with other legislation because we know that the Traffic Act is allowed 0.5% passed, so we can have a situation where a worker who works in the afternoon shift drinks one beer, goes to work, stops him, measures his alcohol, and has under 0.5% prominence, will not punish him, and he can continue to drive, will come to his workplace, will work, and will carry out alcohol testing, and the person who is authorized will determine that he has more than 0 promiscations, and will sanction that worker to those worst sanctions that can happen when it comes to workers, and my appeal is within it until another reading to consider this possibility and to comply with other laws. When it comes to Article 65, the employer’s notice, whether or not oral or written, and in practice, could cause a lot of doubt, is my suggestion to adjust that part. Article 70 is a very bad solution and it goes to employers. Trade unions have suggested that where employers have up to 20% of employees, they can appoint labour protection commissioners until they accept it. I must say that in Croatia, we have about 104 thousand employers who employ up to 20 employees, with 360 thousand workers who will not be able to have a work protection commissioner. And here I associate this part of the labour law with the Labour Act because if the choice of labour protection commissioners with an employer who employs more than 20 workers, it is said to be implemented in accordance with the provisions of the general rules on work which regulates the issues of the selection of working councils. Now I have to say that up to 20 employees are not elected, workers' meetings are convened by a working council, and so up to 20 employees don't have working councils, they won't have anyone to call workers' meetings, and then it can be called by an employer, but it doesn't commit or have any sanctions, and why he would ultimately call in such small companies up to 20% of the employees' meetings, there's no reason. And now we see a link between the Labour Protection Act and the Labour Act where things are completely in a particular conflict and it is brought into one situation that a large number of workers will not have protection commissioners at work, and when there is no such thing, there is less protection control at work, and within that, my suggestion is that this possibility is considered by another reading and that due to the quality of protection at work, and if they have a membership with a particular employer, they will be appointed by the Commissioner and then there will be more adequate protection at work. Furthermore, Article 92 contains a provision that the inspector may make it necessary to amend that formulation with the possibility that he may order it if the labour inspector has only the possibility to decide whether to impose certain sanctions on the same employer for the same case and to order the employer to remove certain shortcomings that is his exclusive right where he can place certain employers in a more favourable position while other employers will put in a more unfavourable position. And finally, with the part that even though protection at work is a very serious issue, that somewhere 25% of injuries occur in the processing industry, 20% are in the store, 9.5% are in the public administration, 9.5% are in health care, 9% are in transport and 8% are in construction, and that we need to have parameters when we talk about the Labour Protection Act, and it must adequately and quality ensure work protection especially in those activities where this protection is where major injuries occur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71660	Thank you very much. Let's go to the replicas, respected representative Nada Murganic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71661	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. Dear fellow Tušak, I would really like to join your thinking which of these two laws is more important and very difficult to decide for reasons of health and safety of workers. However, I agree with you on how our Labour Act will be depends on how we implement these provisions proposed in the Labour Protection Act. I really welcome the introduction of provisions that protect workers from high risk, psychosocial risks and psychophysiological risks. But at a time of general uncertainty, at a time when work is truly great happiness and very often is talked about layoffs, surpluses, bankruptcys, outsourcings about not knowing everything, that in the last few months, and even years, the most frequent basis of working relationships for a certain time, I really don't understand how we're going to repeat the good provisions in this law to protect workers from stress and from many things. How are we going to explain to a mother who will have extended working hours that she doesn't know where she's going with her child when she's in kindergarten and how we're going to be able to provide them with everything this law requires. I really think the law is very good and demanding but there are other regulations to follow.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71662	Thank you very much. Reply to the Replica Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71663	Thank you very much. Well, I agree greatly with you that I continue to claim that the Labour Act is my first priority because if we don't have the Labour Act, then we don't even need the Labour Protection Act. And when we talk about work injuries clearly, then this law must be very good at protecting workers. And I agree with you in that finding that if the Labour Act will allow for a working time schedule where mothers will be in a situation that will be difficult to take care of their children, it will be another additional stress to workers, and then it will have certain consequences because of the stress itself, because we know that if workers are under stress for a long time then they experience certain health problems which then have certain other repercussions, and that is the issue of the cost of being sick. And not to say that the illnesses have been reduced precisely because of the fear of losing certain jobs people won't even go to a doctor when they're sick they're afraid if they go to sick leave without a job, and they'll certainly have these stressful situations also have consequences for these workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71664	Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71665	Dear fellow Tušak, you said in your opening statement that it was not done enough in social dialogue. In fact, social dialogue is avoided, workers and their representatives unions are ignored. The prime minister and ministers try to praise from day to day how many concessions they made to employers, capitalists. And these same employers are responsible for losing jobs maybe more than the state itself. Bad managers and bad intentions in the economy marked a longer period of the Croatian state, and all this breaks across the back of workers with whom the authorities have broken all ties. But unfortunately, we came as a colleague earlier said from HDZ to the situation when and for those who are not really allowed to do it is work of happiness, and when they experience that happiness, they may not wear what we say here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71666	Reply to the Replica Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71667	Thank you very much. I agree with you that there is no social dialogue, but for a long time the economic social council has not functioned at all around certain legal solutions. Social dialogue is more played than really social dialogue because arguments on certain issues are not used. And clearly when arguments are avoided, then the consequences are such that laws are passed that go only to some, and in this case they are employers, although employers are also as some third link of social dialogue that should be but until there is no such balance then clearly that social dialogue is gone and workers are in a much more unfavourable position in any case, and this is certainly used by employers. And I agree with you, work is happiness, but not all the work is not happiness because what is being prepared for the workers turns out that the worker will not be happy, but will be necessarily evil in order to survive and feed himself and the family. Because around that we are very far away to create conditions for work to be happiness.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71668	Dear Representative Boro Guribisc, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71669	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You were talking about stress growing in modern times, so you're talking about some percentage of 16% of people who are employed, who are affected by stress. Now, I'm going to carve a little bit, but you can imagine that when you talk about cars in a job protection function like our government is saying that this is a stress reaction of the people, the media and everyone else that these people are shaking because they won't be able to protect themselves on their work or at least a little less protect themselves by middle-class cars. What's that stress when you separate someone from the HBOR as a cash register of mutual help, how a man shakes, what's his stress. He also gets into those 16%, but there are those that someone here talked about, and that's the ones that get hired and those are 80 and more posts. They are in constant stress from the day of employment until the day of their notice, so whether they stay or survive on the job. So we hire stressful people from the beginning. And especially when we're talking about health care and some other segments, this famous outsourcing, and it's actually about outlets.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71670	Reply to the Replica Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71671	Thank you, Mr. President, my colleague Grubisic, I agree with you that a large number of people living in a stressful situation cannot feed themselves and their families, 20% is exclusively within the poverty line, and it is clearly a stressful situation. It's a stressful situation if he doesn't get paid in time and he has to pay the director's fee because he's immediately threatened by someone to shut him down, the situation. Clearly, the stressful situation has become, no one can be employed or very little is employed indefinitely. And clearly these people live in constant stress. Such constant stress will have profound consequences through health care, which is definitely collapsing us and the consequences these people will suffer to cope with today’s stressful situation. Somewhere in some documents, I read that the worker is not a slave from the ruling coalition, but I am increasingly convinced that it is a fluscal that has been inserted into those documents and that workers are still becoming goods.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71672	Dear colleague Marin Jurjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71673	Thank you. Comrade Tušak, you have made a very correct statement of the position of your club but you can see what I have the observation that there is one film, a famous Hungarian director named Miklos Jansco and a film called "The Virtues of Public Vice Secrets". What bothers me is your unquestioning party rhetoric protection of absolute, radical all labour rights and rights stemming from work and the world of work and in practice is something else. Here in the country you are not in power but is in a municipality near Ivanic-City called Križ. Yesterday your president said the government can't count to 21 because you asked for an example. to pay 21% off the officials. And in the municipality of Cross a few days ago, the opposition demanded that labor authorities cut salaries by 15%. Normally your chief, his deputies and everyone else refused, it was on the city council. As your colleague Lesar said the government can't count to 21 and there seems to be some kind of specific labor math school that can't count to 15. So it's just that there's a huge discrepancy between what's public speaking in front of cameras and what's going on where cameras aren't like the Cross Community. That's the problem it seems to me that's not tiny on this political scene and you're one by one bad at me, I don't mean you personally, but I mean such a party's behavior one example that's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71674	Reply to the Replica Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71675	Thank you. A fellow Jurjevic, it may be that someone is in power but in a certain municipality, in a certain city. I think you have in certain municipalities in the city and in the counties of a certain government, saying that you don't steal, that you don't process, and yet some things are at the DORH's end, will finally determine what it is. One thing we're talking about is that Cross Town isn't in this House's domain, and that's where they're going to answer to those citizens for all the gaps they possibly make. But here in the Parliament, we're talking about government officials' salaries. And when Croatian Labourers advocated that 21% of government officials' salaries were lifted, then we seriously advocated it, and we seriously believe that this should be done, that fate should be shared with citizens. If someone elected there won't share fate with their citizens then they've played their trust and it'll show up in the election. But I think when it comes to elections for the Croatian Parliament it will certainly show what you and your Plan 21 have managed to do to these citizens. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71676	Thank you very much. Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71677	Thank you, Mr. President. So, colleague Tušak, you, like all previous speakers, spoke about the necessity of quality protection at work with a fundamental goal of preventing work injuries, professional illnesses and improving health at work. Of course, if that is not so, the consequences are that we have a large number and disabled work and a large percentage of the sick on this basis, which is why we are one of the first in a wider European environment. But you know what's on it, they say the number of injuries to work. It's falling, of course, because there's a growing number of jobs, and the other thing, let's say when it comes, someone gets hurt at work, he reports by the doctor, this one does it, then the competent authority has to verify it. Someone's been on sick leave for 2-3 months, and there's a solution not to accept it, as a result of that, for the one who's been injured, so it has a consequence that there's no certain rights on that basis. And the other thing that is certainly due to attention, this psychosocial protection and stress. It's over, it's clear, because every one who's in matters of existence, losing a job, and social well-being is a fundamental prerequisite for health and he's automatically stressed, he's sick, he goes to a doctor and has an absolute indication of his illness. There is. On the other hand, HZZO is pressing this doctor who says we need to cut the sick, reduce the sick, cut the sick, and the doctor is stressed. And I'm asking who's protecting you, Doctor? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71678	Now we'll hear a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71679	Thank you. My colleague Milinkovic, I couldn't agree more when it comes to stress. The other day, I was talking to an employee who works at a state-owned company. She suffered stress and ended up sick and sick because of her direct manager who wants to make her quit, not that she quit because she didn't make a certain mistake, because she already knows that there's someone in her place to hire. And the woman ended up being stressed out on sick leave. Now that he's been sick, he's been asked to return to that environment and I don't know what he's gonna do. As she is exposed, what is the situation, which she will address for everything she suffers, and the question is both mobbing and all other things, and the question is her job and her existence and feeding children. It's life, it's reality, and if we don't take care of it when we write down certain laws, then we're far from those citizens for whom these laws should be written.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71680	Dear Representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71681	Dear colleague, you spoke of the employer's obligations and the costs that will arise under this law. There is no claim by the minister from the interpretation of the law that this law will not cause any higher costs, either by state or public service. I responsibly claim that he will. This law raises standards of scales and obligations of punishment, all of which will result in additional costs. And as an example, I'm going to give you the latest amendments to the law that came into force in 2009, when it came down to Coordinator 1, the coordinator left it in this law in Article 73, where besides all the employer's obligations, and the employer can be considered an investor, because he also gives some jobs where the investor is obliged to appoint the coordinator 1 in the projector who designs and pays him, to appoint coordinator 2 in the performance of the work and pay him, and in the law it remains that the responsibility remains, regardless of which he appointed coordinator 1 and 2, the responsibility remains on the investor which is absurd. It went into the law to build on something that has already been applied in European countries, but let us say in our own way that it is the one who gives someone a job, to perform it because it is professional, which must have the security and commissioner and the protection of the work itself in the area of his work, is further appointed by Coordinator 1 and Coordinator 2 and all goes to the expense of investors, and yet it is the units of local self-government, state and additional cost. We have the supervisory engineer we pay, we have the coordinator 1 we pay, we have the coordinator 2 we pay, and the responsibility is that it's absurd again on the investor who can be completely unprofessional in that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71682	Thank you very much. Time's up. The reply to the replica, the esteemed Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71683	Thank you very much. Look, I can argue and you can claim that it will generate higher costs, I don't care much if the law itself produces higher costs. If we reduce labour injuries, if we ensure better quality protection of workers, if we reduce workers' stress, if we reduce workers' sick conditions, if workers are more quality in the process of work, rather than going with stomach cramps to their workplace, then we have done a good job with the law, because on the other hand less costs will be in health care, in treatment, less costs will be sickness benefits, less we will have disabled work, and then clearly we can think about both discharges and the economy and in some way providing funds for other things. So I think that this part of the Labour Protection Act is a very important law, and it needed much better access to it in its own making, taking all the elements into account and clearly that we are talking about it in a completely different way today. I'm so afraid this first reading is more of a bill than what should wait for us in the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71684	Dear colleague, representative Vanja Posavac replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71685	Thank you. You spoke to your colleague about the prevention of stress, and you said only the employer was guilty. I have to fill you in a little bit that today, of course, the biggest stress is job loss, but that stress is not only caused by the employer, but we have more and more cases of stress being caused by quotes and clients, i.e. its environment. Secondly, you spoke of Article 58, which is a ban on alcohol and how it should be brought into line with the law. Namely, you say the worker works this afternoon, so here's a few drinks before work, so if the traffic police catch him, then there'll mean if the employer catches him, there'll be problems. So it seemed to me that you were raising a drinking culture that otherwise exists in the Republic of Croatia to a higher level. I have to make it right that if someone has a 0.5 perm and makes a car accident, it's guilty, so it's less than that. Secondly, I have to say that I don't want to be driven or driven by a bus driver, a tram with neither 0.2 proms, nor that a doctor, a surgeon, operated on me with 0.1 proms, so that I absolutely don't agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71686	Replica reply, Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71687	Thank you. My colleague Posavec, so I'm afraid some other drunks are, I wasn't talking about drunks. I was talking about two laws that aren't in sync with each other, but it seems that some people live in a drunken world and then think differently and take something I didn't say. But why don't you tell me the countries in the environment that are related to 0.5% of the alcohol protection, spilling alcohol protection on the work that these countries are not built in, and then I'll take your arguments seriously into account. I'll take your arguments into account if you tell me that the Traffic Act is not allowed 0.5. Then it's up to the law to get that part out of it, too. And when you talk about professional drivers, a completely different law applies to them, and I was talking about workers, and that doesn't mean that professional drivers if they were to be incorporated into the Labour Protection Act, that up to 0.5 or 0.3% of alcohol spills have to mean that they can have professional drivers when they're in their workplace. Because clearly they have to take care of those people they answer for and when they drive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71688	Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71689	Thank you, Mr. President, colleague Tušak. First of all, I want to show myself about your demands that 0.5 alcohol spills should be tolerated in the workplace. I absolutely disagree with the fact that you think this law should be brought into line with the Road Safety Act, and here you are now saying that a professional driver. Yeah, a professional driver and it's one job and it's a worker. So he's not allowed to have 0.0. He can't drive with 0.1 as far as I know. So I am absolutely against being allowed at any workplace for any worker or worker to have 0.1 and even more to have 0.5 prominences. Second, I also wanted to be involved in the protection of workers who are proposed under this law to be elected by the workers themselves, so from the ranks of the workers. Otherwise, I cannot agree that there was no social dialogue. I think, personally, I think it was him. This does not mean that all the remarks that have to be adopted, but also that does not mean that between the two readings with possibly additional conversations, there are some things that cannot be further arranged and improved. The protection of work is important, it is important for us to understand for each worker whether he was a member of the union or not. And this law and the proposal that we are, as the Government has suggested, we want to promote exactly that, the understanding of workers about the importance of every worker on the importance of protection at work. And we believe that this is a better way to establish this mutual trust between the workers and the person who will be elected by them as Commissioner. So workers give him their trust directly, not to appoint them as someone else independent of their will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71690	Thank you very much. Reply to the Replica Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71691	Comrade Sobol, that we can differ well in our opinion when it comes to 0.5%. But you yourself said the Transport Safety Act there clearly states that professional drivers can't have 0.5% alcohol spills, although professional drivers don't. But then clearly that should apply to both MPs and everyone else, so come on, if that's how we are then let's get into all the laws of that, let's be consistent with that and change that law. There's no obstacle. I'm not up for it. I mean, at the end of the day, it could be everywhere, so let's make it 0.5%. And when we talk about social dialogue, I still argue that it was more of a social dialogue act than it really was, because a lot of remarks, the proposal came in a long time ago, which should have been incorporated into the laws. And I don't agree with you when you talk about those companies where there are up to 20 employees, because in such companies, or the current provisions, and neither will the future commissioner of protection at work. Because the workers themselves in such companies won't be allowed to choose because of the employer's choice. While in the situation if we give the union the opportunity to appoint a commissioner then they won't ask the employer in that company if they can, trade unions can do it outside the company. I did that if the workers don't agree to appoint such a commissioner and install in the law they don't encourage him, so let's choose this other one but let's not cut the branch we're sitting on because this way we won't have a protection commissioner working in these small companies safely according to this solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71692	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It's the SDSS Club and the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71693	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with an associate. On behalf of the Independent Democratic Serb Party Club, you have the support to pass this law. We think it's a very big and serious procedure, a serious job, that it's time for the old concepts to be completed in some way and we think you have this rather casual situation that you have to reconcile the different interests that are current at the moment. But, well, for us, protection at work along with the Labour Act is something that is most important in the domain of working relationships. Those who have been lucky or who have worked in production directly especially in some areas that are very risky, know very well what a well-organized working relationship means and also well-organised protection at work. These are basic things that they do along with the salary of a satisfied worker and then we can expect him to create some new values. Unfortunately, today we have a situation that this working relationship is not protected by some of our visions, our standards of seeing protection because if we have a situation where someone like that in Baranja is almost often the case that someone can, through occasional and temporary work, work for a certain time for 20 years with a very strong and respected employer with a perspective to welcome a pension then we don't see and we don't think it's a high standard of protection of working relationships, it's a charity that these people get through some kind of contracts for a certain time and an opportunity to get a little social and profit. So, it is not the concept of protecting the working relationship as we see it, and it is good that it will be very soon to discuss the Labour Law as an essential law that regulates this problem because then society will see how the problem is being considered and what kind of relationship there is between individual political parties or individual political options. In any case, the most numerous addresses of this law are employees and their employers and there are nearly a million of them. For them, this law should be clear to us, to be understood, to be comprehensive, so that they know their rights and obligations, to the meaning of such a law must not be guessed. It must be in this concept that in the first reading therefore there must not be anything unspeakable and vague. It is explained that this law is in line with five EU directives, and it is also said that such a directive has a current 19, there are probably reasons why this is in line with only 5 directives. I won't talk about it, I'm just finding the situation and we're also thinking that the proposal to transpose the directive into national legislation should not be used as an excuse to reduce at least the level of protection of workers at work by respecting, of course, our international obligations arising from our position right now. Why do we think it is necessary to create a new concept or to develop an existing protection law at work because we think that the current system has been ineffective. The data suggest that the number of injuries to work, diseases from professional diseases and the damage caused suggests a high degree of inefficient systems of protection at work in Croatia so far, so we have the information that some 138 thousand injuries have been recorded since 99-2011, and, unfortunately, 2112 professional diseases have been diagnosed and 734 workers have died during that period. All this, estimated by international organisations, is costing $12 billion in budget. According to some provisions of specialised EU organisations, if losses caused by work injuries and occupational diseases are equal to or greater than 2% of gross social products, the prevention system is considered ineffective and needs to be continuously improved. In this context of this definition and evaluations we also observe the amendments to this Labour Protection Act, so in order to try to be more constructive in this matter, I will go through several concrete articles and point out in the first reading of certain shortcomings, we will probably say something more concrete in the second reading about it. Article 5 speaks of the authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the formation of the National Council and it is said that the National Council consists of three representatives of the Government, one representative of employers and one representative of workers. We think that this form of participation is a visible sub-representation of workers and employers 3:1:1 because they are the main consummations of this law and we need to regulate in a different way the proportion of that participation of workers in particular. We also believe that in this National Council there should be explicit, i.e. mandatory membership and certain professional workers from the powers of protection at work. Article 20 discusses the contracting of work protection jobs, and it is said that an employer who employs up to 50 workers and trusts an authorised person. This means some specialized organization that's out of the company's system and that's what we said earlier that we have a tendency to do business outside the service system. And the question is, is that the right dimension of such services? In addition, Council Directive 89 EU does not distinguish the size of employers in terms of contracting job protection at work, in particular not with external service, therefore, there should not be a criterion of up to 50 workers relevant for the negotiation of these types of services. We think that with an authorised person that definition should be deleted and we ask the question, so what is the difference between employers and 50 workers and employers with 51 workers? So that limit is something that's probably hard to define in the very bottom line, but here it's very discussionable for us. In Article 25, responsibility for the damage to work and working relationships for us is a key definition that, in addition to injuries to work and occupational diseases, the principle of cause of the employer's objective responsibility is defined by the category of diseases related to work as a third group of obligations based on objective responsibility. This is because we believe that work-related illness may have cause and pests and in the very character of the workplace, which, of course, can be manifested later, can lead to illness or worsen the condition of the worker or the existing one of his illnesses, and therefore we think that this should also be undertaken under the objective responsibility of the employer. We can consider it to be a particular so-called. crawling damages that last long can last until retirement, and in the end can cause the worker himself to be disabled, and here in the law we do not foresee this as the employer's responsibility. In Article 30, training for work in a safe way, it is said that by reading the very definition of this law, we see that an expert, therefore, is not required by this definition of the law to have andragogical knowledge, so I do not know why, but this should probably be corrected. In Article 33, we have the definition of consultation, so it is said that an employer who, under this law does not have the right to choose a labour protection commissioner, is consulted on the issues referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. The question arises, it is unclear what workers are who, by the definition of this law, do not have the right to choose the Commissioner because, according to Article 70, if I have correctly understood it, all workers have the right to choose the Commissioner accordingly, I think there is a certain kind of discrepancies between that article and Article 70. Article 43 of the Protection Supervisory Authority, as a means of protection of work, of course, that these are very interesting things, could be spoken of, but is foreseen, for the use of this, an arbitration decision is provided. The question arises how we're going to have an arbitration decision when we haven't defined an arbitration institute, so we haven't determined the composition, we haven't determined the jurisdiction, we don't know what the costs of this arbitration are, even though we don't rule out the possibility that it's not a good variant, but I think that arbitration institute should then be in this legal text and defined. In the article 51 of stress, it is quite clear that, if you have dealt with this stress and given it special attention, the only question is what stress means when you expect and cancel and when no one guarantees anyone safety at work, but good. What's missing, here is missing, and it's except for the stress of defining and harassing the workplace, so-called. mobbing, we think that this should be defined in this legal text and we are not acceptable to reason that it will be processed in some kind of parallel special law. In Article 70, the choice of Commissioners and the Commissioner could be discussed, it is more likely that people with more experience with the institution and the work of Commissioners will speak on the subject. I'm just going to ask the question here, the modulations of the choice of commissioners for us are quite acceptable, but we don't see as colleagues before us, we don't see why there's no possibility that in the selection of commissioners in certain situations and involving trade unions, or we don't think that it would be worse to involve this whole thing as much as possible, as some kind of partner, and to define it in the text itself and trade unions as representatives of workers. In Article 83, we define a new institute, which is the Department of Labour Protection, and if it wasn't for such a serious issue as the protection of work that we have in one part been disabled so far, if it weren't for this, we would be against the establishment of a new institution like we are against the establishment of many of these agencies, but I'm saying it's not a serious issue, since it's a matter, we accept that this whole thing is somehow controlled through the Department of Labour Protection as a special institute. But in article 85, we have a question, and we think it's an unnecessary composition of seven members that it can be understood by five members of the board of directors. We also think that it is not a good composition that three members of the board of directors give the minister responsible for the work. Three members are on a proposal from the National Council on Labour Protection, and one member is a worker. And we think that this is also about the sub-representation of those structures that should be the biggest consummations of this law, which are workers. As with the National Council, we think that we also need to correct this, or that workers must have a more significant number of representatives. Finally, in Article 103, it is good that the Government will appoint a national council within 30 days, but we think that it is too long for the ministry to adopt accompanying acts within 90 days, we think that this thing should be rushed, shortened, because without these accompanying acts, this system that we want to establish by law cannot be fully understood by the effective reach of this law. We are in principle to accept this concept in the first reading, and in the second reading we will probably have some more...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71694	Thank you. Replica Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71695	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Horvat well here in the previous replica I talked a little bit about doctors and health care so it's not always about agriculture but I can't do it against myself, so I have to mention that population because they often ask, and who we are and who thinks of us. So what I'm trying to say is, in that part of it, I just checked in to see where you were talking about risky jobs, and there's a lot of risky jobs in agriculture. One particular area before a short time we had the Law on pesticides, we will all agree that it is an extremely risky job where it is necessary and necessary education, but of course now we are buried with all these offers that education is of course costing and obligation to pay where it can help local self-government to assist according to its capabilities but surely it is an extremely important area. And not to mention working with machines, with tools, injuries that are quite common, and stress is a day-to-day constant issue of existence that has failed and are going in this direction, unfortunately it is immensely large and certainly this population is experiencing great stress. Maybe it'll help this law yesterday, what we were talking about the Trade Act when a farmer from Koprivnicki borgi will be able to bring a ton of green into a shopping mall, and I just think it'll be able to sell to that mall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71696	The answer to the line of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71697	Thank you. My colleague, when you've already opened that topic, I'm just going to add, so I used to work in forestry, and thanks to a well-organized work protection system, there were minimal injuries, and here, when the injuries happen, they're catastrophic for the worker, one of the more likely can happen in that dam. But you were talking about agriculture, what's interesting about us in Baranja, in my environment, is there's a lot of work injuries, say, in a corn picker, because of the inexhaustible wetting, when that livator pulls in one part of your clothes and your whole hand. These are terrible things precisely because people are not somehow trained to work with these machines or to use machines that are out of date that do not have that kind of protection. This is the importance of protection at work, which we often attach little importance to. There are many more important topics for us to discuss, but when this happens, you can see how much an organized field service means.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71698	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71699	Thank you very much. You spoke of examples in Baranja and work on certain times and occasional jobs, working occasionally, for a certain 20 years. It's not just a case in Baranja. Let's just take an example of HRT for years on the same permanent job by journalists who can't have a permanent working relationship. What are the inspectors doing here? In the telecommunications sector, every 6 months students or young people change and hire for a certain time at the same jobs. Permanent work but occasional employment. Where's the worker protection? When it comes to physical protection at work from injuries, then there is both a legal system and practically a high level. But when it comes to health protection and health protection, we're at the lowest possible level. In what state are the workers on the stock market and their owners the company's richest people in the country? What is the protection of the health of workers working without pay? What is the protection of the health of those who work overtime and Saturdays until 11:00 p.m. and who are not paid for overtime? What is the protection of those who cannot collect their claims? What is the protection of the health of those who are forced by the state to write off claims and pay taxes? How many broken families, how many children went the wrong way, how many cancers were earned, how many suicides? Nobody knows that and nobody cares in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71700	The answer to the line of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71701	Thank you. I fully agree with my colleague, Maric, with your findings. As long as the primary thing is capital, the build-up of capital so far is what you were saying in the back. And when it's discussed at some point about the Labour Act, we'll be against preferring the occasional labor institute. I'm with people who often work for 20 years, cut vineyards, and they only need them until the hard work is done, then they're sent to the bureau and then they retire after three months and so until they retire. And we're talking about the human system now, we're talking about the concept, we're talking about labour rights, and I don't know what we're talking about. Obviously, the whole thing's just being put into a capital-gathering function. And the last thing is thinking about an ordinary man, thinking about some kind of rights that we said at some point that they were... that they're out of date. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Obviously, we are wrong, trends in Europe say that re-thinking is returning to the concept of the protection of workers we had 20 years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71702	Ante Sanader, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71703	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Horvat you were talking about working in a safe way risky jobs and this surprise that you should not have andragogical knowledge in which I absolutely support you because I think you should have it. But another thing that you as a former mayor and a friend of the firemen should support us is that the firefighters should be excluded from this Labour Protection Act. Why? Because the police and the military are exclusive and the firemen are no exception from this law. I think Mr. Minister will have an understanding of that because the fire department's training and training is absolutely prepared, every firefighter can't be in a position to be a fireman if he doesn't pass all the education. So we come into ridiculous situations that a firefighter who has all the necessary calls and knowledge must go to work safely for the ladder and can't be a firefighter if he hasn't passed the training on the ladder and now he has to go to work in a safe way climbing the ladder. Or working in a safe way by handling a chain saw. So funny things come and for firefighters very expensive and huge resources we have to spend on it just because we're the bonds of this Labour Protection Act and the police and the military are excluded and I don't see any reason that firefighters would also be military and police because they couldn't be excluded from this Labour Protection Act. Because I'm saying I don't have any decision to go to special training and especially work in a safe way handling a chain saw or tomorrow it's gonna be a jet-handling because you know it can burn it. Well, it's basically his activity that he doesn't have to go to a special position and spend his resources on it. Well, here's my appeal to my colleagues here and to the minister to appreciate it. And there were promises not made by the minister but co-workers that the firefighters would be put here with the military and the police.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71704	The answer to the line of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71705	Of course, I have no other choice but to find that the military, the police and the fire department is one special service that is being educated in a special way. And in any case, they're high-risk jobs and they should be treated differently. And I totally agree that they need to be singled out. After all, in our second reading, we have opportunities to resolve this with an amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71706	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71707	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. I will once again present myself to you that I am a work security engineer, that I am a negotiator in 2003 on the draft laws when we introduced social dialogue into the Labour Protection Act, which suffered all the criteria of the European Commission and remained neat and without any objections passed all the criteria and two years a member of the National Work Protection Council. It's just that we're talking very precisely about a matter that itself is very, very precise and does not tolerate, for example, the discussions that took place in this assembly this morning, connecting or insinuating. This is a multidisciplinary area, this is an area of special social interest. And talking about social dialogue at the general level doesn't mean talking about social dialogue on protection at work. Because social dialogue at the general level is in some ways reconciliation and the interests of employers, workers and the state. And you know if this were how union representatives now screamed because of the provisions of Article 90, 91, if they were to scream on January 1, 2011, the employers would be very correct. Why? Well, because then the Croatian Institute for Insurance of Injuries at Work was attached to the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance. The analyses indeed showed that he had some 150 million kuna per year over expenditures, and this was to be carried out in preventive work protection activities, which was not done because the Institute, I guess, bothered the name of the institute to be abolished a little earlier. But the employers didn't scream. Employers continue, not workers, the mistake is what was said this morning here and from Mr. Minister and esteemed colleagues, employers on our gross salary pay 0.5%, on every gross salary, it is about 35 kuna per employee in the Republic of Croatia. It's no problem to calculate to gather into a state treasury about 500 million kunas, perhaps something more. But they didn't, the employers didn't protest because the absence of an office gave them no new information about progress in the world's work protection system. No, the rest is like that. And I hope that through the introduction of the institute, but also by serious debate and the introduction of this special security for work protection we will finally make the steps we wanted to make in 2003. That's one step we talked about at the time, and then there was a lot of silence. It's about the system bonus malace. Why should all employers pay the same contribution to work injuries independently of the level of risk? Why should one who invests more in protection at work and reduces injuries have no bonus and one who neglects protection at work has a small or increased contribution. We've never done this before, but eventually, if there was any extra cash, we'd go dark in some other trust fund and spend it. Of course, there's more to the need than there are sources. ... We understand, understand, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, it often appears in newspapers. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's move on. When we talk about social dialogue in the protection of work, it's something else, something completely different than social dialogue that laws are passed. The heart of social dialogue in protection at work is the Committee on Work Protection. This is the employer's advisory board, but also the place where the work protection commissioner, work protection expert, labour medicine expert, employer's authority, work protection expert, labour inspector. It is a place where a multidisciplinary decision is made to protect the work. It's so imaginary, and wherever we're in practice we're closer to the theory we're more successful than where we're practically running from theory. And there is a well-drawn social dialogue in the protection of work and there is no need to be ashamed of it and it is not the cause of change, change and addition of this law. To be clear, I have not noticed that in the past 11 years neither employers nor unions have performed publicly that this law is not good, and indeed the European Commission has also said that the law is good and that the old law that you have in legalis.hr has refined text. Nothing would have happened, nothing dramatic in the world of work would have happened. But surely we will welcome the quality changes that go towards improving work protection. I'll be free to suggest that the labor protection office is not called the labor protection office, but the labor protection agency because everything else doesn't make sense. If we're going to keep an existing level, if we don't move forward, it doesn't make much sense. We have at the HSU Club and I personally, given that this is my narrow area, my area of interest, if the law were in this condition in the second reading, we would probably have 20 amendments, but I hope that through dialogues with the Ministry and through the Committee and through the social partners we will strengthen some things, and some things will fix. What we have observations, I'm going to say, is, of course, the term is good that it's introduced, so it explains certain concepts in the system. I join what my colleague Gordana Sobol said in the 30th sentence, of course it would be enough to connect with the Penal Code because only the Penal Code says what is more severe, which is a minor injury. I also recommend to the Ministry that when we connect these laws not to be in particular law because the Labour Protection Act is a special law, we are not more believers than the Pope, i.e. to bind ourselves to the Criminal Law and to say that the provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations apply properly, but that the provisions of the Road Safety Act apply accordingly. Because, you know, we now have an absolute ban on the existing law, an absolute ban on alcohol consumption, the consumption of intoxicating agents, we have an absolute ban on smoking at work, and about such provisions have a prohibition of action. And you know how prohibition ends? Of course, resistance is created and, of course, it's all happening again in the workplace. Look, we've advocated in our economy the polyvalentity of profession. Today we have mechanics who are trained to operate the crane, to drive forks, side forks, electric carts, etc. and he's not a professional driver, but he's involved in traffic because industrial roads are the same roads, they have to be marked, they have to have signs of bans, guidelines and everything else as on official roads. I don't see why in this law we have to be more believers than the Pope, especially because, and the minister knows that because according to the profession, the doctor, which the medicine has divided the tolerance area up to 0,5 promiscuous, from 0.5 to 1.5 is a mildly drunk state, from 1.5 to 2.5 is a drunk state, and from 2.5 the blood flow is still a difficult drunk state. So it's an encyclopaedic division, we have nothing to talk about. When we say zero, then there's no tolerance threshold, and life has to have a tolerance threshold. And that's why I'm betting that we have both driving and doing the same conditions, or that we're not creating here a position that someone can't really drive can have 0.3 and can't get into the company. You can end up, you can lift all the sticks. I'm not giving up because I've visited the world, seen shipyards where at lunchtime it's free to consume children's wine or a little beer. So I don't see that we're much smarter than some others and that's not the essence of a work injury. After all, I've been on a reconnaissance in my career for at least 15 pardons of fatal injuries. None of them were the cause of the fatal injury, but it was something else, which is not applying basic and special rules of protection at work. So, I've said it already, and I'm going to do it again. I'm going to do it for the labor protection department. For what reason? Because protection at work is not something that we will only write in the law, but is a set of regulations, these are methods and procedures in production. It's being built into design, not just punishment and surveillance. I have been in Italian shipbuilding many times, where unlike our shipbuilding office methods and procedures arranges protection at work. And then you don't have a welding in the fences, so the fence bearer, that every welds for the shelling of the ship, or the end of the section. Of course, it is necessary to prevent a fall from an elevated place, but there is a device that screws up and holds that fence column that reduces later cutting, grinding, alignment. So, there's a plan to protect the work. Em's cost is higher, em's number, the amount of risk that we have is higher when we've got lousy work operations. I think it's too ambitious to say that we're reintroducing medicine into work protection. We give her a better, better position this way, because she's already been a contractual relationship with the employer. Did we, through the inspection, insist that the employer has a contract with the medicine of work if he has in the process of determining harmfulness and danger, therefore in the assessment process if there are any reported harmfulities and dangers whether he has concluded a contract with the medicine or is not a different matter. But she still, she was the other contractual relationship. And I think we should improve in any case the knowledge of medicine work, systematically connect and so on. But this isn't a new role. Those who are inside survived and accumulated a bunch of good experiences in labor medicine. Unfortunately, she is not attractive as other medical powers. Of course, for the National Work Protection Council, we advocate that experts be represented. I'll join the end. My personal account with the provisions of the new law regarding the Commissioner will be heard in an individual debate, but I ask that both the place of work and the place of work to have a place in this law because the assessment, therefore, and the health skills of workers and, let's say, systematic checks are linked to the workplace. Because the workplace can have one or more jobs, and each place can have different harmfulities and dangers. Of course I say that we will support this law in our first reading, hoping for constructive dialogue between the social partners and our involvement to do as much quality law as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71708	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71709	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Hrelja. At the beginning of your debate, you spoke of who should have screamed everything at a certain point when it was both the Labour Act and the Labour Protection Act. My colleague Hrelj, on this date, screams in the silence of his home if there are still 384 unemployed who have been protected from labor. And this labour law means nothing to them. Believe me, today the government is drawing conclusions about not buying expensive cars, and it's already got them. We can see about a farmer who must be screaming when today and this will find out that the paying agency bought expensive ice screens and TVs in 3D technology at the price of 35,000 kunas, so I guess they would watch what they did and how the village collapses in 3D technology to make it easier for them to take it in the nice comfort of their chairs and offices. Shame! Croatia's 160,000 kuna lottery gives lunches a month. Please, they say why shouldn't we treat our guests with champagne with golden leaves? My colleague Hrelj, today they're screaming people, they're really screaming in silence still. The law on protection at work yes, but before that, it takes jobs for people to work. so less than one-third of the eligible working population in the Republic of Croatia only works. more than two-thirds of people don't work. That's what the problem is today, whether someone agrees or disagrees with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71710	My colleague, first you're replicating what wasn't exposure and then you don't stick to the time. Replication response, Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71711	First of all, this wasn't a business replica for me because it went completely in the other direction, but I know what I came from, and I feel for all those who are out of work, but I'm also a professional at my job as well as in protection at work here and here in the Parliament today, and I'm talking about the Labour Protection Act that's on the agenda today, and I'm ready to face the facts in this law with all of you and defend my views. And that is the essence of the political action of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and not of demagogy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71712	Ivan Shuker replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71713	Thank you very much. My colleague Hrelja, I hope that what I say will not be demagogy but a fact which is the Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work. So he once put it in the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance for the simple reason that the difference between income and expenditure was positive, although perhaps if we had never put the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance into the budget maybe someone more strongly considered that there was something to be done in this sector because it would be seen exactly how much of the budget is allocated and why these funds are being allocated, but now I do not understand, one segment of which first of all protection at work is detached from this one system but the funds remain within the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. So isn't it logical if the Croatian economy pays around 650 million not like you said 500 on the basis of 0.5 contributions to protection on the job that this institution is being singled out and that if we want to have it, although I don't think it makes any sense to set up a work protection service, but in the existing office, it could have been organised differently and it could have worked great because look at people if they're doing well, they'll do well regardless of the organisational form and we've now dug up the state inspectorate, convincing that the same people will work better but well, it's just like that. However, the key thing is that there is no means to implement this law. Well, you can't pursue higher goals, you can't ask someone to do more if you haven't provided him with material resources. That's just impossible. Do we need to fool ourselves because we are all aware at this point in time of the state budget? But what we are discussing here in the House and no one wants to talk about it because if we do not provide these funds, all of these provisions of the law will be a dead letter on paper, a dead letter on paper, and I hope it is not in our interest to bring a dead letter on paper, but a law to protect Croatian workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71714	The answer to the replica of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71715	Thank you, fellow Shuker, for this replica of yours. But obviously or you weren't in the hall when Sobol said in her reply to the replica that both human resources and financial resources were reserved through the financing of the current Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work and yes, there is Mrs. Marija Zavalić is the director of the Institute, people, so give a little, is funded from the budget there is, of course, a special item in the budget, but to respond to your replica, I am really the one who can repeatedly suffer someone's mistake but I will continue to believe because 2003 was first formed by the Institute, of course on the basis of that institution and let's say guidelines and suggestions is a separate insurance for injuries to work to happen after the process of shutting down the institutions and shutting down the insurance office. I am now only advocating and supporting in front of HSU the reverse process, the process of creation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71716	Branko the Hill of Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71717	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. You said that in the past 11 years, you had not experienced that either employers or workers were particularly screaming at the existing law. I agree with one big, large part of your debate and, of course, that it's okay and it's true but maybe they didn't scream, maybe they didn't scream, maybe they didn't publicly protest, but I also have to tell you from practice and from experience that I've met very often with the problems of implementing the Labour Protection Act, that the inspectors were chasing the employers so very harshly, that there was an immediate punishment, that there was no warning or giving maybe some short notice to remove itself rather than punishment, punishment, and that many employers were especially the smaller ones and those who are legal, who have a board on a construction site or somewhere else that they said very often, I'm tired of everything, I'm going to close the firm, I'm going to start working on black because then I won't have any more inspectors to catch me. And in this part of the law in this first reading, maybe what you said shouldn't all be paid the same, not only should it be absolutely correct, but it should be seen how to enable employers not to create a new cost with all these educations needed but to help the economy and workers in this way, to provide the state with a model that will educate people, which workers will be educated, which employers will educate and then show that we have a real will to do something and that then this law makes sense at all because at this point in which the Croatian state is this law and realistically looking and it doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71718	Replication response, Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71719	I would agree in the work of your replica with you and in the work I would not, because all obligations of training of workers, training of labour protection commissioners and protection experts from the employer himself are in the current law. Just because it's a new law doesn't mean it doesn't exist. There is, and I said, in my presentation in front of the club that if we hadn't passed this law to stay with the existing law, nothing traumatic would have happened, we wouldn't have a work protection office or to improve protection at work, depends on what we call it. And this, we wouldn't have it safe because it doesn't exist in laws, but all these other institutes, all the pieces that make protection at work would have. Of course, we can be proud of how we've set up the system, and we can't, or we can't be proud of the action of each of the actors in that system. Neither all the commissioners were commissioners or all the employers were employers right, and certainly not the inspectors, and perhaps not the doctors of the medical work, the specialists of the medical work. Let each one of his professions evaluate it, but it is a fact that you are right to have more preventive action. This is also the findings of the International Labour Organisation Inspector for Croatia who says that more preventive action and counselling and employers and experts on protection at work and counseling of labour protection commissioners by labour inspectors are needed, which means that they should really be experts in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71720	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71721	Thank you very much. Comrade Hrelj, you spoke of protection at work, protection against injury and health at work. I'd just like to supplement something. When it comes to the protection of health at work, it should be borne in mind that the quality of life depends mostly on the conditions of quality of work because in Croatia it is far away as the issue of health protection made a step in the ban on smoking. And what was done after that? We love each other when the law is explained to throw the thesis, we've graduated from flosculing, but none of them have an analysis that precedes any finding or weight. Did anyone, for example, analyze the condition, the state of the pensioner after leaving, after the termination of his employment? What is the situation compared to EU workers when they retire? It can be said that it is incomparable. The EU's pensioners come to us in the 1990s, they look around, and our pensioners after everything they've been through and mobbing, there's no man who hasn't been fired several times, there's no one who hasn't experienced harassment, it's very rare, there's no one who didn't have to do anything he shouldn't do, carried a job at home, a radio overtime, undeclared radio. Well, of course he's exposed to seizures and health collapse. And most often there's no analysis of what the condition of today was, like 20 years ago, comparisons that are now more, which were earlier, there's nothing. But what's most important, the worker while he's working out to be treated as a expense, is that when he's trained like that, then in retirement he can't be healthy, very rarely, and at least he'll be treated. We're more of a cost to us and the government than an organization worker. The worker works and the worker produces, only we don't know if it's worse to be human, not work or work, not be human. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71722	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71723	Dear Marić, you have expanded the subject a little bit, but it is common in the Croatian Parliament, but one is the fact that we in general, I will answer you in general, generally very little from our good practice, that we prefer the policy of discontinuity than the policy of continuity, and in this area that is very precise, therefore very precise with all aspects, legislative, technical, health, and also in part of the participation of workers is very modern and well-conceived, it would be worth any amendments and addition of the law, not only think about this and all of the previous ones, give a lot of analysis to see what is good, which is not good and what is not good to improve, and what is bad to change. In that part, we agree, but regarding the pensioners, you know those whose pension is something planned and who have been preparing for retirement, they are much easier to face the start of retirement days than those who have to retire because of their termination and analysis also show that they are more prone to disease than those who wanted a solution for which they have been prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71724	Vice President Zeljko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71725	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Hrelja, I agree with part of your exposure, with someone I can't agree with. I certainly agree with what you said and it absolutely states that nothing would happen if the old Labour Act remained and despite the good intentions of the ministry that it is trying to do, here's every so much with some laws to solve certain things, of course it doesn't solve that essential problem, and the fundamental problem is the complete dysfunction of the Croatian economy, the essential problem is the enormous number of unemployed, etc., etc. But when we talk about this law, then I can't agree with you that it's not good, and that exists in the current law, so the ban on drinking alcohol, smoking in the workplace, etc., I think it's a good thing that's left. What has not been good so far, there has been no law enforcement, no control over it at all, and that is the problem. The problem is often with our laws, which are not so bad if they are constantly changed, with dramatic speed creating in many areas one legal uncertainty, the problem is not to implement what we have. The best example is that there are various bizarreities that I hope this law or sublegal acts that will follow can be corrected. For example, here I come from KBC Zagreb's largest health institution in Croatia with 5300 employees who can't, even though they have all possible professions, can't do their own medical examinations, which is just funny. On the other hand, it is funny to charge a number of huge penalties continuously for the institution itself and for the head of the institution almost every two to three weeks for, say, someone who goes to work with his foot and then finds out that he has not passed training for work in a safe way, which is total bizarreness and that I have nothing to do with anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71726	Thank you. The answer to the replica of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71727	My dear Vice President, I'm very pleased and we could talk a lot about this. Namely, I've been here for 11 years, and I remember very well when your club suggested 00, so your club said there's so much in the air in certain parts of Zagorje, that 0.5 is in the air not 00, impossible 00, and then after a while we changed it and ended up with 0.5 with exceptions for professionals, etc. So all these procedures I remember. I didn't agree then or agree today that we're setting intolerant limits because life isn't cut off and there's no tolerance. At the same time, you can drive a boat with 0.5, you can drive a boat so you can suck it down the Italian. What's the problem? I'm talking about the inconsistency of our laws. Of course nothing would have happened in that respect, because even now, there was an absolute ban on alcohol consumption, and you're right when you ask the question, we're doing it and we're controlling it. But she's right, maybe she didn't say well to a colleague of Vanja Posavac when she mentioned a drinking culture, we don't do anything in the drinking culture because on the one hand we say that wine and beer are in small quantities of food and all European countries have agreed to it and have in their cafeterias both, and we've remained on the drinking culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71728	And Gordana Sobol, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71729	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Hrelj, you have performed so resolutely and said you will not give up on your request regarding these spills. I'm not a fan of such a resolution, but I still do, and I'll bet that as a club, we don't support any increase to 0.5 of the promiscuity, so maybe we could say, and why don't we adapt the Road Safety Act tomorrow and bring it into line with the adopted future Labour Protection Act. I don't think this issue needs to be aligned with any law. In addition, at the end of last year, it was held in a week of security, so in a week that talked about safety at work in the month, so data was presented last year. In the EU, 25% of all accidents have been caused by drug and alcohol abuse. That's the facts. The round table was also attended by experts, representatives of different institutions from Croatia who warned about drug abuse and alcohol abuse when it comes to both workers and employees in their jobs. So I think we should listen to that, too. In addition, I went to examine all possible objections that came to this law. I also found this from the union no matter what they didn't send us, the only one who advocates amending this provision of the law is Mr. Fran Marovic. He is one of our safety experts at work, independent as far as I know, but only he, even trade unions among others Krešimir North participated in the work of this round table last year at the end of 2013, where they supported the initiative of every possible fight and support against drug and alcohol abuse at the workplace. I personally believe that, among other things, this proposal 00 has passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71730	Thank you. The answer to the replica of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71731	Again, distinguished fellow Sobol to the provisions of the existing law. You have an absolute ban without 0.5, it can stay like this or 00 can stay like this, we don't have to mention 00. And secondly, we understand each other, tell me where and when someone in which the firm has conducted an investigation of the means of addiction. We're just getting started on traffic. So again we're talking about things worth killing for one, and the other one's going to work for me with a spinning machine. So we have one approach that's not equal to any means that raises the risk of injury. So here we can confidently know what's tolerable, and in the case of intoxicating drugs, we absolutely know nothing about what's tolerable. And here the reliable encyclopaedic medicine says what's tolerable. Of course, it depends on the resistance of each organism, and that's why they set it up to 0.5. They didn't put any English up to 0.8. But there's one more thing I gotta tell you, I know bats in a glass factory drink 10 beers in shift, man. They have to have something in them. If they drink water, they'll die. Ten beers drink and work normally, work. What were we supposed to do, send them all home? I'm telling you seriously, people, I have real life experience, so I don't have theory experience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71732	I won't comment on anything. On behalf of the Club, HRS representative counterpart Petar Cobanković, Baranovic, excuse me. Excuse me. Peter Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71733	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister with an associate, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen. It is good that after this stressful morning we smile a little in the Croatian Parliament because in some elements this debate is and at some point this morning it was really stressful, it should have lasted. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, several of our fundamental observations and comments when it comes to this law are very important because when you pass a law that has an impact on safety and prevention against people, when you pass a law that depends on whether life is lost or not, when it is only one life, it is important enough, let alone when it comes to hundreds of people's lives that are lost in the workplace even in the best regulated systems with the best legal frameworks. In his presentation, only Mr. Minister mentioned a figure in some measurable period of 700 and some lost lives at the workplace. He also mentioned the number of days lost from 13 million working days, and I immediately turned it into millions of hours of work, so we got to the three-digit million hours of work. So if we went to hit it with the value of one working hour the one paid to the worker and the one which the worker performs by doing his job then we would see that this law has both very measurable and very important effects on the efficiency of the economy and on the overall state of society, society as a whole. Previous '96 law. In the year, he experienced 7 novels that show that life simply gave the need to align with the news that arises with changes in circumstances in the performance of different professions and jobs. And that's normal, the world goes on, things change. Various legal, political, social assumptions, technical assumptions are being changed in the performance of the work. And today we have come into a situation that needs to pass a new law, what is good for us in the Croatian People's Party is that one of these laws is passed in normal procedure, so we have first reading, second reading. And it would be good if, after this first debate, we really had a very serious approach to grinding and making proposals in good faith to grind in the finale and define a real document that would have very few Achilles heeles. Because I stress again on behalf of the CNS it includes a very important area for the citizens of this country. He foresees several solutions that are very good for us, giving workers the possibility of a commissioner who in a certain way has guaranteed autonomy in doing his job, very much like protecting the position and position of the union commissioner. Given the importance of the protection of workers at work, the Commissioner on our thinking, as well as my personal work protection commissioner, is as important as the union commissioner. And we welcome that solution. And this law has one element that is very similar to one element embedded in the law that I defended in the name of the Croatian People's Party Club yesterday. He gives the so-called chance. yellow card. Therefore, it prescribes very detailed ten chapters from the general provisions, from the terms and conditions to the transitional, final and criminal provisions, in those 10 chapters, chapters, chapters, he elaborates on the obligations and rights of workers, the obligations of employers, the manner of supervision, the establishment of new bodies, or institutions. But what we welcome is a new approach to provide a warning or a yellow card for easier violations of this law and not straight-up beating and hitting on the pocket. Because in this context, as well as in all other employers and craftsmen, money and sanctions have been imposed without flexibility. What you would also comment on and what we keep positive is a prominent note of prevention in this law. And in sublegal implementing acts that are much more important in practice, in everyday practice and law enforcement, attention should be paid and emphasised on that prevention line in all segments of the functioning of this law. Because if prevention gets its result, then that's the real result. What happens after the damage, any physical damage, whether you give God a loss of life, everything that follows later, the coincidence doesn't bring anyone back from that world, they can serve only educationally. It is very important that we have addressed it as a society and that the legislator sets out from this law in the category of special law, the Law on mobbing. This is something that has become very common and is one of the most difficult forms for workers to be exposed to, harmful forms of action to which workers can be exposed and we believe that the Mobing Law has its meaning and as a club of HNS we support this idea. As for the stress that is also apostrophealed as particularly difficult in this law, I can say from my personal experience that stress is much worse than any other or many other harmful influences and to the cold, both from vibrations and from noise and from rolling and from sleeplessness. Stress is a special type of burden because we too in this assembly are sometimes exposed to stress during the debate, so when you feel it then you can appreciate what it is stress and you have a lot of understanding to fight stress. There was a debate that finally, to conclude, caused and here's a little better and brighter mood, about the issue of alcohol at work. There are specificities and there are some illogicalities that simply cannot be understood today as a parliamentary representative that society and the system have failed to introduce order in some areas. From my personal experience as the master of a fishing vessel I have never experienced in 20 years that during a routine examination, whether carried out by the employees of the Ministry of Interior, the Maritime Police, the Captain, no one in 20 years at sea has asked us to undergo an alcohol test, and we perform and perform one of the most difficult according to UN studies and all studies, the work of a professional fisherman is the most difficult activity in the world known. They are exposed to dangers, but no one has ever made an alcotest and has ever been for the commanders of fishing vessels and crew members in fact or seems to have clearly prescribed measures to which you can drink or cannot drink. Of course, there should be no greater Catholic than the pope and should not go to other extremes so that they do not respect the specificities of certain professions in which, for example, people are separated for days, isolated in their workplace, such as the crew of fishing boats, so it is not to be expected and it would not be normal for people to not be able to drink one beer a day behind lunch or a glass of wine. Therefore, when implementing acts are subject to reference to this law then it is important to take into account what real life requires, which can be made flexible, applicable, logical, rational, and not significantly affected by the basic intensities of this law and that it does not significantly deviate from what the legislator wanted to achieve. However, in this interregnum between the first and second readings, the HNS club will certainly be open to suggestions from different stakeholders, professional groups, institutions. We believe that this is a very important law, and we also believe that it will be an extremely important quality and extent of the sublegal implementing acts adopted because they will solve things on the ground in life.... The law is still a basic document. The HNS Club supports this so far as it's written in the first reading and in the second reading we'll finally be manifested. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71734	Thank you, colleague Baranovic. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71735	Dear colleague Baranovic, you were looking for Achilles's heel in this law and obviously you didn't find it. But I will also point out to you, and of course to the Minister, which is Achilles' fifth law. When you look at the transitional and final provisions of this law that contain all 53 regulations that regulate the field of protection at work, then you see what Achilles' heel is. For these transitional and final provisions of the law, they are literally legal wonders. Namely, you have 15 regulations that apply until this law is passed, until new regulations are passed, and they only apply in those parts that are not contrary to this new law. Then you have the next group, so it's the new 17 regulations that will only apply if they're not contrary to the new law. Then you have 15 regulations again that will cease to apply when the new 17 regulations are passed. For such reading of transitional executive provisions, it is indeed necessary to issue and print a special guide and to suggest that this transitional and final provision be made up to another reading. It'll be very awkward if someone has to assess what's in line with the law. Who's the one who's going to evaluate that? Are you going to be a judge when a working worker comes to him who's hurt at work and he's referring to a rule against the law? Who's going to assess what's in line, which parts of the rulebook are in accordance with the law. These are serious things and we can have perfect laws, but if these final provisions are written like this, then it'll all fall into the water where it's supposed to be, and it's on the protection of the worker himself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71736	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71737	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, you said what you think Achilles is the fifth of this law. I absolutely respect your need to distract the Minister of Ahil's heel and what you consider to be Achilles's heel, and the minister and his professional associates will pay attention to it or answer you and give you the final court whether he is or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71738	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71739	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Baranovic, I agree with you in the part where you talk about the importance of protection at work, of course, is a fundamental goal, above all, to preserve human lives. The second preservation of health, let's say, and improvement of health. But right away in that part, you were talking about stress, and we're in trouble right now. A short time ago, that analysis was published, where it was said that we spent 89 million on antidepressants, on drugs to calm 85 million kunas. That says enough for himself how much health is in this part of it that's damaged. I'm sure he's saying enough. But then you talked about the yellow charts and in principle we welcome of course the warning and the yellow charts, but I'm going to talk again about that population that I'm talking about all the time. You expected it, and it's farmers. They get a red card right away. This is if we are to speak according to this article in 45 and article 46, which speaks to the processing site of a dangerous chemical. If we're just gonna mention these pesticides that I was talking about today. If that farmer of mine doesn't finish his handiwork education and doesn't open a space for those dangerous chemicals, the pesticides don't immediately create a red card. Whatever we call him, he can't work and he's in big trouble. The second thing if he doesn't pay for example remains 500 kuna due, immediately blocks him, immediately again red card. You know, the people are full of these red charts. You are in power, so make a chart of a nicer color so that the people may rejoice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71740	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71741	Thank you very much. Comrade Milinkovic, here we are going to propose an orange from the CNS. That's our color. Let's do it in a row. You were talking about pesticides. I think, and I think you should agree that unprofessional handling of pesticides is something that may be... It can be deadly and it is not good to put it in the same context, as this law does not provide for a yellow card for all violations of the law but for a lighter, milder, not jeopardising the safety and health of workers to such a extent that it would not be possible to give a certain deadline for removing what the remarks are. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And as for the stress, you said how much antidepressants and medicines are spent. I've never taken anything but a pill at sea. I haven't thank God for these two years yet, but I have to tell you, I'm slowly coming to that stage to think. Because the late Supek wrote in his tetralogy about bonded debaters. I don't think I'm gonna be a Supek so I'm gonna write theaterology, but I might throw something at the paper before the end of my life, and then I'm gonna write about bond replicants. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71742	Gold shower, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71743	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Baranovic, I agree with you when you say that prevention is the best protection and in that part I support you. But knowing the situation we have in our country, and I was saying that somewhere there are about 104 thousand legal entities that employ 300,000 employees, up to 20 workers who work there. And bearing in mind that somewhere in 2012 9500 supervision of the labour inspection was carried out and that the basis of this was established somewhere and 1177 convictions where certain employers were punished. Now, prevention would make sense in a way that labour inspectors can be effective, that they can cover a significant number of legal entities, that they can carry out surveillance. Then that would make sense. This is how it is today in the Government of the Ministry of Labour, among other things, which says that somewhere 277 inspectors should be in the territory of Croatia that would monitor and protect labour and violate labour rights. I'm afraid it's still a long time ago that we'll be able to do what you said, and in any case, I would support that part if there were minor violations of the rules of protection at work and that we only had warnings and that it was only a prevention without that drastic punishment. But I'm afraid we're still far from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71744	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71745	Dear fellow Members, if you have noticed when it comes to prevention, this Law provides and stresses one dimension so far, I do not know whether it has been present in the work and inspection that is not only there to act repressively and punish, but also whether it is mandatory for the employer and those involved in agreeing on a work protection system at a given workplace to be available and advisory. It has an obligation to act advisoryly, to propose and order removals. So, I estimate that this law has this line, a very prominent line of prevention which is actually the first sense of protection at work because everything that I stress that happens beyond what happens is ultimately not a good thing. And when you have the most devastating consequence of missing measures, non-compliance with regulations and principles, then everything that follows later in the context of sanctioning and punishing does not have any real effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71746	And Vice President Zeljko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71747	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, dear colleague Baranovic, you mentioned stress. It is, of course, one problem, but I must draw attention to you that stress is very difficult to define correctly, explicitly define. And I'm afraid that he's going to stay dead too, like one beautiful intention in this text of the bill's proposal, and I think that this should be pointed out, there are actually three serious problems, and one of these is and we've already talked about that, that its adoption is really not going to change, or that this bill of law is in the debate so that nothing would happen. Another problem is the fact that a huge number of sublegal acts are envisaged, some of which will partially apply, some will not apply at all, some only in some segments will apply, etc., and will again create a huge legal uncertainty that will last for some time, a series of confusions, etc. and finally perhaps the most important of the third, and that is that there are no means to implement this law at all, as well as for a number of other laws that we have discussed, and in orderly voted your votes, are not actually provided with the funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71748	Thank you very much. Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71749	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'm not a financial partner, Reiner, but I know from experience in life that nothing works on air, everything goes on steam or fuel or anything like that. I doubt anyone ever wrote a law that doesn't have the means. How and how they were seduced accountingly, I wouldn't engage in it. As far as the number of implementing acts is concerned, it is an iconic law such as this, but this is indeed a law that is important and touches all professions of which each has its own specificity and it would be impossible to put all the specificities of the professions to be covered by this law, through implementing acts sabotaging in three, four regulations, almost every profession deserves one rule, for example my fishing can not be placed in the exact same rule of law as working in an office and working on a fishing vessel or working in a railway or operating in an industrial drive, in a field etc., etc. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71750	On behalf of the Club of Representatives, independent representative of Jadranka Kosor and HGS colleague Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71751	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President, Mr. Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. A few very concrete remarks. I assume, Mr. Secretary, you'll consider them until the second reading. So, it's a good thing this law didn't go to emergency procedures, it's good that we'll have time and I believe you'll respect the specific remarks made in this debate to get a solid law that we're talking about. I think it's good to see in the law that the intensity of prevention is much more specific, but to the final appearance of the law, I think that those prevention provisions should also be squeezed, that they must be much more concrete and much more specific, so I'm going to try and specifically talk about it with a note that I made in one of the replicas that the explanation is not adequate to what the law actually wants to achieve. So it continues to point out that in one part, the reasoning of the law is contradictory because it's about a whole new law and then it's actually already on the other page saying that it's actually an old law that's going to be done. Similarly, we read in the explanation that the law is in line, that the law will be fully in line with the Council Directive and with the 19 individual directives, and then it is clearly stated in Article 1 above that it is only five directives. So, I suggest that until the second reading, it means that the Government or the Ministry determines how many directives are actually done with what we agree on in this law, of course, because there is a law that is in force today. As I said I would be completely specific, so I'm going to move on to concrete articles of this law. Minister Mrsic told us at the beginning that the law is changing and modernising, so this will be contemporary answers for a moment, to life in Croatia. However, I deny it by stating that Article 3 continues this law, and it clearly does not refer to household service, does not refer to housewives first and foremost. So, in that sense, it's an existing provision, it's just being transmitted, I think it needs to be harmonised because it's mostly discriminatory with women and housekeepers, domestic servants are mostly women, and women who are very often, I think, and each of the women who doesn't have a housekeeper, so who does these housework in the house knows how much she's out of constant dangers, a lot of accidents happen as we know in the kitchen, a lot of fractures, burns, etc., are happening right in the kitchen. Therefore, these risks are threatened by both domestic and domestic servants, and I think that this law should be absolutely and adequately applied to them, because both the family or the person seeking home service is also an employer who should protect his worker or his worker in the workplace and, of course, I call on the provisions of the European Parliament's resolution of 2011 concerning the International Labour Organisation Convention and the decision of the EU Council of 2013 authorising Member States to ratify that Convention. So, a concrete proposal, please consider until the second reading so that the provisions of this law apply to the household service. As for Articles 7 and 6, 7 and 8, I'm sorry, it says here that awards can be awarded and when the National Work Protection Day is marked, I don't think such articles have any particular place in the laws, but if the legislator insists, then I think they belong at the very end of the law, so maybe somewhere in the transitional final provisions. When I mention the transitional and final provisions, I agree that they are, that transitional and final provisions make the law in some parts inconclusive, hence transitional and final provisions in which we need a legal expert or certainly a guide who will guide us in order to interpret certain sublaws, coordinate, see in which relationship, in which correlation with the law, is not a good sign and this is not a good way, and I believe that something further will be done until the second reading in that sense. I personally warn my colleagues and colleagues, it seems to me that so far no one has spoken of it, in Article 2 and in paragraphs 21, 22, 31. This refers to women, workers, so those who are pregnant, those who have given birth, those who are breastfeeding children, but the explanation that this category of women belongs to that category, the reasons are also unmistakable and arguments are also contradictory in some segments, but they are still discriminatory. I'll read to you, so the nurse who nurses the child is a worker, the mother of the child until the age of 1 of the child's life, who is breast-feeding, who has informed the employer of this condition. It's not a state, it's a fact, it's a woman's right, it's a normal state, so I suggest, it's a formulation that, with everything else, is not in the spirit of the Croatian language, and then I suggest that it be crushed and that it changes, if there's any need I can help. A worker who recently gave birth to a woman whose birth has not been more than six months since she again informed of her condition through the employer’s written form. The question is what if a worker does not know about this obligation and does not notify the employer's written path, can he exercise his right to do so? But again it's about a condition, so it's like it's an abnormal thing, like it's a special condition that needs to be further explained now. And then a pregnant worker is a worker who informs the employer in writing about her pregnancy condition. The question is, what if he doesn't notify him? Should an 8-month-old pregnant woman be specifically informed by her employer in order to meet all the conditions for protection at work that the legislator must provide, or must ultimately be provided by an employer? So, I suggest that a pregnant worker, that the formulation be a pregnant worker because a worker who is o, not about her pregnancy but about pregnancy if she already has to inform the employer, so that's the same thing that I think needs to be brought into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which further and in a special way protects the family, children, motherhood and youth. The stress of the work was a lot of words, so in Article 51, paragraph 4 seems to me to be very, very difficult to implement because it is generally for example. talks about the feeling of impotence, for example, if we were to remain only on how the employer, the feeling of being unable to prevent or remove when many people in Croatia today feel exactly that and that is what is most frustrating, that is what causes the greatest stress, the feeling of impotence, the feeling that you can't change anything, that you can't influence anything, especially among those who have lost their jobs or are afraid to lose their jobs. So social pressures are also mentioned here and social pressures. It is something that is very, very difficult to define what all of these would be and in order for the employer to oppose it, so I suggest in the interest of the possibility of the law really being consistently applied, that it be consistently implemented, that it be removed or further explained. Article 69 relating to the obligation to cooperate, so paragraph 4, the worker has the right to refuse to work and leave his place of work if he is directly threatened with the risk to life and health due to failure to apply the rules of protection at work. So, the directive says something else, and I think this article, that is, disagrees with the directive that says that the worker has the right to leave the workplace in the event of serious direct and inevitable dangers. Therefore, the Directive does not require workers to be exposed to the workplace and to expose themselves to the extreme limits to the consequences of health or mortality, so I think that this is the particular paragraph 4 of this article, first and foremost, in line with the directive. It is necessary to do everything to protect the worker, but it does not have to suffer and the pressure or danger until it is truly lost. So that should be repeated in line with the directive. And about the so-called article 58th banning the use of addiction funds. I join all and those who support this provision that a job worker must have 0.0 of alcohol in the blood, so that any use of alcoholic beverages, alcohol in the workplace is prohibited. Because it's dangerous, because it's socially dangerous because a drunk worker or a drunk worker can do a lot of damage to his health but endanger others and other colleagues and other employees. So let's be more consistent here what we talked about recently when we talked about the report on all our documents in preventing addiction. Dependence on alcohol, so I'm talking here and about other addictions, a working man can't be drugged, he can't be alcoholized, he needs to strictly and consistently implement the smoking ban provisions that's something that's normal and notorious, but that's also the day that a lot of people break because in many of the workplaces still smoke and everyone somehow tolerates it. However, alcohol can be fatal not only for the drinker but also for those who are co-workers of that worker. I therefore welcome this provision and suggest that it does not change in any way despite the pressures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71752	Now we'll hear the replicas. Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71753	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Your Honor, Madam Representative, I agree with everything you've said and perhaps I'd just like two more concrete supplements because you encouraged me with very concrete remarks. One is related to the assessment of the condition. I think it would be good to supplement the data assessment, with data on the number and type of work injuries and the costs that are given for it because it would be one very important excuse to say so for a whole series of what is further in the law. Second, it may be the same supplement or note that it would be good to prescribe in Article 22 if an employer who makes it impossible for an expert to fulfil his obligations does so in what way he will be responsible for it. It's usually a problem in a whole series of our laws that sometimes very well-intentioned things prevents things from happening at all, but then it's not actually implemented at all because there's no sanctions in the part where the sanctions are to be indicated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71754	The answer to the replica of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71755	In the second reading, there will no longer be an assessment of the situation nor will there be any particular explanation, but I agree that all relevant facts on which such a matter should be rested and in certain segments a particularly subtle law should be used until the second reading and then, of course, install them as the mechanisms of law in the second final reading of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71756	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71757	Dear colleagues, Kosor, I do not want to talk about the assessment of the situation but about those conditions that you spoke about in the second article. You're absolutely right you're absolutely right. Women are constantly in some other state not in the most normal state, you were essentially saying things. What's this about? It is illiterately incomprehensible and logically wrong and discriminatory quite certainly. But here, when a round sentence is spoken and a broken sentence is spoken then it is said that the Parliament is not a lateral group so that it is spoken nicely, as counterpart Marin Jurjevic says, who is bothered by a nice sentence, so probably the legislator is bothered by a beautiful, smart, accurate sentence that will not discriminate against any sex. And this is about 10:00 a.m., and I totally agree with Mr. Hreja. I'd ask you now if it's a little bit on your side either, I won't say discriminatory, if you've ever on plus 30 or plus 35 mixed concrete with a shovel, driven by cariolo 100m, 20% uphill, I haven't seen any more builders who didn't drink but that's reality. Normally, the law should say 00, but let's not be horrified and close our eyes like we're living under a glass bell. It's a reality. These people are just, they're not drunks, so we know, they're not drunks, it's reality. Look in the building. You should write in law and normally you should propagate anti-alcoholism, not alcoholism. But let's not close our eyes, there are some professions in which it is tolerated and will always be tolerated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71758	That's not exactly the kind of person you should be representing. The answer to the replica of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71759	I have never driven a heavy truck, I admit it, so up the hill, the carioli is that, yes, we didn't understand each other, the carioli was absolutely and I was working on a mixer and I didn't drink any beer, but I've also seen a lot of times on construction sites and I believe you, as well as on the construction of highways etc. I saw the pictures next, so in the middle of the day, five guys sit around drinking beer, and one guy's got a shovel he's lying on, and one guy's probably doing something. So we have to do more definitely will contribute to this if we stop drinking in the workplace and from the Croatian Parliament to of course every workshop. And I don't think water is harmful, you should drink water. It's better to drink three liters of water than three liters of beer, certainly, that's for sure. But I'm going back to these parts of the law that I was talking about where it's really discriminatory about the state of women, so pregnancy, breast-feeding, mothers that work after six months, after they've been born because in these shaped parts of the law, it seems like they're some kind of abnormal states. A condition that a woman, with everything else, must be particularly informed by the employer. I understand the intensity, so the employer needs to know that a woman has to have a breast-feeding break but it has to be said differently. Because men never inform employers about these special conditions. So these aren't some special condition, these are normal states where women are and make them as many as possible and let the employers support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71760	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71761	My colleagues, yes, exactly what you said in your discussion about the protection of women in her responsibilities, when she's pregnant or breast-feeding a child. As much as this bill is in line with the Council Directive and with the best outcome of the European Union, I agree with the fact that wife's biology cannot be her destiny. If it's not an advantage, there can be no flaw. If we evened out the age when we retire simply and the men who expect the child to be born must be in the same status and from the earliest age and simply force them, encourage them, I would say first in order to be with the child the same as the woman. And for me, it's an unacceptable situation that we still have that a woman has to be on maternity leave. Thus, a woman who can take care of her child while she is in a working relationship is punished, thus moving away from the world of work, has a lower salary, has a lower pension and has to work as well as a man. These are injustices that we must recognize in order to remove them in time. I agree with you, and I think you've noticed this well on the whole proposal, better protection, and that will certainly contribute to the very fact that the labour inspection will be in the ministry itself. And that's something that's promising. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71762	The answer to the replica of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71763	Thank you very much. So here's a couple of discussions about a few laws, or documents, and we're opening these discussions about equality between men and women in front of the law, and I agree here. I just think when it comes to women who have given birth, so women who are mothers at a certain time, I think it's important that the mother be with the child right now, that's what research has shown. But the remaining time, especially up to the year of the child, which is the second year of the child, would be very important, and I agree that fathers do not force them, but that it becomes something normal for them to be with the child, emotionally, in a different way, but to feel how difficult it is to worry from second to second to second. Because we know that most of the time fathers work, they have to be saved when the child pays and when the child needs to be fed, then the fathers go to another room, they sleep there so they don't get upset, it's a very common phenomenon, so all they have to do is do everything to get that division, especially with women who want to have something very positive that they want to have a career, which is successful at their job, managers, board members, and all the other people who want to have a career and want to be mothers to make it possible for them. Which means we're gonna have to change some other laws too.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71764	Silvano Hrelja, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71765	Dear colleagues, Kosor, we agree greatly on something that we agree on, which we agree on in the current Act on protection of labour that it is forbidden to consume alcohol and intoxicating drugs at the place of work, that is, the workplace and there is no dilemma. I think it can resuscitate that beer that I used to talk about with soft beer, sometimes it couldn't be substituted, but the question is whether it's good and very good to drink only water and what lasting consequences it has with a high furnace and everything else. So not every job is the same. But what we disagree on is the enrollment of 0.0 prominence. Why? Because tomorrow it will lead to discrimination against someone who happens to have 0.2 in his blood and has suffered a work injury. So in traffic it won't take any damage, here someone knowing us won't want to admit injury to work for 0.2 proms. So that's what I'm talking about all the time, and I'm not just talking about it because I'm talking about a drinking culture, I'm talking about the inaccuracy of the provision if we say it's 0.0 she's received at any point not to have any more change than that. It's a matter of proving later, because I know us, and some employer's gonna be so excited to tell you if I don't confess to your injury at work. So I say we tie it to the relevant provisions of the Road Safety Act where each case is treated differently. One is the criteria for a professional and one is for an amateur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71766	The answer to the replica of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71767	A colleague of the Khrel, listening, so I'm not the only one who said that I support this provision in the law. But if I could just analyze the debate so far and who's behind what I think it's actually about the way we look at it on the male and female sides. So somehow it seems to me that there were more colleagues who represented this position to greet 0.0 proms, and there were more colleagues who opposed it a little bit. It's probably because a lot of women, I guess we MPs know a little bit more, who suffer violence, know that it's the most common result of drinking. Yeah, that's right, yeah. However, I don’t know if there is any scientific research on whether drinking water instead of beer in some professions would be more useful. So I don't think there's any such research. And if the main goal and the main intensity of this law is prevention, then it's a good thing you can't drink in the workplace. ... It says yes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71768	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71769	So, colleague Kosor, a colleague of the Hreljas tried to explain that it was a matter of precision or inaccuracy of the provision. So under 0.5 of the blood alcohol spill is not considered to be drunk or drunk or any other condition. Therefore, the same provision should apply both to the worker and to the worker if it comes to traffic and traffic hazards. It's true that the law defined it. But what I'm thinking about right now, and that's a provision from the former government that you can't even have in traffic, so there was a rule of 0.0. That was your government where you were minister and your premium. And then in Slavonia, there was this Hungarian, "No one has what the Croat has, 0.0 from the Croatian government". So I really wouldn't want us to classify ourselves here as men and women or be discriminated against by women or men, so neither men. You can't go from men being discriminated against, you're for general equality. As for breastfeeding and what it says, as you stated in your presentation, I am completely in agreement, and well here I remember a long time ago when my mother was breast-feeding, but she wasn't busy so she didn't have to report to anyone. So she nursed her brother for three years. I don't know how long it would take an employer's tip in those three years to exercise some kind of rights, but here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71770	Replication response, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71771	Well, I'm glad we agree on something absolutely. And as for these 0 proms, so your replica actually showed that I'm right, we can do statistics on male and female looking at things, definitely. Because the 0 prominences you mention in that former traffic law, I thought back then, you said that I was a member of the government, yes, I thought that it was a good provision, because we have to gradually do everything to stop it, and I'm continuing to discuss yesterday's rakia and those who cheat on the state, so they're hiding the rakia like you did, in some sense. So not a drinking culture, it's not something that will promote us in the world, and it's not something we could be particularly proud of. Therefore, this bill is also going towards it. And I think comparing these two laws, so this current one that allows 0.5 and this Labour Protection Act is completely declassified because here in the day-to-day job, in every workplace, anyone who gets drunk can harm his and his colleagues' health.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71772	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71773	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. I think we're going the wrong way. Namely, the draft law on protection of work, and then next week will be the Labour Act, in fact, the Law on Use, not on Rab Island, but on the exploitation of our workers. So, this reverse path is inserted as some kind of intermezzo, some kind of interspace so that we can get to this Labour Act where I think there will be a lot of digers here in the Croatian Parliament, this proposal for a law on protection at work has been inserted even though many speakers have said that nothing will happen between the first and second readings, because there is a labour law that pretty much regulates, first and second readings. So no special effects or actions will change unless the second reading remains the provisions of the old, let's call it the Labour Act. Some time ago, Mr. Minister dealt with even prophecies and stated that the peak of unemployment would be reached in late February and that there would be about 400,000 unemployed at that time, and that prophecy and visibility were fully fulfilled. We have 10 days to settle these 400,000 unemployed in the state of Croatia. We're actually saying this, and what's main and what's to be solved, which has even promised Kukuriku coalition, mainly on some jumbo posters that I wouldn't quote right now, which is exactly employment, an increase in the number of employees. In addition, the Pension Funds Act that we discussed the other day and about filling the pension fund, about how to reduce the part that comes from the Republic of Croatia's budget, and about the pension payments of 16, 17 billion kunas that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia finance for the pension fund, has nothing to do with the ratio and application of this law, until the ratio between the number of employees and pensioners is changed in relation of two to one. That ratio is hardly to be met during this government, and it will take years and years to change that. The prevention we're talking about here on the Labour Protection Act, and when we have four hundred thousand unemployed, we might need to write some kind of health protection law for the unemployed because there are four hundred thousand of them. The use of both anxiety and antidepressants is mostly in that part of the population. And unemployment is the same ministry's concern. Therefore, the protection of the health of unemployed people who spend huge amounts of just these anxiety and antidepressants amounting to 180 million kuna is the last year's data. The prevention of this is not new employment, but I guess it is only to use the proposal to both the government and the minister of song or the title of the song Alexa Shantić "Stay here" because people are leaving. And I would prefer that any ministry could either be able or be able to tell young people something else, for example song A. B. Shimica verse first from a song called the Mention "Man, be careful not to go little under the stars." If we did so, we would think and work on it and not on some other things that happen to the current 8,000 phones, 1600 cars, ice TVs or the most modern in the paying agency and a number of other things that are being discovered, which will only be revealed then that would be different. If the government were to behave properly in the situation in which society is located, but there is a complete anesthesia in the translation of the insensitivity of that same government and those ministers who of these cars and those cars never seem to communicate with the people except when they may come to flooded areas and say it is not so terrible how terrible it is in Great Britain. That's terrible, that's terrible, that kind of statement is terrible. Now let's talk about this labor protection law. The law on protection at work has said its preventive part and the other part when the accident at work already occurs and the resolution of its consequences. My colleague Tušak said that in 2012, the inspectorate had if I was not mistaken over 9000 cases of which in 1180 identified irregularities in the employer. Trade unions also delivered their testimony to all of us in this law and said that in many provisions they agreed with employers, but that the government did not accept the agreement of employers and trade unions. See the interesting formulations? The government therefore also rules without respect for the opinion or agreement of the employer and the union of its provisions. The answer to such is, therefore, that many or some of the union leadership together with employers are making protection work towards some of their private interests. Now I'm going to ask you what kind of helmets the NATO Pact buys and whose are the best helmets in the world? Croatia. Croatia also buys those countries that are seriously referring to the quality of helmets from, and now the second question is how many helmets and constructions, how many construction firms and helmets are purchased from Croatian manufacturers. So it's good for the war, but it's not for the building. Interesting. To break through a NATO assault rifle that doesn't break through that helmet, it's good. But sometimes when you get hit on the head by a beam, it's not a good Croatian helmet, but it's getting out who knows how and in agreement with whom the employer and even the union leaders or the union commissioner for protection at work in the company itself. About the clothes, the clothes and everything that belongs to the protection equipment at work so I don't talk about Vartex, I'm sorry I'm advertising the company. And a number of others, our textile industry is crying out for work from domains, so trade and production in textile products. Many of our domestic companies, including private companies, have failed because of such agreements and talks between employers and some, I will not say the whole, union commissioners because they did not get a job but imports from some importers have again imported the unfortunate one who contributed to the fact that many of our manufacturers who could work in the production of equipment and clothing and clothing in relation to protection at work did not get a job. It's a prevention, about prevention. No one has talked about it here today, and how many of these cases are there and how many of our businessmen are doing low-accumulating work like textile production is going down. Or shoes. Look at Borovo! 70% is import parts, 30% are domestic so that Borovo can produce protection shoes for welders on ships, in Djura Djakovic, etc. Yeah, well, it could. But who gives them the job, who offers the job, nobody? They're buying Hong Kong, I don't know Thailand, ask God from whom, because they're asking for something to squint and supply and base themselves with some business contracts, etc. All of this is contained, and all of this has been touched in order to say Zagorje and this Labour Protection Act, all of this, as is the ecological component of waste classification, not garbage, wastes one very important economic category, and this Labour Protection Act can be a very important category in the segment of the production of protective equipment in the Republic of Croatia and giving jobs to domestic producers based on quality and everything else, there must be no secret or out of the procurement competition but here, I was talking about the Croatian helmet. Now here we were saying that, there's been a lot of talk from each one of his rakurs, from alcohol to brandy as Mrs. Kosor says, even though I don't think she's the one who's never had a glass and I know she is. So we talked about measurement and stress control. So, the measurement and stress control that causes about 16, where it's affected by the stress of 16% employees and 100% unemployed, so 400 thousand people and 16% employees, why? Third, friend and colleague Maric, why? Well, alone, the fact that someone is working for three months and there's a possibility that they can extend it, so in a man, it's worth three months whether or not they're going to extend it, whether they're going to satisfy their employer in terms of business obligations or not to satisfy it in their own sense. Whether he will pay him or wait for his salary, will he wait another year after the three months to pay him for the three months because the payout has been established in Croatia. A part - time job, a job at a certain and a number of other permitted shops in this society and the state that has been brought to this as far as it is clearly caused by stress. Ama should be found for the entire population or citizens how stressfully a mother lives who can't give five kunas for a bun to her child in the morning and how shaken she is and that child who goes to school without being able to eat a bun along the way. And here we are passing the law, the draft law on protection at work, and here we are going to do a little bit by the articles. There's no time, so we'll do it in replicas, so that article Mrs. Kosor was talking about, and in connection with women who provide services in the family, etc. In any case, it is one very good observation and should be arranged until this second reading. Pure peri, a woman who has had or is at that stage up to six months after birth, a woman who breast-feeds and so on. They should be particularly careful in the case, i.e. when there is a working relationship and when the employer should pay due attention mainly to the situation where Croatia in a complete demographic zero, i.e. in a demographic minus. They say, here's Article 5. The government appoints members of the National Council by a decision, of which three from the government, one from employers and one from the union, yes, but not to define who it will be, here's Mr. Hrelja as he said by interest of a safety engineer, once it was a protection at work, but now he has a different name of protection at work, is it also such experts as Mr. Hrelja, I would immediately suggest him to that National Council because man really knows a lot, not much he may have worked on that matter but apparently knows matter. There, so that it should be defined in its Article 5 to be exactly the experts in the field, from the knowledge of protection at work. Then we recorded some more articles and we'll talk about it, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71774	Thank you very much, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71775	I just got warmed up.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71776	We need a shorter introduction of colleagues and since there are nine replicas of them we will hear after the break. At 3 p.m., we'll hear replicas and answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71777	My colleagues and colleagues, we'll continue our work. We're moving on to replicas. The first is Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71778	Thank you. Comrade Grubisic, you said in your speech that Mr. Minister had propheticly announced 400 thousand unemployed. Well, I wouldn't agree if there was anything prophetic about it. This made it quite clear that it was possible to see after a year of the government that really brought a new approach to solving the problem of unemployment, which is to build up unemployment. They think they'll solve the unemployment problem by hoarding unemployment, creating new unemployed. So it is quite clear to you that already months ago that the number of 400,000 unemployed will be reached at the beginning of this year, more precisely somewhere in February or by mid-March, but what was prophetic in his speech then a few months ago was announced that Croatia would need several hundred thousand workers for employment, which was supposed to mean that by then all these unemployed would be employed. Of course, this projection was somewhere in 2040 or 2050 because our minister came in line with the visible Milan, and then he might get one show in some television, so he might explain how he sees Croatia's future in one 20, 30 years, but we need someone in Croatia today who will find solutions to the current problems that are indeed huge and which are unfortunately even more generated by the work of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71779	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71780	Thank you, colleague Matušić, for helping me in some way in the debate, I would not like to politicise, unfortunately things are too serious for us to put psychicism on the agenda and some esoteric emissions broadcast by commercial television. But the facts are sad and what I said in my debate that we should also think about protecting the rights of the unemployed, about protecting the rights of almost the entire household of the Republic of Croatia with not only mental pain and interference and spending large amounts of sedatives and antidepressants, so we became a country that spends antidepressants and anxiety in the largest quantities compared to the whole EU. Unfortunately, these sad facts are permanent and I really don't know how long it's gonna take, but here, I think there's still no way out at the end of the tunnel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71781	Replica Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71782	A colleague, most of his debate, or more than half of his time, has been used to talk about unemployment, their difficult position, the use of antidepressants, even though the debate on the Labour Protection Act is. However, I agree with this in view of the weight of the problem that we need to use every situation to talk about the problem, try together and solve it. However, just in the circumstances in which this law is passed, under the circumstances of high unemployment, so to speak of protection at work, these good measures mean, however, at that time, that the employer can easily reach the workers and do with them what he wants, that this ministry, or government, I hope, and all of us together will support this bill, that we will not allow it. That, with one tradition that we have had great protection of workers at work, we continue to apply all these new conventions, regulations and that one statistics that is quite favourable so far, but we still do not know whether it is out of fear that workers are not exactly reporting their injuries at work, so according to the available data from the annual report of the Inspectorate and the Office of the European Commission EUROSTAT, the following data have been extracted. Let's say that one worker in Croatia loses 0.5 working days due to injuries at work, in the EU 1.3. The number of injuries per thousand workers is 17.1 in the EU 50.3. Unfortunately, we have a 3.3 death case as much as in the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71783	The replica matches Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71784	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Ingrid, and you've actually kind of confirmed my thesis from my debate. I know that you know our experiences in self-government socialism as they looked and then it seems to me protection was, if not protection then the system was giving opportunities for, at various distances to the institutions for the protection of workers' rights, mainly when it comes to protection at work and I agree with that. But we know that today many employees, mostly at the store, go to work with both the flu and more serious diseases simply because of the fear of losing their jobs. What time did we get here? We know, for example. that teachers can't defend themselves if he's physically attacked by a student, he can't... raise his hand because this one's gonna sue him for, here's the raise of his hand to the student. Even when a teacher who has been beaten by her parents and a colleague is involved, another teacher to defend that teacher, gentle, fragile, so that she does not discriminate, and then he responds and gets fired, this second teacher who has stepped in the defense of the teacher. How far did we get? What kind of legislation is that? Who protects these teachers from attacks by students and parents who are growing in the Republic of Croatia, we have more and more examples of where there is a conflict between teachers, not conflicts, but attacks on teachers and parents against teachers. So they write a newspaper every day about it, and there's no protection at all. What is the protection at the work of teachers, teachers and teachers? Not at all. Where does that say in the law on that protection? It doesn't say. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71785	Replica, Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71786	Thank you, Vice President. You connected one good thing in your discussion, and this is a matter of production of protective equipment and protection at work in a way where you pointed to a problem that a lot of companies were particularly concerned with the textile industry and that part could produce protective equipment. Here it ended either in bankruptcy or failed, and on the other hand we had imports of these protective equipment. You mentioned helmets that are good for foreign customers, while in Croatia it is not good. But I'd just like to reach out to you, and clearly we've been taking a little bit more care and care probably wouldn't have this number of 385 thousand unemployed today. But another worse thing to do is just rely on your discussion was I had the opportunity to see that some of the public companies like HEP and some others, and I was convinced that when it came to the purchase of protective equipment at a much higher price than it was on the real market, and that equipment went over a few intermediaries, so the price hikes were all earned, and ultimately it was very much paid by consumers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71787	The replica matches Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71788	A colleague, Tušak, had never talked about it in previous club debates. I've tried to be constructive and useful and listen to our government's ministries about the advantages of the domestic protective equipment industry to say so, and that's both helmet and work clothes and shoes, etc. We also have Borovo and Vartex and the production of helmets that are good and NATO pacts, so NATO pact buys our helmets. And that through various smugglers, mediators and mutators, we are even involved in some of the union heads or commissioners in trade unions together with the employer where they are trying to get goods that are worse quality. But there's this magic in it, so there's money in the blur, and that's what's always burdening our society. If we had hired the capacities of both Vartex and Borov and others, we'd have fewer unemployed today. I say I tried to be constructive and useful.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71789	The next replica honours Gordan Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71790	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Grubisic, after your presentation, was actually a little hard to say by connecting the endings because you talked about a lot of issues in the context of the debate on this law, but I would still like to mention, among other things, unemployment and unemployment and the Ministry of Labour as responsible for caring about the unemployed. When we talk about this number, it is unemployed here and today we have 393 thousand 700 unemployed, but I think we here in this House should be able to read all those figures that we can get through the Croatian Employment Service. We're probably all this little bit every day when we look at these numbers and think about what that number does, how come there's one day 500 new ones at the office, a thousand new ones, all those who are out of a job somewhere because the employer's failed, because it's reduced the size of the job and stuff? It's not and it's supposed to be said and it needs to be emphasized, at least I think it's my responsibility. In 2013, we have an increase in the number of entries of the Employment Office and on the one hand, a greater number of those registered as unemployed as regular schooling are not obliged to do so. But due to active employment policies, and most of all because of the guarantee for young people last year over 8% had an increase in those who finished schooling. On the other hand, we also have an increased number of inactivity in the Employment Service so that different measures can be used to train these people in some way. On the other hand, last year, compared to 2012, 6% fell to unemployment due to business losses to the closure of the company and so on. I think we should make that clear and keep in mind when we talk about that number of unemployed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71791	Reply Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71792	Comrade Sobol, I don't want to get a warning, so I'm going to be in response to the replica relatively calm, flat, and I'm going to be able to make unobstructed arguments and facts. So do you think that our young people who graduated from school who wanted to help the ministry and did not go to the Employment Service to help this country, do you not want to apply here to make the number of unemployed smaller? Second, do you think the inactive population doesn't want to get a job, so because of the privilege of some, you have every privilege of applying to the Department of the Unemployed? Third, in this term, you yourself have wiped out thousands of unemployed by various kinds of rights that do not belong and do not go into the circle of those who are unemployed? Fourthly, every month I receive a report from the Croatian Employment Service Slavonski Brod on the movement of employees and unemployed in Brod-Posavina County and the town of Slavonski Brod. You can categorize those unemployed any way you want, but they're on the list of unemployed people. So it's an inevitable fact and it's impenetrable and you can't defend it this way because God forbid there's a transmission so these people can hear you and write you all kinds of messages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71793	A new replica of Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71794	Thank you very much. A colleague, Grubisic, can't have a man's reaction to such a disposed speech and debate. You were also talking about domestic production, which is not available, about the stress they experience at work. Well, stress is usually a reaction to unforeseen situations. And who can do this today in planned situations? There is no work organisation, there is no working environment without unforeseen situations. Often ignorance causes stress, ignorance of superiors leads to the terrible stress of subordinates who know the job. As far as your profession is concerned, it's all been brought in by a shift of shifts. How to protect yourself from such stress. How to protect people's health from reacting to such sudden changes. It hasn't worked for two months now. how to pre-chaste settlements. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there will be so much increased use and consumption of antidepressants that you spoke of triple. Imagine the state forcing entrepreneurs, craftsmen hundreds to write off a claim on which to pay taxes, so who wouldn't get sick under such conditions? So who's gonna stay healthy that you have to pay taxes on something that doesn't exist. You have to be in charge of paying taxes on what's not at all, says the state doesn't, it can't be. How many lawsuits will cause such a situation? Hundreds and thousands. And what does it mean to handle lawsuits and disputes under 10, 15 years? Ma needs to protect the health of workers and not just from injuries to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71795	Reply Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71796	I am a colleague of Marić's answer in some way if you can even answer such a question that simply outlines the currentity, what is current in the Republic of Croatia and very current and burning, hot question, it... Your replica. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, the stress experienced by doctors also by sending in the shift work that Ljubicicic and Vlahušić, gentlemen, excuse me, so that I don't get a warning again, so those who were trying to introduce shift work and saw that they couldn't do it with this number of doctors, so they went back. And they're always your doctors, actually your doctor's profession is exposed to that stress. And stress has no scale or instrument to measure, it's immeasurable. There's no way to control what he is and what he produced everything. It's not there. Unfortunately, that's what counts by passing all these laws together and on the work and on all this. The write-off of the claim. And misery and whatnot. I don't know what it means, but I think you know where you come from. So the one that stays in man after that, that bile that cooks leads to various psycho-organic diseases from ulcers on the stomach, heart attack,... And so on and [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we will have, despite all the protections at work and work, a large number of sick people as we already have those who suffer from depression and anxiety.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71797	Replica Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71798	Dear colleague Grubisic, I wouldn't answer, but since you initially proposed to me as a national council as an expert and then finally said that I was about to... The cold waters got drunk working as a safety engineer but I am obliged to tell you that I worked in shipbuilding for 8 years and that I am proud of every day of working in shipbuilding because I think there is something to say and work in the field of protection at work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I believe that even though you're a doctor whose dynamics as a doctor, I don't doubt or ask a question, I believe you'd be thrilled to see that ugly ship slip into the sea for once. And I'm proud of every time I've been a control body on the ship's sinking because it's a unique experience. I'd recommend anyone close to the shipyard when something like that happens to go see, so they'll appreciate more the work of the people who built that ugly place. I also saw a lot of experiments in protection at work and, among other things, in shipbuilding where we tried to force people who are welders at the job of welders to drink milk with beans with sausage because it's healthy for them. There's no scientific evidence that it's healthy. But milk was drunk in huge quantities, or it was carried home or thrown away because it was acidated than it was drunk. So I'm saying that going to extremes is not good in any direction or in what we discussed earlier with 0,0 promiscuity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71799	Reply Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71800	My colleague Hrelja, I listen carefully to every debate you have about working legislation, and on the basis of that, I have concluded that you are very professional in participating in the work of the National Council for the Implementation of Labour Protection Law. What you have, so you've said eight years of experience, it's completely irrelevant, here I can cross it right now. So you told me it's a big deal and that it's causing positive stress so euphoria when you see the ship slip off the locust, as it says, it persists in the sea. I hope you were best man once, so you broke a bottle of champagne on the boat's shell, no, that's too bad. So a drop of champagne comes to us and we've had a beer for lunch. But when it comes to milk and milk use for shipbuilding workers, you should have told Mr. Milinkovic, perhaps he is an expert in milk in this House. But in any case, this milk and the use of milk in our industry would certainly increase the production of milk and perhaps the milk producers would be in a much better position and milk factories, processors in the Republic of Croatia than they are now burned to these 500 million liters with a billion liters since 4-5 years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71801	Last line, Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71802	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic, I hate to replicate to my colleagues at the club, but I had to. In your presentation, you spoke about the number of 400,000 unemployed and the visible Minister Mrsic. In fact, we don't think like that at the club because today, 383 650 are unemployed. All macroeconomic indicators are negative and, looking at the work of this government and the work of this minister, we cannot conclude that they are psychic but that, in fact, they do not know what they are doing, that they are bad at running the Republic of Croatia. So they're not psychic, but at this point they're very incompetent, which is evidence of this particular number.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71803	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71804	Thank you very much. You did not add up my colleague Bubalo, Mirna Rovinj and 250 employees of Mirna Rovinj, and we have also witnessed the court rulings that Mirna goes bankrupt, and thus 250 employees of Mirna Rovinj. So there are more, and there is no more company in Slavonia that can go bankrupt except maybe Đura Đakovic, who has accumulated 65 million in debt for last year officially, and in some papers they say about 100 million kuna. If Djuro Djakovic goes into bankruptcy, then this figure that the minister so visibly prophetically said a few months ago, that the end of February will be the maximum point as we doctors say, the highest peak at the unemployment rate, exactly as he said 400,000 unemployed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71805	Now we can continue the debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Ivan Shuker will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71806	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So there is a law before us that when we look at its area of action then we can say that it is very broad, but to be honest with the old law, you ask yourself the question of what we get with the new laws and whether in conditions when we have 383 000 unemployed, when the situation in the economy is what it is like, when the structure of the Croatian economy is unfortunately the way it is, whether many of the provisions and those to which these provisions will apply, will they insist that these provisions apply to them or they will unfortunately be happy to have a job and that they can get what kind of pay is paid somewhere half a month and that they can feed themselves and their family. So it just doesn't matter what law is passed, it's very important in what environment, in what conditions this law applies because I simply can't ask one rhetorical question here that we can put in any of these three laws that we're going to discuss, starting with the Labour Act. My colleagues and colleagues, how to protect the work of pregnant women who started working and who get fired in the 6th or 8th month, and we're talking about the most intelligent policy, we're talking about how old a nation is, but simply neither this law nor the Labour Act, we'll say it's freedom of the market. Yeah, the freedom of the market, just how we're gonna get young couples or whatever you want to say, they have kids, it's not pleasant for a young woman when in the 6th or 8th month the employer tells her we're breaking up with you, so when you get through the first 6 months of maternity leave, you've been good, maybe you'll get a job. If anyone is asked a question like that, you can say whatever you want to, you have hundreds of such cases, and we as parliamentary representatives here simply have to say it for the truth and for the honesty because unfortunately we're moving among such people and that's the fact. But unfortunately, neither in this law nor in the Labour Act do we have it. I'm just saying one example that's eclectic, unfortunately. You can think of a woman in five, six, seven months of pregnancy without a job and doesn't know what's going to happen tomorrow, and they're in some kind of loan or something. And to be clear, what I'm saying has nothing to do with any political option. It's unfortunately been happening all these years since we entered the so-called. Market economy. That's a fact. Now let's get back to the law. So, I said that in a situation where we have 380 000 unemployed, when people are happy to get a job, then we have principled levels of reasons why this law is passed and then when you read a little bit better, so he tells you the basic goal of this law is to reduce the number of injuries to work and occupational diseases. Furthermore, with a view to ensuring a easier, simpler understanding of the law and its implementing rules, while respecting that protection at work is an integral part of all work. Also, the current law lacks provisions on measures and protection of workers on psychosocial risks and psychophysiological efforts at work, stress, monotons of jobs, normised work, etc. And now we're coming up with something on page 4 that I've been trying to point out all day in this House of Commons, but out of misunderstanding or not right now, forgive me for saying, not knowing how some things work and there's something else all the time, and that's the Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work. Yes, it is something that exists at this time, but you also had 117, 118 people who worked at the same Croatian Institute, who were worried about collecting 0.5% of the contributions paid to gross wages by all employers per employee, and on the basis of this, 650 million kuna was accumulated annually and it was clear why these funds were used. So, to pay off the illness due to work injury, for the treatment of professional diseases, etc. And a total of 400 per year from that fund was spent, about 400, 450 million kuna, 200 million left. Why am I saying that? Well, because at some point in time some of the health care issues have come to mind that this should be united, because health care is always short of money, so this 200, 250 million will come in handy. At the same time, however, the Croatian Institute for Health Protection and Safety at Work remained. And now look at my colleagues and colleagues for what I'm saying. Well, because this law says that some of the people in that office are going to move into a new institution, and that seems to me to be why we're changing this law, to start another institution and find some kind of party-wide new entourages. However, it is very interesting when you look at the structure of employees in the current Croatian Employment and Safety Institute, they are 99% of your medics. So, people of medical professions who do all the other work and not this job that their colleague Hrelja was talking about. Because look, working protection is also a very complex job and a very complex process. And that someone in one company, unfortunately, we don't have those in Croatia today, or we don't have very little, complete protection at work where you have a few production cycles, say, in some metal-processing industry, and even at a construction site where you have 10, 15 to say not craftsmen but craftsmen doing a certain job at the same time. It's a very demanding job. And now if there are no such people in this Croatian Institute of Health Protection, and at the same time we are told that they do not need new funds, because people will be transferred from this office to this new office and that money will be taken from there to me, it is not clear how we can get into a work protection agency to transfer people to whom it is not a profession. It is not a profession for doctors, and at the same time for the sake of understanding of the current Institute of Health and Safety at Work has its own branch offices. And now the question arises if we establish a new institution, because it will no longer be the one for safety at work, but it will only be for the protection of health whether this new institution will also be established on the same principle or whether one and the other law will suffer this new memorandum ending of Croatia in five regions. But let it be written inside, too, because there's simply no such thing here together. And why do I insist on it so much? Well, colleagues and colleagues, if this Bureau of Inspectors is going to come by later on, don't do your job, then those who need to organize protection at work will avoid the law. And then we can hang the cat on the tail of that preventive action, come to the site today, or into the plant, and realize that there are no measures to protect the work if we don't know how we're going to organize this office at this time. So he should be the key to implementing this law. Because if this law so figuratively tells us it looks like a one-way street then we don't need it, because this law can't be a one-way street. It must certainly be a two-way street with bus stops, and those bus stops are exactly the space when that work protection engineer comes into one company and says that, and that's not good. You have a period of 15 or a month to make it right, if you do not correct it, you will be punished. But unfortunately for me in this organization, or maybe there's something that doesn't say here. But you don't have it, so it doesn't exist. And now a little bit more, so let me just say something when I talk about this Croatian Health Protection Institute. So I didn't say that someone was wrong or did well when he abolished the medicine work. It is the Croatian Institute for Health Protection that inherited the medicine's work. So, Mr. Minister, if what you said this morning is true, then you need to change the Croatian Health Protection Institute. And another thing, we all know what medicine used to be like, and when you look at the structure of the Croatian economy, unfortunately, you can't have something like that today. Medical work through this Institute has also tried to transfer to doctors in private practice, family doctors who have this medicine. If that's the happiest, the best solution I'm not gonna get to talk about it, because I just don't know about it. I think they should talk about it first and foremost, people of medical professions. So, I just want to say some kind of hodogram, and you can't tell yourself someone ad hoc is wrong to put away the medicine, you started something else. Whether it was satisfactory or not, I'd say let the medics talk about it. And the other thing is that this Institute has therefore remedied the consequences of sickness and injury and it has functioned as it has worked both well or bad now, but I repeat that I still consider it a big mistake to take away their funds and at the moment when the Croatian Health Insurance Institute is singled out from the Treasury. I believe that if we want the Croatian Institute for Health Protection and this Institute for Work Security to have its own source of funds not to finance itself but simply to finance the consequences of what is happening that regulates this Institute. Then this Bureau would have to stand out separately, and it would have to deal with it separately again if they were to raise funds and that those funds were being channeled precisely for what it says here. As far as the law itself is concerned, Article 3 of the provisions of this Law apply in all the activities in which workers carry out work for the employer. Now, colleagues and colleagues, when you start with this, let's say from these colleagues who work here in the council guard, we end up doing some work, and we end up with someone who worked in some kind of a sloth. I think it's so different and so stretchy a term that, but I'm saying obviously that's how it's supposed to be because someone thought it should be. Jurisdiction of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Article 5(2). The government has appointed members of the National Work Protection Council as its advisory body on the work made up of three representatives of the government, one representative of employers and trade unions. So I think that this law was firstly passed to force employers to comply with legal regulations by ensuring them greater safety at work for their workers. And then I think that this particular role should be played by those who are directly in the production and not by putting three state administrators here again, who will ultimately, as with this law, because when you see the comments and suggestions that the customers and trade unions agreed on, then you will see that the government has not applied them and this Article 5(2) points to exactly what happens tomorrow with this advisory body, maybe the representative of the cups and trade unions will say that something is wrong. But these three administrators will say no, it's not like that, and the government will get the wrong advice. That's what I'm literally looking at. Article 7 in order to improve protection at work in the Republic of Croatia, legal and natural persons may be awarded recognition and awards. Now we're going back to socialism, Communism, etc., because it means awarding a confession and reward for someone who has to make sure he doesn't get his employee done, just so he doesn't get the accident. Well, I think that here, human life and the working potential of one who works far more important than whether someone administratively, all this wonderfully, wonderfully arranged to give him a reward for it. There's a series of confessions in this country, so we can get it in any other way because I don't think it's simply a provision like this that's a place in this law, which has far more problems to regulate. Article 58e, this is the best example for you when I was talking about one-way street and law enforcement, we all know what the situation is and let someone just tell me that Article 58e will not offend anyone in many activities in the Republic of Croatia, then unfortunately many would not have anyone to work with after a gazelle or 11 hours. That's it. So much of the same story when you talk about 0% and 0.5, and eventually you make the whole show and the situation is what it is because what Mr. Hrelja was saying today, if you haven't committed a violation, you're being tolerated for 0.5. However, if you have committed any offense or caused no car accident, then no one else admits to you that you could have been up to 0.5. So also here if this law applies, if someone goes away or God doesn't give some other part of the body that it was 0.5 or 1 it doesn't matter, and it doesn't matter who got hurt because of someone's mistake. The 70th election of Commissioners says when employers and workers can choose between themselves Commissioners, work protection workers and is now spoken when 20 workers are employed at a workers' meeting and the Commissioner for Protection at Work with an employer who employs more than 20 workers is implemented in accordance with the provisions of the general rules on work which regulates the issues of the labour force's source. What to complicate here again, first of all, as far as the company is concerned at this time we have more than 20 employees and is it very important that we have to change and the importance of the source of the one who has, but time stands out for me, so I will probably answer in replicas at the end of Article 80. Medical work, so this present institution is the heiress of medical work, and I don't think we should be sorry for what used to be because sometimes when there was no money in health care and pensions they were blue, green and red books on work advice and you can see that unfortunately today President Milanović and Minister Linic can't spend any blue or green books, they've simply changed their time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71807	We move on to replicas, the first to apply to the respected Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71808	I answered from Mr. Shucker's personal challenge, so I will answer you personally. When I was able and was a minister of justice, then two women, one of them had to be promoted, they had equal conditions, one of them was in maternity care, and I chose the one that was on maternity leave. I don't think that's happened yet. But what I stand for and what you're talking about is the truth about pregnant women, and it's true that it happens, but worse things happen, women young, women who intend to stay pregnant, so she's had problems with employers, and we've been doing it a lot in the last ten years and we've also listened to the remarks of such women. What I particularly want to point out, I have already said this, but because of the importance of the situation, I want to point out again, there are often provisions in the law that are kind of favored by women and our discussions go in this sense. But it is often also a trap for women, all that we have discussed today, according to pregnant women, let it be an employer's duty and the right to choose a woman because the truth is a woman can only bear but both men and women can not only raise a child from the first day of life.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71809	The replica matches Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71810	Thank you very much. Comrade Anticevic, if you've done it well. But I just felt the need to say it today, why? Because it's an eclectic example when we're talking about intelligence policy, when we're talking about this one, that one. Very unfortunately, people often like to take advantage of it for political points or so on. However, it is a fact that should simply be mentioned. It should be mentioned today, and it should be mentioned when we talk about the Labour Act because it is simply unacceptable for someone to take it as a right to say if you are going to be pregnant or if you get a certain amount of time and then in the fifth, sixth month, you get fired. That's gotta be stressful. If we're talking about stress in another way, I don't think there's more stress than this and there's no favoring women than men. It's stress for the whole family because I think the husband is also in a lot of stress, but just when we talk about so many things, then we can't skip some things that are life, and that's a life thing. And simply if we're going to allow some kind of liberal market economy, so we can't just trample it all out, we can't exactly let everyone do whatever they want and nobody's going to blame us for saying it's going to be some kind of rigid provision in the law. There are far-reaching provisions that are rigid and that protect those that question should be protected but this is something simple given the situation in which we have to imagine and see simply how to help it not happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71811	Next replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71812	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, you have well detected that pregnant women and women in breastfeeding are completely unprotected by employers. Namely, they are not aimed at any demographic restoration of Croatia, although if they thought a little deeper, then they would realize that their profit depends on it, when they think deeply, but in the short term they want to grab as much profit as possible, and then they wrong women who are pregnant and those who are breastfeeding. This is what you wanted to highlight, and this is this Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work. So in this it is all contained, it is now said that the proposed law will prescribe the establishment of not the Croatian, only the Ministry of Protection at Work, so called the Ministry of Protection at Work, there are no signs of Croatia as someone says the Croatian National Bank, and there are still those who speak the National Bank of Croatia from that time on, there are many of them. So, that's another aspect when, I would say maybe, I won't say unnecessary, but in some ways, there is another institution that will also cost, its work will also cost, and it will have to eat those 200 million that remain of those 650, from that original institution, the Croatian Institute for Health Protection and Safety at Work. And the third that you have apostrophe that these awards that employers would receive for extra protection at work, in fact, speak indirectly about the fact that the legislator is already counting on the non-execution of these provisions so that he will reward the one who meets the conditions for protection at work, he already pre-counts for manipulation and failure to fulfil the obligations signed by the Labour Protection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71813	Thank you. The replica matches Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71814	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic, for a short period of time, was unable to elaborate this more widely for young pregnant women, young mothers. So the sick leave and so on on the burden of the state budget, it's entirely according to the Health Insurance Office, so wouldn't it be logical to keep it working, to have the right to be sick that this employer doesn't cost anything, and let him receive someone for a certain time, for a year, a year and a half to get back from sick. I tried to appeal there to all clubs so that if we need to amend this law, that provision so that it is clear that this is the case, and as to why I am all the time speaking to the Croatian Institute for Health Protection and the Croatian Institute for Work Protection? So it's simply because if it's the institution founded by the Croatian Government, then it's Croatian, it's not even like this, it's Croatian. Although looking at everything together, this institution looks like a party infatuation to me. A new director will come, a new car will come, a new smartphone will come, a new office will come and a bunch of it, so I said that the current Croatian Health Protection and Work Protection Office will work exclusively by medics who can't do work tomorrow, what a colleague of Hrelja was talking about, so that there must be people of a completely different education so that tomorrow when they get on the field they can assess that someone is holding the letters of the law and that because of the letter of the law they should give him a reward. And we're geniuses for that sort of thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71815	Replica, Boris Kovacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71816	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Representative, it seems to me that at the beginning of your presentation you said one dangerous thesis or here, I will fix the unsustainable. When you were speaking and describing the environment in which this law is passed, you mentioned that everyone is happy to get a job and I can say that the place of work is sacred, but in doing so you implied, which I cannot possibly agree with, exactly that unsustainable thesis, and then at such a time you shouldn't have even passed this repair of the law because in this way, let the workers be happy just to get a job. And we know that as an interested party in this whole field of labour legislation, they are with employees, workers, of course employers. It is very important that I consider this law to be one of the most important in the field of labour law, is that it is one of the most expensive for implementation and even if you mentioned this in the context of the debate on the Labour Act, I would still understand that because it is far less for safety, less dangerous for both the safety and the health of employees. That's why I've been a little surprised by your thesis, of course you've already checked in, you'll probably explain it now. And in the end, you still mentioned article 70, just how familiar it is to me, and the debate on the board, the provisions of the ZOR, the Labour Act, were prescribed, and then I don't see the possibility that this law could be set differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71817	This replica corresponds to Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71818	Comrade Kovac, with all due respect, you did not listen to what I said. So, I didn't say that the law should have been passed, but I said in what conditions and environment this law will apply, and when I said that 380 thousand people are unemployed and that people are happy to get a job, then let's turn around, let's not live outside the real sector, so see what conditions people do, let's start from big malls to construction firms, etc., so just talk to them for a little bit, and you'll see if they can apply all these provisions, I wouldn't say. So I did not say at all that the law should not be passed, but I warned about the environment and I was talking about a one-way street because the biggest problem Croatia has is looking at regulatoryly brilliantly solved things, but in practice unfortunately the application is a little different. That's unfortunately our fact. After all, take only 50% of what unions say about what kind of workers are entitled to, and then you will see and try to translate it into this Labour Protection Act and you will see that my fear was absolutely right because it is unfortunately happening around us. And now we want to or don't want to agree the situation is too gray, going to black to watch it with pink glasses.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71819	Next replica Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71820	Dear fellow Shuker here, the law is not about any relics of the past, you probably missed it because at the time you were Minister of Finance but this House of the High decided that 28th April in Croatia is marked as Work Protection Day because it is usually International Work Protection Day. It is common for certain activities to be organised on that day to go through the state of protection at work in some way but to be motivated by employers, trade unions, workers to carry out protection at work and it is recommended to talk about both rewards and good examples of protection at work and that this should be presented to the public and that, as far as possible, it is aware of the adverse consequences of non-execution of protection at work but also of good practices in the conduct of protection at work. Therefore, I do not consider this to be acceptable to any relic of past times or communist society, as you have said, but merely to one common practice in the whole civilised world that cares about improving work protection, to implementing protection at work, to getting citizens to know the importance of applying the rules of protection at work and ultimately to be aware of what once the positive results of implementation or, secondly, the negative results of non-execution of protection at work are, or which are general social damages, if we do not adhere to what we have prescribed in the protection of work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71821	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71822	A colleague of the Hill is anything but the law says that April 28th will be the Day of Protection at work, so let's let it go now. However, one is the Day of Protection at work, and the other is when you explicate in one article of the law, indicate that the prize will be awarded. They're diametrically opposite things. But look, colleagues of Hrelja and you colleagues and colleagues, all these days we watch our firemen and soldiers fight with floods, and now here in Čička Poljana to touch people with bread, milk, and see how two firefighters, banger, put that basket up and lift them up and drive them through the water. So if someone were to stick to the Labour Act, they'd have to go now and punish the owner of that bugger to punish those people up there because they're driving completely irregularly. They don't have a helmet or anything. So I'm just telling you the facts about how we can paraphrase things.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71823	I kindly ask you not to get used to it and throw yourself away.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71824	My colleagues and colleagues, I'm just telling you you have a series of cases like this, I'm just telling you that sometimes the situation let me say to the end, are some of them very nervous, you know, I don't know why. It is simply a situation that forces you to do things in a diametric way contrary to what is prescribed to you for the simple reason that you will help with this way of work more than you will possibly do. But tomorrow, God forbid someone falls off that pager, so if we're going to apply this law, there's a question of what responsibility would be to the man who runs that machine and who was responsible for owning that machine. So, colleagues and colleagues, I'm telling you about it so don't tell me the elemental accidents, because I know what's there and what's going on and what's going on in the Cup. So I'm just telling you about some of the facts that we look at every day and when we try to rewrite them to a law that can happen. So life isn't a one-way street, life isn't some sarcophagus that has solid frames, but unfortunately more times you have to react in a different way and break things to make them better.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71825	Time. A new replica of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71826	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here's what you said. I wanted to do it again by looking at those pictures. After that, someone replicated and threw you out of the bench and said it was an elemental accident, but the question is, what would have happened if someone had been killed and if that law had been applied? The truth is, perhaps before this law, there was a need to talk about the Labour Act and then about the Labour Protection Act, but you also said that the person who gets the job today is happy and certainly is with 383 thousand unemployed people. The 180 grand that live on the minimal, the ones that work 15, 16 hours a day anyway. The number of unemployed is constantly increasing, the public debt of the Republic of Croatia is constantly increasing at rapid speed. It was 55% in 2013, now 65% will be. The government is in debt to the last debt of $150m, but this is not going to finance the economy and create new jobs but is going to the budget. The economy is sinking, the industry is not recovering, the decline in December is 2.8% of exports have dropped over 6%. I think it's kind of funny and bizarre to talk about things like this when Croatia is in a situation like this, you've noticed it well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71827	The replica matches Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71828	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Babic, you can see that there are nervous reactions to one life thing. But I'm just saying, unfortunately, when an accident happens, when someone goes to investigate someone, then they just have to stick to the letters of the law. So I was talking about nothing else. Also when I was talking about what kind of environment this law will apply then we need to be aware of all these bad macroeconomic indicators and we can talk here whatever we want but whoever's out of business, who can't give the kid five kunas for a sandwich in the morning, he'll take the job and won't look at anything. After all, this happened in far more developed societies. Let's just remember that our fellow citizens, so the parents, the rest of them, experienced going to Germany as a highly organized country, etc., just to get a job, so they could make some money. So these are facts we can't escape from. And no one here is putting this or that on anybody's nose, but simply the law is as good as it is, we can agree on some things or not. But we simply have to act at this point that 380 thousand are unemployed and that the situation is what it is and that the question is whether anyone is going to press charges, I didn't get a helmet or I did get a helmet to go to work. So it's far more important to get a job. But that is why the institution, therefore, is not going to see this newly established institution which should once again arrest a party's prominent member serve as a prey rather than serve to see how this law applies, to control and to warn of certain errors.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71829	The last replica Ivan Šimunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71830	Vice President. You spoke to your colleague Shuker like everyone else in the stress debate so far. And tell me who's not stressed out today. Stressed are workers in the private sector where jobs... Public sector workers are under stress for a wide variety of reasons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Stressful are doctors who scold when they try to fight for their rights. Stress is also stressed by teachers, although their struggle for public rights is regularly supported. And I believe they're under stress and members of our government because it's not clear to anyone how exactly they plan to fix the state. Although they think they're doing a great job. It's stressful when you buy a new car, so you're being criticized for it. The only way to reduce stress is to create opportunities to create new jobs. A worker who goes to work for any reason with stomach cramps should be allowed to find a job he will be happy with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71831	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71832	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Kola Šimunović was once known exactly what means protection at work from uniforms, shoes, worksuits and... and even certain activities the way food supplements are given that they simply have to consume it and because their place of work affects their health. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it was like that. However, when you look at now and many construction sites and many companies and also agricultural economies, you will see a bunch of masked uniforms because unfortunately Croatian defenders in uniforms who have defended Croatia instead of being their trophy uniforms, they unfortunately became working departments because they have nothing else to do. But if someone had thought or thought about it it might have been possible to hire a part of the leather and footwear industries and textile industries in the Republic of Croatia. But I'm saying, when you have these macroeconomic indicators, it's hard to insist on it. But it's very interesting that the government took care of safety at work because obviously the specification made by someone from Mars for these luxury cars should literally protect them at work.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71833	Now we move on to individual debates. Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71834	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I have to say that this new text of the law and I say it on purpose new because it is really new is much more comprehensive and better, simplifies procedures from the field of protection at work and, of course, in order to reduce the number of injuries to work that are for Croatian opportunities, for that number of employees working in Croatia and that number of injured in Croatia is quite large. This first reading gave us the opportunity to simply make all the remarks, all the doubts, and all the suggestions. My proposals for a second reading go in two directions. I have no objection to the establishment of the Department of Safety at Work, however, I do not think this is at all the time for any new administration for two reasons. The first reason is that in the budgets provided for the work of these jobs which are indicated that the Institute should be engaged they may be in the budget today. However, the establishment of an institution as an independent body, as an independent unit that has its own administrative council, which has its own director, which has its own new administration, which has technical services, which has cars and mobiles, and which still generates additional costs. This may not be visible in the budget for this year, but in the next budget it will certainly be visible. And this is exactly how the administration starts to build up. If the Institute includes data collection activities, monitoring the state of protection at work, proposing improvement of work protection, professional supervision of the work of authorised persons, then it is not really such a matter of such importance that an independent body must be formed right now. Right now in this worst economic moment for Croatia. Leave that institution in the law, let it be planned, but put its establishment and its application for another time. Set a deadline, a year, two when the economic situation is slightly improved. Let us not accumulate unnecessary administration in these worst economic times for Croatia. It's my suggestion to you for a second reading, delay the establishment of this office for a while. And the second remark is what I already mentioned in the replica before noon. So when you look at the final provisions and articles from 95 to 101 then I really suggest that this, well-meaningly, I suggest you arrange that part because it is unreadable. He's vague and incomprehensible. So you can't have in the bill three types of deadlines, so 30, 60 and 90 days, and in the light of the transitional and final provisions you're talking about 6 months. I suggest you specify exactly what rules you're going to bring. Because if you're passing a law and you're setting a 90-day deadline that you're going to bring all the regulations that will follow that law, then you're going to have to have a vision now that's the rules, as they're called, and you're going to tax them out. I think it would be much more useful than to refer to articles based on which to form or create certain rules. I state this again very well-intentioned for reasons why if such final provisions remain in force, that is, when the new law is passed, they will cause real chaos in application. Indeed, the formulation that they remain applies to all those provisions that are not contrary to the law create a heavy volunteerism which is unacceptable to the laws that we adopt and bring them into line with the laws of the European Union. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71835	Silvano Hrelja also signed up for an individual debate for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71836	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. As I announced in the debate in front of the club, I now have one account with Article 70 and Article 71 of the new law in relation to Article 69 or 70 of the applicable law. Why do I have that shoot-out? Because I was part of my experiences and situations that I had then seen in production, so in the world of work, I kind of negotiated with employers in 2003 because I was a member of the negotiating team. And I hope colleagues and colleagues, that you will understand that it is a duty to appreciate what I have negotiated because the one who does not appreciate his or her value does not appreciate anyone else's. Do we agree with that? Therefore, at that time, we had a situation to motivate trade unions and union representatives to start working protection because at that time there was a good time of collective bargaining in which only wages, regresses, Christmases, union working conditions were negotiated, and work protection was somehow put aside, although the statute of each union states that it is obliged to take care of the lives and health of its members at work and, of course, to go to a well-deserved pension. So we then negotiated as stated in Article 69, and you control what is written in Article 70 of this present bill, this law. In the employer, workers choose between themselves and appoint a work protection commissioner. There's a mistake here because they should or should have been named. The number of work protection officers, the election and their mandate shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of the Labour Act governing the election of the Working Council, taking into account the representation of all parts of the work process. Item 2, regardless of the number of workers, the Commissioner will be elected wherever the working conditions so require, increased risk to the safety and health of workers, work in a separate place and the like, work in shifts. A designated person who works under such conditions, or at a separate place of work, may be elected as work protection commissioner. Not someone else but the one who works at a separate place of work, or works shifts at another plant. Article 3(3), trade unions or trade unions may, under the conditions laid down in paragraph 2 of this Article, appoint a work protection commissioner if provided for by a collective agreement, not on their own initiative. 4th, the appointed union commissioner for protection of labour in rights and obligations shall be fully equated with the elected Commissioner. 4.1., Commissioner employees choose in time for which the collective agreement is concluded, the same worker can be re-elected as the Commissioner. So one more difficult circumstance. If, according to the prescribed criteria, paragraph 5, more commissioners are elected or appointed to the employer, they choose and appoint their coordinator. So now we have 4 of the previous 6 items, but it's not about the number of items, it's about the content of what's in this article. Ms. Marina is my witness as long as they were, because she worked at the Social Partnership Office at the time, she started her work process, of course, and she worked and ate union bread for a time, and therefore we also colleagues, so she knows how difficult it was to negotiate with employers. And with our employers, we agreed that because of the motivation to protect at work, because of the promotion of work protection, we go one step higher, let's install this as it says in the law. All of these possibilities are just to animate, to make people do as much protection at work as possible. Of course we didn't mean to exaggerate. If they've gone too far, we can always talk about it. Of course, we are also in Article 70, not to read all the conditions because I will be consumed by time, contracted and working hours that must be made available to the work protection commissioners so that they can carry out their duties. And we said that these working hours can't be joined to professionalise someone from the union so that only he's a professional still doesn't do anything because the most important thing is that the work protection commissioner works at work, or at work if it includes more jobs. We gave them four hours here and gave them the law. So we didn't leave it to collective bargaining so that one employer has the right to exist, and the other doesn't exist. So then we appreciated that it was time to motivate trade unions, or their representatives, or through the choice of commissioners according to the provisions of the Labour Act, which is usually elected by members of the Workers' Councils or if it is missed through, and is incorporated into a collective contract to appoint a labour protection commissioner, to protect the work of a company, live at a place of work where there are harmfulities and dangers. So it was a fundamental motive not to give to anyone and give bread to a cake, to understand each other. This was not the goal at the time, and I am in some way, and I am personally touched because I believe that this was well negotiated and that we had good intentions and that we have set the level that protection can be developed at work everywhere equally, that workers everywhere can participate in improving protection at work and that this does not depend on the individual employer, i.e. the ability of collective bargaining or employers or trade union representatives. Therefore, it is all prescribed in Article 70, which has the rights and responsibilities with which we have previously given what are the duties and only then which are the rights of the Commissioner. Look at the current law, and I remember it as today in the negotiations that there were rights and duties. No, first we'll write down the duties of the commissioner, and then we'll give them the end of the law. So, I just want to convince you in some way that in these negotiations these two sides and employers and trade unions were well-intentioned. And I must also tell you that this proposal for a protection law at work in 2003, Ingrid should remember, my colleague Ingrid passed in the Croatian Parliament with me two amendments, and the parliamentary representatives were very much respecting the will of the social partners, or what was negotiated. I remember it alive, because I'm an active participant in this process and I care about the end of what I'm saying because who of you doesn't care about what his product is. But when I have one more minute of time, not product, but joint work to understand, one piece together, I don't count on any of this. But I made my contribution to this process. And what I'd still like to say about the law, of course I'll have another five minutes to finish on behalf of the club. Article 68 mentions one term and calls for attention in this article, working with due diligence. That's a very stretching term. The protection of the work knows only the work in a safe way or the working against the rules of protection at work. So there's no work with due diligence. It certainly exists in other laws, it certainly exists in the Law on Mandatory Relations, etc. But protection at work neither in terms nor in profession knows work with due care but in work according to the rules of protection in work or in a safe way or otherwise work is contrary to the rules of protection at work. And if we stick to those terms, we'll be less wrong than if we introduce an article of the law to a term that's very stretching. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71837	We've got two lines reported. First, Vice President of the House, Honored Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71838	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Namely, a colleague of the Hrelja you saw something I saw as being on behalf of an employer there in 2001, 2002. Item 2 with due diligence, he once wrote the work in a safe way. In fact, the whole law, we're all sensitive to the dangers that workers are exposed to especially in certain specific jobs. However, I believe that this should far more precisely define the team as much as all the articles of the law, the whole law more or less prescribes the employer's obligations in the function of protecting workers at work, and only a few articles of the obligations of the workers themselves. And this is also confirmed by criminal provisions, there is no sanction for that worker who does not adhere to the implementation of the Labour Protection Act, that is, what he is obliged to do. Why am I saying that? Namely, you all know jobs in forestry, high risk, exposure to unfavourable macro and micro-climate conditions, harmful action of certain gases in combustion, etc. And it was extremely difficult to prove that the worker acted contrary to the rules of the Labour Protection Act or, for example, in some established practice and was always retired at the end of the employer, never by a worker and caused by his negligence, in his indifference and damage to the means of work and did not comply with the Labour Protection Act, that is, the practice of using protective means at the time. So I believe that Article 68 and this part of Chapter V – Obligations and rights of workers should be complemented, specified, and also in the section on criminal provisions, I think that a certain pensionisation of those workers who do not adhere to obligations and rights of protection at work should be prescribed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71839	The replica matches Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71840	A respected colleague, Vice President, who works in a way contrary to the rules of protection at work, or does not work in a safe way certainly has a place in criminal provisions but more than that is something else. If someone gets an injury code work in a way contrary to the rules of protection at work, which means working that is not a safe way he will suffer all the consequences of such a single procedure because then there is no responsibility of the employer for the resulting damage. So, we don't have to get too crazy about this, but we can't demean this principle of working in a safe way and call it work with due diligence, so this law has a lot of technical models in it that are very precise, and that's why it's good to call things real names. So, of course our intentions are the same only we should get them on, we have two different times to achieve that goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71841	Another replica respected Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71842	It's just a colleague on the contrary. The concept of due attention or duty is a much more precise concept and it is linked through all concepts right, so where not only is the intention of someone bad but above all with the duty of attention which strengthens the responsibility of all the participants here, both the employers and those who participate in the process of working as workers. So the question is, the accent is a matter of responsibility, not an abstract notion of some security, because it is this concept of strengthening the responsibility of both the employer and the worker that contributes to this one general security. So all the legal systems are going to strengthen this personal responsibility and therefore not just one rude disregard but the due attention used, to just spread a little bit to another area of heavy car accidents where with the heavy victims where we often talk to her young people died, no one is talking about what's happening, that's usually because they didn't use the due attention. This term, I am just thanking that he is again affirmed and here not only in our criminal legislation, which, in modern conditions of business, management, technology where the need for due attention is increasing even more because the consequences of negligence, not giving attention can be terrible for both the individual and the social community.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71843	The replica matches Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71844	I disagree with you colleagues and I didn't agree with a lot of lawyers, so the court ruled when we analyzed the injuries at work. The principle mentioned here is securely framed with legal and sublegal acts and is very precisely framed, legally framed, which means working in a safe way, i.e. working in accordance with the rules of protection at work and working against the rules of protection at work. According to here, there's no dilemma here. There's no talking here about any kind of flat-rate employer's attention. This is about the worker, the worker has signed a work contract where he will apply protection measures at work, where he is obliged to work in a safe way, so there is no attention, he can't take down the protective device and work with due diligence, there's no way. It's a work against the rules of protection at work. That's what every safety inspector at work will tell you. There is no arbitrary interpretation of the process of work here. Here are strictly prescribed processes and only so can work protection at work. It can't depend on my mood, my employer's mood, or my psychophysical condition, which affects my duty of attention, which I will give to a certain process of work. I have to use what's provided for in the function of protection and safety at work because it's not just security for me, it's security and for all those around me. I can be the cause of work injury and other participants in the process of work. So, it's not this, I'm just pointing out that Article 68 of the Law has led to a deviation from standard terminology in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71845	We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71846	Thank you very much, Vice President, respected ministers with associates, so here all day in these discussions there have been good suggestions that government representatives will actually take into account until the second reading. However, there was a lot of detachment, there was also politicization, so we finally wondered what protection at work was. It is our job that both the Government's representatives and those of us who raise our hands for individual laws are safe to bring frameworks to protect each worker. Today, however, we have often seen that every step has been minorized even denied. There was also talk that the law that is in force, to kill by passing this new law, that nothing would change. However, we cannot agree here precisely because the efficiency of the work protection system is seen by the number of injuries, the number of illnesses actually. Then the number of deaths and we heard that it's number 767, the number of days lost, etc., that's one start after which we actually see what's going on or we see the efficiency of the protection system. Also, the data that losses caused by injuries or professional illness if they are already 2% of GDP can be said that the prevention system is ineffective and that is why it is necessary to improve it, so we cannot say that the current law has been satisfactory, that nothing will change by adopting this law. The goal is of course, as we have heard from several debaters, a reduction in the number of injuries, or an extension of working efficiency. I also welcome the return of medical work to businesses to EU legislation. We all remember the time when large companies had, physically they had hospitals, and here I'm going to pull the parallel that they existed in schools of the school infirmary so that both the health and oral and general health of children was certainly better, and so is the health of workers in certain businesses. Unfortunately, however, it was abolished, it was said to have been an unnecessary relic of socialism. Specializations have also been abolished, and here we have the information that only 164 specialists in medical work are treating a million and a half employees. And when we look at the comparison in EU countries, they spend 20% of their working hours in their offices, and the rest are in factories, at the jobs of their patients, because their role is to protect health and to see the jobs of their patients. Therefore, this was all the result of a lack of care about work medicine, and we know that medical professionals who are very valuable are concerned about reducing the risk of occupational harm, care for work safety and health protection at work. Theirs can't, I can say, object action is on the one hand a job, and on the other hand they're workers through and through information and education and education to protect themselves and how safe jobs will be. When we look at what our primary role is in achieving the objectives that we have said in this law, which is to reduce the number of injuries, or reduce the number of deaths, etc. It's prevention. The employer must also assess all risks to the work and protection of workers from exposure. I'd like to mention here a surveillance inspection report that is now proactive in this case, it has the right role, the role of prevention. It's not typical punishment, it's really a warning, and that's why we say that this is a proactive role. It means that these labour inspections have their own repressive part that remains still and, of course, preventive which is now very important in this case and is very prominent. Here I will join my colleagues who have made remarks to be the determination of this provision regarding repression. I also welcome the territorial principle of this inspection so that some inspector can come from one end to another and thus we can increase the efficiency of their work. And in the end there was talk today about stress and I was wondering if today we were under stress whether the minister and his associates from this whole discussion were experiencing stress? The stress is usually the result of the interaction of workers, i.e. employees and job characteristics. I can say that there is more and more thought and talk about caring for the mental health of employees, and I must stress that this is a need or a professional obligation, and it is certainly not a luxury. The EU parliament also adopted a resolution stressing the need for consistency between the characteristics of jobs and the ability or needs of employees. According to the European Agency for Safety at Work and Save Health, job stress is present for every third EU employee. I hope there'll be research with us and we'll get the same maybe stronger data. The result of stress at work is about 60% of all days lost but also about 5 million accidents at work. So we're wondering how to get rid of stress? There will likely be a lot of speech in the law that has been announced, which is the Law on Mobing where you will likely talk a little wider about both stress and mobbing because stress can affect physical, mental, or psychiatric disorder. Of course, there must be a team of precisely the team of medical work, and everyone who is part of this team through education, through research of prevention assessments and, of course, through a strategy of help or self-help. I also support today there has been a speech on whether it is time for the Department of Labour Protection or Safety at Work, I think it is good for two reasons, whether it is time or not to discuss it, however, for two reasons. The reason is one education or licensing, which is very important. On the other hand, we have everything in one place that we have the same database. In this way we reduce that wandering or blind choice. This way we go straight where we need to go. After all of this, of course, I support the first reading and bring as soon as possible these rules that have been announced about risk assessments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71847	Thank you. Silvano Hrelja applied for the replica to this exhibition.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71848	Dear colleagues, I'm almost sorry now that I said in front of the club that because it was so later interpreted that if we hadn't passed this law, I said nothing epochal would have happened in order to keep the protection at work still working. But here there are newspapers that are worth our attention and there is no dilemma at all to say what time it is to discuss protection at work, which is not good because it is always time to discuss protection at work because it is an area of particular social interest but it is also a question of individual issues of existence and security at work of all our citizens who are fortunate to be employed. And now if for some reason we're going to postpone this debate then we'll never discuss any important issues and there's something to be said. And it should be discussed more frequently and perhaps we should also discuss on committees and perhaps at a plenary session on the effects of some of the measures being taken. Look, we're talking today about the need to regulate stress and we've never dealt with monotony at work and it's been present in our former textile factories, shoe factories, etc. And we talked very little about it, but the same situation had a very frustrating effect on the employees. And today's question is whether it's going to be a factory tomorrow or not. Whether my job is a pleasure or a subjugation, whether my job is a blessing or a curse these questions also has a stressful effect on people, so it is not just, not only the conditions of work cause stress but also the general environment. And I think at this time it is very difficult to assess the extent of this phenomenon today in Croatia because it is burdened with all other circumstances.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71849	The replica matches Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71850	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Hrelja said a lot now, but I'll go from this last one and I think we'll all agree, today there's been a lot of talk not just about stress but about losing jobs. And that's true that surely losing jobs can't bring any prosperity. When you look at the very definition of the World Health Organization, then it's not just the absence of disease, it's both social and psychological well-being. Thus, stress is, in effect, a day - to - day stress that is experienced by humans. However, I would say that this law that we are making I would reiterate that it is important for each of us, we are all workers because we have some workers, that every shift, there is no magic wand, nor will such a law bring any kind of epochal change, but we have little steps to appreciate and we have to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71851	Second replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71852	Thank you very much. My colleagues Bonačić, colleagues in professional terms and interest, so you also talked about working medicine. Today we know to say the medical work that has been distributed across the county, the cities and that they have become with one part of the smaller health care and curative treatment facilities, most of the clinics that issue certain permits of hunting, driving, and I don't even know what kind of medical testimony is that. But I remember those times when I also took the state exam in 1979/'80, then I worked in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, took a state exam in Sarajevo, and one of the six subjects that were required to pass out from pediatrics, gynecology, the Constitution, hygiene, etc., was also medical work. So the medical work was mandatory for the state's medical exam. There's no sign of it today because the simple medical work is somehow said maybe this is how much I lose in all of this, in all of these events and the impasses of this sudden seriousness and innocuousness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71853	The replica matches Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71854	Thank you very much so, colleague Boro, I think we agree and we regret that medicine we both knew and you and me and who really protected the workers and the shame that it went away because it was in socialism. There were good things. And when you look at now where the fellow medics that there are only 153 who care about a million and a half workers they're everywhere, they're in private offices, in group practices, in labor medicine, they're in homes of health, in companies, in polyclinics. So here we go back to the fact that it was much better organized and that there were also systematic checks, certainly that health care was a much better way to go through such a system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71855	We're continuing an individual debate. A respected Vanja Posavac has also signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71856	I thank the esteemed Vice President, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In today's debate, it must be acknowledged that very good suggestions could be heard and the remarks that I believe will be carefully considered by the second reading. But unfortunately, I have to say that at some point, indeed, the debate was going in one completely wrong direction and even sending a very bad message, I mean not only politics but also something concrete. I must point out that, indeed, there is a need for adoption, a new Act on protection at work can be said. So he had 57 amendments, 50 regulations and, in fact, this law regulates certain provisions that were not well arranged or that were not in the existing Labour Protection Act at all. I would stress that one of the important provisions is that of measures to protect workers against psychosocial risks and psychophysiological efforts at work, which is stress, monotony of jobs and normalized jobs. And what is particularly important is that the employer is obliged to carry out stress prevention at work or in connection with work. So these are factors, they can be work content, work organisation, environment, bad communication, it's a very common factor. The prevention of this stress thus protects the health of workers but also achieves a better efficiency of workers. It's been at the good will of the workers for now. With regard to this, as some have already mentioned, I support the adoption of the Mobbing Act as soon as possible. Namely mobing is, I've given myself a hard time and gone online to study a bit and even sensationalistly announces that someone's got a slow worker in the mobing against the employer, but even against his fellow workers. According to one survey, 60% of the workers thus declare that they are suffering cell phone calls at work, 30% of them by their employer, 30% by their colleagues. Now there may be real fear for your workplace, but often times in this way your shortcomings are covered by the fact that it's going to say the people's muddyness of that other worker. 30-30%. I hope that these research in Croatia will be much more. I would now be there, let me just get a little ahead, to one place where stress, environment, bad communication is actually very complex it's schools, it was, I think, that my colleague Grubisic mentioned it, namely in schools it's not a question of mobbing and stress from the employer but from parents and children. And there's still, of course, that's related to other laws, but actually that kind of mobbing, let's just say the stress at work doesn't actually admit and you can't get sick because your child sent you or your parent to where or was rude to you, etc. Indeed, the mental exhaustion of workers does not go solely from employers, not only from workers but often from clients, from those who come and ask for a particular service which I also think should be quite well in this law, perhaps even in some articles to be completed. It is also very important in this law in Article 56, which is that the employer is obliged to organise and provide first aid to workers and other persons to provide emergency medical assistance or to receive medical care. Namely, there are very common cases that the injury was not seen as a work injury, and I also agree with my colleagues that it should be seen that sanctions are being imposed on that employer who did not allow it. And now I'm getting attached to something that I said at first, and that's an important article in this law. Unfortunately, at some point today the debate is gone I'd say with a bad message, especially for young people. I have to say it. It's the best intention of all of us, and the fact that it was mostly us women, to leave 0,0 proms in this provision, I still advocate it. What was going on today was going that way for you to have on the portals here's the latest Silvano Hrelja for alcohol at the workplace or for me to say my Facebook students write about what I've been fighting for 15 years, so you see professors, there's smarter than you. He had a good drink before work. I think that, I appreciate everyone's right to their own opinion, but also any kind of drugs, any kind of alcohol, I'm up for it, and I'm up for it, and I'm up for it, and I'm up for it, in this Labour Protection Act, 0, 0 promila, anyway. And what's even more important, that's exactly what we're talking about, is that preventive measures are being done at the workplace, and that's that, if necessary, not every day, that's how we use it, but if there's a reasonable suspicion that there's an alcoholic, drug test, etc. That's what's not being implemented enough, and there's a lot of work to be done. I also believe and support that a good provision is the licensing of safety experts at work because this will also achieve better prevention, education and efficiency. And I welcome the separation of the Labour Protection Institute, because if its primary purpose and the objective of prevention is to actually warn, to recommend what and how it should be done, then I think it's precisely in the interest of a good law on protection of work really good. And here in the end, I welcome and support this law, the adoption of the Labour Protection Act, with the possibility that, indeed, some articles concerning sanctions should be considered until the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71857	We're moving on to replicas. First of all, Miss twilight, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71858	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Posavac, I agree with you. This whole debate today was eaten by Mr. Hrelja and 0.05 of alcohol. All the media, absolutely all of them, all of the colleagues and colleagues who spoke here today, who were more or less justified, failed to get any argument into these media, but it was forced that the representative of Hrelja advocated 0.05 alcohol. It's sad. What we are talking about here, the degradation of the Croatian Parliament, the degradation of parliamentary representatives or media who simply want to degrade all the sets, regardless of how I agree with this bill or disagree, this is the first reading. She didn't even manage to eat your 0.05 spills or pawns for women, or pregnant women, or housekeepers, anything. Really, when there's no one left who catches on to us women, what my colleague Ingrid was saying, that's the best topic, something's going to happen. But you ate everything. And you say you understand the subject. ... It would be good if you at least apologized to the young, as my colleague Posavac told them, and told them it wasn't good to have 0.05 before school, before any job, and that you didn't think so. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71859	Now this replica will be answered by Vanja Posavac because the Hrelja has no right to respond to that replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71860	Thank you. Here's a colleague of the Hrelja's after 15 minutes after the individual five finals. I think he'll take advantage of it more. My colleagues, as always, here are some questions, regardless of political colors, which we absolutely agree on. I'm really sorry, I may have been the first to encourage but reacting only to the debate of my colleagues, Tušak, where he mentioned it and I referred to it. And one thing, good and a colleague very politely replied that I didn't listen well, that I was in a drunk state to thank him. But what I'm saying is that a message has really been sent from some of the very important things of this protection at work just as well as home affairs and pregnant women and women who are breast-feeding the main message today in the media is for minors advocated for alcohol at work. There's nothing to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71861	Now we'll hear the replica of Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71862	So, dear fellow Posavac, of course, that each of us is responsible for the spoken word, but no one can bear the responsibility of the information the medium publishes and who ate it to whom. I don't remember eating anyone's lunch today, but eating mine, paying for it and drinking beer out of spite. If you can prove to me that I'm drunk, it's an honor. Look, people, we're talking about something that was completely normal by 2004. And in which world we live today, it's so different since 2004. By 2004, up to 0.5 prominences were allowed everywhere in both transport and work. And what my sin is today is that I said it publicly, which everyone has the right to disagree with me. It's my right to disagree with all of you. You're up for one thing, I'm up for another, and the media's gonna pass it on, so they needed the laborers. What am I to blame for being transferred today? They were supposed to carry their underpants, weren't they? But that's the way it is. But that we understand each other. I'm standing by that finding that medically it's been proven that the 0.5 limits of tolerance are, and I'm standing there and I'm going to stand still. If you prove to me that this is not possible, that man can't function normally with 0.5 permeations in the blood, because you're not trained possibly for a particular job, etc. It's a set of circumstances and I think that, I'll continue to defend mine, and you defend yours, and we'll see what happens in the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71863	The replica matches Vanja Posavac. Please, colleagues and colleagues, please, we can't work in complete noise. We're talking about protection at work, I'd like to ask you to protect these representatives who speak against noise in the workplace. Come on.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71864	Here's a thank you. Here's what I'd like to agree with the vice president. I would ask the same thing to apply the Labour Protection Act, so here's the noise, distractions at the workplace, etc. Here, let me have a little fun. Comrade Hrelj, you say we are not responsible for how the media will convey, which they will put as first news. We don't bear it, the media is independent, they decide. However, since the debate was indeed from a replica to a replica, the debate normally conveyed that the media passed on, and those good, good proposals and remarks did not notice. And now, as far as what you're up for, I think I respect your right to stand up for 0.5 proms in the workplace, I don't stand up for it, and even if I do, we can do an alcohol test every day in the workplace.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71865	Five minutes on behalf of the club and this club of HSU will be used by the respected Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71866	I still think that esteemed colleagues and colleagues, esteemed vice president, ministers with associates. I still appreciate that this debate and possibly what the media have published has not overshadowed all those good proposals and objections to this law. And I think the representatives of the ministry were very careful and recorded all the remarks. After all, it is all in the phonogram and the goal is to say from this pay phone, and it will be as decided, as agreed by the social partners, there is much more to happen between the two readings. What I certainly would not want to miss is two more objections to the law, which is Article 82 of the Authorised Person, where the term defines that authorised persons are as legal or natural persons, which the Ministry has authorised to carry out work protection tasks. The article 82 does not mention individuals at all. Therefore, I ask you to pay attention to that. We also have in mind the assessment of the situation of the draft law, it is stated that it is in accordance with the provisions of the Convention No. 81 on the Inspection of Industry and Trade and Convention No. 129 on the Inspection of work in agriculture and the proposal of this law to increase the scope of the work inspector's advisory action. This is very important, and this should, in any case, be an increase in the scope of the work inspector's advisory action because it starts all with prevention, and one part of prevention is the motivation to work in a safe way, or motivation to achieve the most effective procedures to regulate work protection. So, both the economic side and the functional side. However, here we do not explicitly define the obligation of the Labour Inspectorate, or the work inspector, to provide technical information and advice to employers and workers on the most effective ways to comply with the legal provisions. This one or this one is missing from the law. Only in the Labour Inspectorate Act is it prescribed that the labour inspector may, during the exercise of inspection supervision, at the request of the employer and directly related to the subject matter of inspection, provide advice on how to most effectively apply certain provisions, whose enforcement is supervised. This provision is indicative and not binding in such a way that the inspector may but does not have to act advisoryly and informably, unlike the provisions of Convention 81 on the inspection of work under which the work inspection must act and preventively. It is not clear why these provisions leave out workers, although they are most exposed to labour risks. Therefore, the preventive action of the labour inspector in the draft proposal for this law remains limited to participation in the meetings of the Committee of Protection in the work which is the heart of protection at work in the company but which it may but does not have to come to. So I just want to point out that here we need to strengthen this advisory role of the labour inspector and ultimately all the inspections of the international work organisation resent us for doing a little prevention and a little motivation for protection at work. In the end, personally and in the name of the Club, no matter what the Polish tones were here, no matter how much we disagreed on one detail, I think we can agree on most of the details that this law seems to become a good law and a quality law with newspapers that it gives and related to and with the Labour Protection Department or the Labour Protection Office as agreed and as we give it a stronger specific weight. Therefore, we club HSU will support this law in the first reading and I personally thank you for giving me the opportunity to go back about 15 years ago, I remember well all those negotiations that were happening, some people and the mention that happened 11 years ago and 2003, respectively, that I am extremely proud of because the solutions that have been found to date and should continue to survive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71867	Thank you. The final minutes belong to Minister of Labour and Pension System Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71868	Thank you very much. At the discussion of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, we knew that this provision 0.0 would be one of the provisions that will capture attention but we are not giving up 0.0 and therefore one great reason why there are and interests where indeed not even 0.5 should be in the blood like those interests that are in the building, so climbing high-scenes, working in companies that have different precedents and to support this and data, of the 27 dead workers last year, two were in an alcoholic state which states that this provision of the law should remain. We also resolutely reject these claims that nothing would happen if the old law remained, so that nothing would continue to be carried out protection at work but the question at which level and on the other hand is what we will do with 50 and some regulations that are now in force, which are indeed one of the forests of regulations in which it is very difficult to cope with, and with the experts themselves, protection at work. When we talk about financial resources, we set aside 0.5 gross 2, so that's where we're going to move and what this law is going to bring that we're finally going to have a bonus and a malace, so we're going to have those companies that, for good protection at work, are going to set out less and those that are going to be more for worse protection at work. When we talk about protection in the work of the military, police and firefighters clearly that the protection of work for them is excluded in those parts that are clear that despite all the measures of protection at work, the immediate danger is so great that it cannot be avoided but on the other hand in the proceedings against the insurance houses there were many examples that the family of the deadly firefighters because the work protection expert did not go to the site of the death, they could not get what they needed after the insurance. When we talk about housewives, it is the EU Directive, they are not subject to measures of protection at work, so domestic servants are excluded from this law. Medical work has been abolished, she's been suspended as a profession, there's been no specialization in medical work, and it's gonna take us ten years to get it back. When we talk about rewards for protection at work, they are not, these rewards are not any proof that someone is doing good or not, but it is a recognition to those experts who have spent their whole life getting involved in improving the protection of their work and that we are far from it is an example of a foreign construction firm that worked here with us, which had a competition between certain sections on how which section will better implement the very protection measures at work. I hope that the law, along with these constructive proposals, will come to Parliament very soon and that we will bring it very soon. As far as legal certainty is concerned, transitional provisions must, unfortunately, be so because if we do not make them in such a way that certain provisions that are not contrary to this law apply, we will lead to legal gaps and legal uncertainty, so this kind of forest must be at the end but in any case we have given ourselves the task of making all the rules within 60 days and already there are certain rules which are related to the subject that we are sure will not change this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71869	Thank you, Minister. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71870	Proposal for a law on protection of work, first reading, PZE No. 607. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the next conclusion. Proposal for a Labour Protection Act is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please raise your hand to plead. Who's for this conclusion, of course? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I note that the proposed conclusion was accepted by the majority of 84 votes in favour, 24 against and 4 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71871	We continue with: - Proposal for a law on the representativeness of employers' and trade unions, first reading, P.Z. No. 601 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership. You've received reports. Minister Miranda Mrsic is with us. Minister of the Introductory? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71872	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So what we have announced in the adoption of the applicable Law on criteria for participation in tripartite bodies and representativeness for collective bargaining, which was adopted in 2012 that we will monitor its implementation over a year and that we are likely to come before the Assembly with amendments to that law on the basis of this monitoring. I note that this law has been tried over the past 15 years and has failed because it has failed to agree between trade unions and employers on what the law should look like. It is a law that regulates relations between trade unions and employers and governments only if you view it as an employer it had something to do, but since 15 years failed to reach a consensus on what the law should look like we were so determined to pass that law in 2012. The main purpose of lawmaking was to encourage the union to co-operate, to strengthen the capacity of social partners for social dialogue, and to encourage collective bargaining. Today, in the area of two or more counties, a total of 308 unions and 23 multi-level trade unions are active and at local level, i.e. 313 unions and 3 higher-level trade unions are active. The critics of this law warned that the law would be negative, that the number of unions would be reduced, that we would make trade union negotiations more difficult, so what this law has won over the past year is what is quite the opposite of those critics who gave it to us. In relation to the rounding of the unions of higher levels after the entry into force of this law, two union centres joined together in one and instead of 5 we have 4. The law also focused greater union co-operation in collective bargaining at border and employers' level, as the trade union's negotiating committees were largely determined by the agreement of all trade unions rather than by counting membership. Since the date of entry into force of this law, in those cases where several trade unions operate at the level for which a collective contract is concluded, almost 80% of unions have achieved their representativeness based on the signed agreement of all trade unions without the need to count. One of the criticisms of this law was that we are now going to lead to every company constantly counting members of the union in order to reach an agreement on collective bargaining. We have also announced that we will only monitor law enforcement and that in those cases parts of the law that we find certain legal gaps exist that we will come with amendments to the law or with a new law. Thus, we have found that the process of identifying the representativeness of employers' and trade unions at national level as well as the collective bargaining union should nevertheless be simplified and accelerated because we believe that the process must be rapid, simple and effective. After a series of consultation meetings with the social partners and trade unions and employers, we approached the creation of a new law because we wanted to sort out the matter differently, relieve the law, and this would be the only possible with the new law because the amendments of the existing law would do something that would not be good or would not be legal. One of the key issues covered by this law is the question of the parties to collective bargaining and the right to strike. Therefore, if the negotiations on the conclusion of a collective agreement can only be conducted by representative trade unions, then it is concluded that the parties to the collective agreement can only be part or all representative trade unions. In this context, this legislative proposal proposes to define who can be a party to the collective agreement, and the question of the negotiations and parties to the collective agreement raises the question of whether not representative trade unions that cannot negotiate the conclusion of a collective agreement can launch a strike for the purpose of making changes or the renewal of a collective agreement. We propose by this law that the parties to the collective agreement may only be representative trade unions that participated in the negotiations on its conclusion but in this case it is necessary to define when such a collective agreement will be valid. Even if all the representative trade unions have negotiated a collective agreement, the question arises whether the collective agreement can be valid if it is signed by only one representative union that gathers perhaps only 21% of union workers. This problem is particularly highlighted in the field of collective bargaining in public services, with a large number of trade unions in certain activities. This law therefore proposes that the collective contract negotiated by representative trade unions will be valid if it is signed by representative trade unions that have more than 50% of members in their membership compared to the total number of members of all representative trade unions in the area or level for which the collective contract is concluded. On the proposal of most union centres, a proposal was adopted to prevent professional collective bargaining, noting that there were no union centres here and that we adopted the majority's opinion. In this respect, and the regulation of specific conditions for the representativeness of professional trade unions which, under the applicable law, had to meet quite lower criteria for representativeness, thus encouraging further fragmentation of the trade union scene. What I'm saying is that over the past year, we haven't seen mass creation of professional trade unions, although they remained at the same level, but we've respected the objections of trade unions, most trade unions, so the trade unions wouldn't be parties to collective bargaining. The more the law applies so far, the more representativeness is acquired under the union agreement, the more unions sit at the table and agree. A union proposal has also been adopted to prevent employers from establishing representativeness, to remove the obligation to decide on the composition of the trade union's negotiating committee if, after the process of determining representativeness, representative trade unions cannot agree on the composition of the negotiating committee. Furthermore, unlike the applicable law, which makes all trade unions the signatories of the agreement representative of this law propose that all trade unions by means of a written agreement determine which trade unions are representative of the collective agreement negotiations, which is a good solution for those areas or levels at which a large number of trade unions such as this work. Zagreb Holding. Therefore, representative trade unions that have negotiated the conclusion of a collective agreement but have not signed it can organise and implement a strike for the purpose of making changes or the renewal of a collective agreement until such right is achieved by non-representative trade unions as well as by a non-representative union which refused to negotiate the collective agreement. We stress that the right of non-representativeness to the trade unions to organise and implement strikes for the purpose of concluding or amending or revoking a collective agreement is not considered contrary to international standards to the principles of freedom of association. The application of the applicable law has also been made more difficult in the process of establishing the representativeness of the union for collective negotiations on public services, since in the same situations, the same principles have not been consistently respected and the union's representativeness has been established for the public services and the composition of the negotiating committee has been established for the negotiations on the conclusion of a basic collective agreement. In addition, the application of the national classification of activities to the definition of areas for which collective bargaining has proved to be inapplicable in particular for collective real-economy negotiations where a single employer or an employer’s association is normally negotiated. The duration of one established representativeness is now extended at the time of the conclusion of the collective agreement, so the law makes the situation more clear if, during or after the collective agreement is in force, there is a change on the union side or if a new union has started to act. In that case, representativeness will be re-established. And if the different trade unions are identified representatively, then only a new collective contract preceding a collective contract can be negotiated, whose previous collective agreement ceases to apply. In view of the observed shortcomings in the implementation of the process of determining representativeness, the association of trade unions and multi-level employers to participate in tripartite bodies, this law shall, in a clearer and fairer manner, regulate the process of establishing representativeness for participation in tripartite bodies. The proposal of trade union centres has established in a fairer manner a time period for which data are supplied as well as a time point in respect of which all trade unions must provide data on membership and other data required by the law. In the light of the process of determining the representativeness of the collective bargaining union, the procedure before the commission has also been updated and the deadlines for action have been denied. Given that there was no difficulty in applying the criteria and the rights of participation in tripartite bodies at national level as well as the Commission's provisions or doubts, the same is proposed in almost unchanged content. Since the objective of amending the law was also to normatively simplify the text of the law in this sense, it was necessary to carry out significant nomotechnical interventions in the very text of the applicable law. Therefore, instead of amending and supplementing the applicable law, it is proposed to adopt a new integrated text of the law on representativeness. And in conclusion, the current application of the law has shown that the law has positive effects on union co-operation, given that in a large number of cases it is based on the agreement of all trade unions. The process for identifying representativeness has been accelerated and simplified and all amendments and proposals for amendments to the law are based on previous experience and practice of law enforcement. All issues raised by the ministry during the debate on the content of the amendments to the law reached consensus until the consensus was on those issues which the ministry did not even open in the process. The law will result in strengthening and rounding unions which is an important prerequisite for quality social dialogue for which the government is fully committed social dialogue is something that must exist but it is not an ultimatum but an agreement and conversation. And for example, we have shown that it is possible to agree but that clearly there is always someone who is unsatisfactory but that you can agree that some things change if there is a consensus and a desire for things to change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71873	I thank the ministers. We have one replica, Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71874	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, given that you have actually read this whole legislative proposal in a reduced form, but also when I listen as a doctor and a parliamentary representative listens to your words, I simply think about whether this legislative proposal is actually exclusively for the purpose of anti-protesting or opposing action to the Croatian Doctor's Union? Because if you have read those provisions in which 50% of the stake in the border union is, therefore, a professional union or 50 grand anyway because there are not so many doctors in total, let alone in the union, then actually the Croatian medical union falls out of the game and in connection with the organisation of strikes and negotiations with the government. So it seems to me that in this sense and in this direction, in fact, it is aimed at this legislative proposal and it is the only one that actually seems to me to be its goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71875	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71876	I absolutely reject your claims. This law was written on the basis of an agreement with the union centers. The union centres agreed that there is no professional negotiation in Croatia, and they also agreed with this decision that professional trade unions cannot be parties to collective bargaining, except in those cases where they agree with all other trade unions and become part of the negotiating committee, which was also the case for the negotiating board on the border collective health contract. So this is a union deal, the government had nothing to do with it. So most of the centers, the 3 centres were for this solution, the 1 in which the Medical Union was against it and this law was not directed against the Doctor's Union. The medical union has the right to negotiate, has the right to strike, so it is part of the negotiating committee for the border collective agreement. So that's where I don't see your insinuations not standing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71877	Thank you. On behalf of the board, does anyone want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Independent Caine-Grubisic club. They're gone. They're losing their right to debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71878	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to be very brief this time, I hope I don't cause a storm of replicas because I don't, at least I have no intention. But what I'm going to say is this. So in some orderly societies, as much as we see Italy as insufficiently arranged, but there is a law on representativeness that should not because they have one long-standing tradition, it is known that anyone is negotiating, nor would there be this dispute that the minister has now explained to his colleague Grubisic, so professional trade unions cannot because it is part of a European tradition, they cannot negotiate independently in a collective agreement. They can negotiate within a wider negotiating type and there is no dilemma, and they have the right to strike individually. So this is their right, to organise and to manage air and nurse controllers, so this is all common in European practice. It is good that this law is in two readings, not because it has some big falinka, no, it is based on the consent of the social partners, which is very good, and so should be prepared most of the laws governing labour and social legislation. Secondly, this law also recalls the remarks in this assembly when we talked, when this law was first passed where we are, at least I was then protesting an unequal position between the Association of Employers and the Association of Unions. In this proposal of the law, it is according to the criteria in which a balance is established, one balance is also required, and the criteria for employers' associations are more than ever, in two readings, possibly all the remarks that will be made here or perhaps even from employers and trade unions, which are high quality, can be installed. What I am asking you, Mr. Minister, because on the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership, we have had one beauty of the comments made by the President of the Committee of Representatives, I know that this may be in some way a conflict of interest for him to recommend some changes to you, but I think it is in good faith that he in some way points to you in the previous possible indiscretions, i.e. a challenge in the work of that commission. I think you can very constructively install those remarks in the final draft of the law. Here for the end, the HSU club will support the adoption of this law in first reading and participate actively in the preparation of a more high-quality final bill and we expect it in second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71879	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDZ club Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71880	Honored ministers with associates, esteemed vice president, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The happiest is a society that doesn't have to be unionally organized at all. In companies that have natural, human, normal relationships with workers, there is no need for union organization. In fact, the union movement is and arises from the need, it's urgent, it's a reaction, it's a reaction to unwanted phenomena. Reaction due to employer-to-work relations. The relation of employers to the worker ranged from slave to slave, to exploitive, to today's underestimating. The modern market economy has shown all weaknesses in the relationship between employers and workers, although it differs from country to country and there are huge differences. For example, a working relationship has been treated for life in Japan. So when the worker entered into labor, he had a lifetime contract to work until recently. The union movement is also the response to the behavior of individuals starting from the industrial revolution until today. In fact, the essence of the action of the union movement has changed very little in its essence. As cult films about union movements were sometimes made, they could still be recorded today for the same reasons. Two centuries ago, workers fought for eight hours of work, and today they fight for eight hours of work and have not yet fought. I don't know where society goes if a man's right to work is disabled, and when he's allowed to work, he's prevented from working for eight hours. A man who works more than 8 hours and especially in conditions where he is not paid for this overtime such as in Croatia most often there is a real need for union action. Trade unions broke, sometimes by force, and now by law. And this law, although it says it encourages the organisation and strengthening of unions, will actually act as a devastating factor in trade union organisation. Today we witness the weakness of unionism in general. In Croatia, only one third of the workers are organised into a union, and in the EU only one quarter. And that says a lot of things. In the light of the law, it is said that this law seeks to consolidate the union movement. I think unions can be organized without government support. The union by its definition is an example of organisation and consolidation. But because of the importance, the question arises why the bill did not reach a deal with the unions, although we hear it is. But according to what we got from union organizations, there's no deal about such an important law and the one that we had before and the next that comes on the agenda of the Labour Act. So who do we have to deal with if not the unions? But how no deal has been reached with the unions on the criteria of representativeness. So we're talking about the criteria of representativeness, unions and employers, and the criteria of union representation are not achieved with trade unions. Well, at least the minimum of that consensus was supposed to be an integral part of this law. I fear this law and the announced Labour Act will produce something that is not good and that must not happen at all, in any case, in which it is a strike or a general strike. Protests, strikes, and in particular general strikes do so much to the current, but also long-term damages, invaluable damages. And whoever's playing with numbers on the assessment of such damage then looks at the problem superficially, because the damages are inconspicuous and long-term. The strike should be avoided especially in a situation like this that has been for five years, and worse and worse every year. The growing unemployed, the worsening state of economics, the growing responsibility, the growing deficit and the ever-increasing general strike. Does the government know how much responsibility it takes if there is a general strike? But the unions aren't targeting the general strike? It's a means, it's a reaction, it's an emergency. That's why there's still time and place and space for the deal, and without the talks, it's impossible to reach an agreement. No one made a deal with the press. Well this isn't about individual interests, this is about the interests of the state, the national interests, the fate of the Croatian people, the fate of the workers. So let's not let that strike happen. Although Professor Obadic writes in one of his work to protest, strikes should not be the main and only way of expressing individual dissatisfaction, and especially not organised trade unions. It also points to the fact that there are a number of strategies and tactics that can revitalise the role of unions, points out also in their work that trade unions need to be modernised, that they must become creative, proactive, cooperative and flexible, so that we can all agree on having to be attractive to new generations of employees. And we agree with that, but where are these new employees, where these new employees are, so we don't have any more new workers than we have more unemployed and more at the Employment Office. Therefore, the role of the trade union in Croatia differs from that of trade unions in countries that have organised their economic activity in a more civilised way than in Croatia. Croatia still suffers, but most of all, more negativity occurs in times of crisis in the relationship between the employer and the worker. Workers without whom the employer can't create anything, no capital has been fertilized, no investment has been completed within or has been profitable without the contribution of the worker. The owner didn't do it either, the worker did it. And in all this, the worst goes the worker. 34 billion kuna net profits in 2012 were achieved by employers, of which only 348 employers achieved 18 billion kuna and such a relationship with workers. Either they don't pay their wages or they get paid by an unworthy man. Always honoring exceptions and still fortunately in Croatia there are organisations and employers among whom there is no need for a union organisation at all. They are more protected by the employer than protected by a union organization, they are fortunately such, but there are those whom the worker does not represent anything than I just said as a place of cost. Therefore, even here in the light of the law, trade unions warn of some shortcomings in this bill, and it is argued in the explanation that it is also necessary to stress the European Social Charter's request, which clearly sets out the criteria of representativeness that they must be prescribed by law. This is a recommendation, and it does not say that they must be, but is a recommendation from the European Social Charter. For the purposes of Article 3(2), the number of union workers shall be counted as workers, members of the trade union to which the employer, on the basis of his written consent, tightens the trade union membership fee. Well, then half of them aren't union members, because if they don't get paid, then they can't even get a membership fee. Imagine being punished by a worker once because he's been punished, not paid, and then punished by this law, he can't be a member of the union because his membership has not been paid. And let's call this a deviation should be fixed and exploited. In Article 5(2) of the procedure for establishing the representativeness of the trade union referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the representative trade union shall be considered as a trade union for which at least 20% of the members of the total number are established by the employer or at the level for which the collective contract is concluded. Why wouldn't the threshold be 10%, why exactly 20? After all the talks, the negotiations, if the arguments are stronger by 20 than 10, make it 20, but there is no argument that would support this thesis, or that would disprove the desire to be 10 or 15% and not 20%. The HDZ Club cannot support a law relating to the representativeness of associations, employers and trade unions, so it also refers to a representative union and that trade unions do not support it because the HDZ Club will not support such a bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71881	Thank you, too. We have two replicas, Boris Kovacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71882	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, Mr. Representative, when you spoke in the first part of your presentation, you said this law would destroy the union. I can't agree with that thesis of yours, the more I believe that you would agree if there was a union agreement amongst the unions first of all, then surely not, then we probably wouldn't be talking about this law at all today. What Mr. Hrelja repeats here, Italy does not have such a law only has a code, so there is a possibility of an agreement. We obviously don't have that deal, it's in the introduction and it's the law, and it's the law that needs it, and it's the law when there's no deal. And I also believe that you too realize that, in my view, the greater problem and what seems devastating to our union movement as you have called it, or rather, to our union reality, is exactly the fragmentation of the union and the depravity that certainly dates back to me from that time when we brought disastrous bad laws regarding the activity of companies, the conversion, then bankruptcy and general privatisation in Croatia, and when one such trade union scene was created with these atavims, and a good part of the union leadership is still from that time. And I'm sure you agree with me that these approximately 500 thousand union employees are from the tertiary sector, right, less from the primary and secondary, or what we call today in the real sector. I think that's the union's main problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71883	Thank you. A colleague Maric's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71884	My colleague Kovačić, it is not my problem to agree with a lot of what you say, I can hear everything and understand everything, but it is not, and I do not think it is good that there are desirable and unwanted unions. They're not unions of the government's coalition partners so they're desirable and unwanted, so it's a necessary deal and we can't force the law because there's no deal. Let's wait with the law until an agreement is reached, how much damage it will be, more certainly than the benefits of this law if there's no agreement. If the minister himself says that we will observe the effects of implementing this law for a year and we will bring about changes within a year, so I think it is smarter to agree that there are no changes than a year, and nothing will happen except the big consequences. There's a small difference between a general strike and a fuse that can lead to unwanted scenes. I'm afraid because of the very superficial approach, not yours, we are not even aware of the situation in Croatia. And why do we always have to have a broken head and take a look after it? It is not good to wrap your head before it is broken, but it is necessary to look, observe, think, and conclude. I don't know why he's trying to avoid a deal and force something that'll lead to a strike that can only cause such negatives that we'll suffer for a long, long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71885	Time. Thank you. Next line, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71886	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maric, to be honest, the question is, what is the meaning of this law? Whether to discipline certain trade unions or to achieve certain goals because there is obviously no social dialogue in Croatia. However, what is crucial when we take how many people are connected to the state budget, we also need to add a lot of companies in some workingly active economic branches that are the same in most countries, then we come to the fact that on the one hand, the state's employer and on the other hand the state creates a legislative framework. And that may be the biggest problem in this whole thing that's happening with us because when we really look at all these union negotiations, the biggest problem is, and everybody and their government colleagues know it, the biggest problem is with the unions that receive money from the state budget because the government has very little problems in the negotiations, is that it participates and that it is part of the negotiations that employers are doing for the unions. So this law of representativeness is being turned off by a stream solely because the government cannot find common language with trade unions that are connected to the state budget and we have been aware of it for two years, and unfortunately it has happened in previous periods and when they tried to cut some things off, say that simply given the emerging economic situation some things are not going, some have politically exploited it, and it is breaking their heads today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71887	Thank you. A colleague Maric's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71888	I don't know what the meaning of this bill is. You asked and what will be achieved? And that's the answer I don't know. But what it's going to lead to, I'm afraid I know and I'm afraid, and I'm afraid it might lead to a violent vote of this kind. Why, and there are really no valid and rational reasons for introducing different solutions for trade unions depending on what area they operate in? Why the different criteria for trade unions in areas? Why are the rules of representativeness for trade unions negotiating a collective contract or for civil servants and deputies, as well as for trade unions negotiating a basic collective contract and state officials in public services? They wouldn't be the same as all the other unions. Why? There's no reason why it's different. And there's the answer. You said it yourself, because the government is an employer, so it treats unions differently. But this very different treatment will result in devastating consequences, terrible consequences. May God never come true what I predict will happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71889	Thank you, too. Minister Miranda Mrsic called for the word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71890	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We hear some catastrophic expressions that I don't know have anything to do with this law or have something to do with something else, but here's a few things. So why not professional bargaining and that is the consensus of all union centres because everyone thinks that this will lead to the fragmenting of the union scene and all of that, four union centres, three absolutely agreed that there is no professional negotiation. As for Mr Hrelje's remarks that we had an objection from a member of the commission who was a member and a commission formed under this law, we held a session and we resolved a lot of things there. But the fundamental question of this law is that each of us needs to take part of our responsibility for what he's doing. And calling disaster and disaster with this law is something that has nothing to do with it. So it has nothing to do with the negotiations, it has nothing to do with the Labour Act, but this law has won its success and it is seen from what the union centres have joined together, it is seen from the fact that collective bargaining is working, that 80% of them joined before they went to count. So this is just a continuation of the process we opened a year ago when we passed the law. The law was agreed maximum in all those parts except in the part where the centralities themselves could not agree with each other. We will not observe this law in the coming years, but we have passed the law and we think that the solutions inside are good because they have been adopted by consensus and when we talk about the criteria for union associations and when we talk about criteria for employers' associations at national level. We also agreed on these issues that are related to the negotiation in the state service because the negotiating committee must be formed differently here because you have more expertise, you have more branches. It's not the same to negotiate in a company that, for example, which deals with the protection industry where all trade unions are the same professions, negotiate on the same, and when we talk about a basic collective contract for state services negotiations are different than for public services because public services must include both social and health and education and culture, and therefore the negotiating committee. So it's not an intensities that we deliberately share and it's simply the legality that we have. The law will not be observed for a year, the law is quite in line with the social partners, and I think it will win that role, which is that representativeness in the first row is determined by agreement but when they fail to agree to then go to the membership count. And none of this law defends a constitutional right to strike.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71891	Thank you, Minister. We have two replicas. Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71892	Mr. Minister, I'm not a disaster at all, I'm just trying to observe the whole thing, not isolated like you do. And I agree with everything you said. But under the conditions where 400,000 people are unemployed in conditions where pre-determined settlements are as they are, in the circumstances where the case of Shegon, this case, is the case of that drop that pours a glass. We must observe this in the context of the entire event in Croatia. If there were 100,000 unemployed in Croatia, one such law might have passed the kickings, but with 400 thousand unemployed with Cyrillic in Vukovar, with the opening of fronts on all sides, with a hunger that is moving, with a crisis that is increasingly difficult, with workers who are scribbling this can only be a small addition. He does not deserve such a reaction as they now predict and does not deserve a general strike, but the general strike is a reaction to everything and not just this. That's what I'm afraid of. Therefore, it is necessary to be sensitive and careful and to observe in your work what happens to society as a whole not only in your segment. So you see, education problems, agricultural problems, 50% milk production, problems at every step, problems accumulate, and then it's just a little enough. Well, the spark wars are coming. It just took a little bit in Ukraine, I don't ever want to do it just because I don't want to know what the economic consequences are, not just political ones. I warn you to avoid this sort of thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71893	Thank you. Answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71894	First of all, let's say that in regulated states, it's all about collective bargaining, and that's what this law does to encourage collective bargaining, to sit at the table and talk at the table. What you're talking about is not a law that will cause any tension because the law we've been implementing for a year, we've gained good experience in all of this, people have gotten used to the law and introduced order into collective bargaining alone. On our part, when we talk about what else you talk about persistently, we call for a table, for negotiations, for talks to sit down at the table and talk about all the problems. That's how we worked with this law, and we worked with all the laws regarding the labour market. We are always open to conversations, to sit down and talk because things should always be resolved at the table. But on the other hand, we still don't agree to take it or leave the tactics.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71895	Thank you. Young Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71896	Thank you very much. I must admit that I responded to the same sentence as my colleague Maric when you mentioned calling for disaster. At no point would he agree that anyone, anyone normal in this country, calls for disaster. However, it is evident that with you, I mean the government when I speak to you, that there is no reality at all, a touch with reality, that you are not even aware of how difficult it is for people and how they live and how they experience this, so let's be honest with the authorities. You mentioned that no one had restricted the right to strike, so I'll remind you that during the war we had far greater strikes per 20 days which were not to say paralyzed the state so no one saw it as a collapse of the state. However, you are now making the point that whoever disagrees with what you last said "take it or leave it" who disagrees with you is a minor national enemy. I think in times of crisis exactly the way it is now that the time has yet to come to a consensus, there should be an agreement between all partners. And you prove by your work that you're not interested in that part. You're setting up a story even though it comments, the lady next to you commenting on it in an extremely inappropriate way but well, we're used to it already. But I think it's in everyone's best interest because we're not setting up a story that's worse than we should just come up with a deal on everything. Unfortunately for all the actions you've done so far, you've proven that you're not ready for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71897	Thank you. Answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71898	Responsibility is something we all need to wear, and so do you when we discuss it. And when you go out to the press and everything. And you have a responsibility for what is now imputing to us. It's not just our responsibility, it's your responsibility and all those who act on the political scene. And that's what you need to think about, we all need to think about the responsibility of all of us who are acting on the scene and the unions and employers and the government and all of us not to count. And we are responsible and we want a deal, we want a conversation and we call for a conversation and we call for him to sit down at the table. But not ultimately if he doesn't agree to our proposals, we will no longer negotiate. The government has not terminated the negotiations at any time, and the government has not terminated the negotiations. Therefore, you cannot impute us that we have a lack of social dialogue, that we do not want to talk, but we do talk. And when we talk about social dialogue he's quite developed at... Level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I was in Koprivnica yesterday at the Economic Social Council in Koprivnica and we had a very constructive conversation and trade unions and employers and on the other hand the mayor and I as minister. Therefore, this government is not the one who interrupted the negotiations, this government is not the one who does not want to talk. And I'm calling already, and I don't know how many times we can sit at the table and talk about it and deal with the problems that exist at the table, but not with the ultimatum that it can't be any different than just the way we like it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71899	Thank you. In the name of Kub HNS, Jozo Radosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71900	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. It is a law that regulates a very important sensitive matter of the functioning of one of the important factors of social dialogue, and these are trade unions and I want first to commend the ministry which, in 2012, after 4 years of negotiation, managed to propose and the Croatian Parliament passed this fundamental law on criteria, representativeness. And then very well planned, the minister announced that after monitoring the implementation of this law he would propose to the Croatian Assembly his amendments and supplement them here, i.e. the Ministry proposes not in the form of amendments and additions but in the form of a new, whole law. But it's actually a law that was passed in 2012 in the summer, and since then it's been working, it's been tracking, it's being followed. And the fruit of this monitoring, the regulation of this very delicate area, is therefore this new law or defacto amendments and additions to the earlier law. Since this is an important issue, I will also give some general substitutes on the subject we are dealing with. Namely, I will start from what my colleague Maric said, saying on behalf of the club, saying HDZ cannot support a law that did not support the unions. In this debate, he did not state any argument as to why the government's proposals would be worse and why any union proposals would be here, at least I have only one union proposal partial to why the proposal would be better. Being against the government's proposal just because the unions are against it, which is also questionable in this case is not enough. Because unions may have less responsibility for entering and achieving dialogue and compromises and constantly be, if the opposition is constantly on the side of the union, it may, perhaps, be good for the vote, not necessarily that either. But it is certainly counterproductive for the overall settlement of relations and the arrangement of that area because tomorrow the problem will meet another government with some other parties and with some other majority. This is a question of even maturing, therefore, the segment of our society as the political parties are different and are actually fighting for the same part of the cake and they know how to co-operate. The situation within the union, among trade unions and especially between trade unions and employers, is actually even more complicated than the situation in political parties. And counterpart Maric said that in an orderly society, unions are not really needed. In an orderly society there is no need for any form of regulation, everything happens in some logic, arrangements, reaching an understanding of the position of others, understanding of the general interest, but we are of course far from it and in this example it shows in fact how complicated the position in which the Government is. Of course, it is not possible to expect that society without unions would be, but it would be logical and close to that are some countries, this first one is neither near nor one, that actually the government in union and employers relations is almost not participating, and especially not in some strict legislative legislation. Trade unions and employers should actually be in an ideal relationship, I don't blame anyone but I'm talking about what we should strive for, we should actually agree on each other's relations, and the government should be just a good spirit, a mediator of those relationships, a witness, and not really that partner who needs to bridge their differences, which is what happens to us most often. In this tripartite governmental body, the government should actually be passive in the good condition of these union-employee relations, however, this is not the case with us, so everything must be regulated by law and the government must participate in everything, and then the government is accused of failing to reach an agreement. And here either, or here, there was talk that the government should be responsible for the possible launch of the strike and anything that could possibly bring it. Of course, everyone is responsible, the measure of responsibility of all partners in social dialogue should be evaluated very carefully, not the Priors to say that the government is responsible because it is some kind of competitor because we are the opposition. This is not, in my opinion, how we should be involved in discussing such important issues as this issue. At the national level in the Republic of Croatia there are 308 trade unions and 32 union associations, and at the local level, which includes only one county yet so much logical that if there can be no agreement between trade unions and employers, it obviously could not, then the government tries to intervene and the fruit of this government's efforts is also this law, i.e. amending and supplementing this fundamental law today's law that we are talking about here. How complicated it is to resolve that question is one detail. In light of this law, it states that a consensus has been reached with the social partners, and independent Croatian trade unions that have delivered their opinions and proposals to the CNS club, and these proposals and opinions are not particularly contrary to what the government is proposing, it is said that there has been no consensus. So neither is the fundamental question of whether there has been a consensus or not there is no consensus, and also the way in which it's even been communicated in the last few days, I'm now going into a wider area, talking about that way of speaking, that this discourse can't even come to an agreement. If the government postpones the debate on the Labour Act with the intention of once again trying to reach an agreement with the unions, the unions consider the list as a cowardice of the government, rudely attacking both employers and the government, then the discourse of one part of the union leaders is absolutely not suitable for reaching an agreement. This dictionary and such an act cannot reach agreement on the Labour Act or on this law, nor on any other trade union or issue of tripartite dialogue. In remarks quoted by the Independent Croatian Union, there is little difference compared to the government's proposal, even though they say there has been no substantive consensus on the law. It's a question of whether the union is representative when it represents 10 or 20% of employees who pay union membership. The government is proposing 20, I don't know what the solution to the previous law was. counterpart Maric says why it would not be 10, but he did not state the reason why it would not be 20. 20 is obviously the government's motive to gather unions and ministers in its opening statement, saying the law would lead to a union scene, as this earlier law has led to a union scene. Even 80% of the negotiating committees were set up by a union agreement, not by the necessary arbitration of the government, by determining the representativeness of the union and their right to participate in the negotiations, which is already a big deal in itself. And if the minister says that this law and because of this 20% provision, but also because of other provisions, it will lead to a further rounding of the union, then it should not negatively be the government's interest. If the trade unions are rudimentary then it is easier for governments to deal with such trade unions, which means that the government is working to round the union, of course not operationally than by setting up such regulation, in fact works in their interest and in the general interest of the state, which is that trade union or tripartite negotiations can take place in a much clearer way and much better way than it is when it happens in the conditions of the union situation. And I don't see what would be negative. Of course you can talk about it. Whether the number is 10% or 20% depends on a number of factors, on the union schedule per branch, on their strength, on their ability to negotiate, etc. But the Priory say that only because it's the union's position which is also not explained in any way, it's only expressed as a wish because it's easier for unions to say that this law is not good. It certainly didn't seem to me the best way to regulate this very, very sensitive issue of total social life. And finally, this Law was in its first edition, so a year and a half ago it was a good law. It was a good step that was taken after nearly five years of hard negotiating with the unions. This law is on his trail. It does not make any revolutionary changes in relation to those solutions of the previous, or so far applicable law. It just removes some difficulties that have been identified in the implementation of this tripartite dialogue that exist and, of course, it is absolutely clear that the Club of HNS Representatives will support this law for these reasons and in the first reading. Of course, it should try to make the second reading even better, to the extent that it is possible to achieve the consensus between the union and the government and employers, of course, which are less mentioned here, because it is obviously easier to reach a solution in this part, but this Law is also in this personal form sufficiently good law. We will try to make it better, of course, and the club of HNS representatives will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71901	Thank you, too. We have replicas. Goran Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71902	Thank you very much. Comrade Radosh, you had a chance just before to replicate, and now I have to do it for you. You're saying I said we wouldn't support this law just because the unions didn't support this bill. That's not the only reason it isn't, that's why. And I've set a few examples of why. It's not about minimum wage, legal minimum wage, it's not about shift work, it's not about overtime, it's not about overtime. It's not about overtime. Then I wouldn't say that the union's opinion affects my opinion exclusively, my position. But this is about the representativeness of the union and you say that the government is more responsible than the unions when it comes to them, that they have to, that they think in their heads, that they use them more than themselves. You're saying I didn't explain why 10% of the criteria in the process of determining representativeness. Well, neither did the government determine why 20. If she wanted to round up why she didn't put 40 and she'd have a job, she'd have a bigger one. Or 100% so you'd have one. But there are only two groups of people, followers and associates in politics. The followers speak what some like to hear, and their associates say what they should hear. I'm not talking about differences.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71903	Answer me, fellow Radosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71904	I didn't understand a part of your replica. I don't know what would happen to you with your followers and your associates, there are all kinds of them. I'm just and it seems to me pretty moderately saying what you said. You said HDZ couldn't support the law because unions don't support the law. I'm not citing other reasons, you're now in the replica trying to expand something with this supplement on associates and these others. But I don't think that attitude can generally be good. You of course as party representative have the right or obligation, I don't know it's your business to be against the government, the government's proposal and be on the side of the union. But then it would be good if you said some arguments about why, and then that debate between you and government representatives, the government's majority could be more productive. You didn't do it, though, you missed it. I said that in this case the government may be more responsible because it is very direct union interest and unions defending its interest, of course, including the weaknesses that each organisation has in some way are perhaps, perhaps it is harder for them to skip some threshold that the Government here can do because it is not the most direct, is of direct interest but is not the issue of maintaining the Government, is not the issue of its internal structure and its rights and its possibilities. That's why I said it. But the fact that the government passed a law that, according to what the minister said and according to this 20% provision, strengthens trade unions, speaks of the government's good intentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71905	Time. Thank you. Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71906	Thank you very much. Comrade Radosh, I will proceed to your last sentence. I think that rounding up what you said to the union would be best if that 20% figure were 21%, it would be even more rounding to 21%. But what I was about to say, which is the dialogue that you mentioned about the Labour Act that doesn't really exist. So you said that the unions refused any dialogue on the Labour Act that follows in the legal procedure. So I hope you've seen these inscriptions here from our Labourists regarding 16 hours' work week and everything else that's written here, 16 hours' day's workday. Well, then it's not clear to me that you don't understand that unions aren't even so against it, only if that same working day is paid and we are the EU as in Germany, France, etc. If a man is going to work for 16 hours, you know how much he'll get in Germany, so some employer who makes a worker work 16 hours a day, pay him by German model, by French model, by Belgian model, why not? Everyone will be happy to work, and the employment will be higher. In fact, I think that this speech of yours that we have here and a little comment on in the benches is a little out of the reality that happens not to say the rolling or whispering streets of Zagreb and all Croatian cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71907	Thank you. My colleague Radosh's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71908	Comrade Grubisic, so perhaps you have found this magic formula, perhaps that 21 is perfect for this moment and for this time of year and for this political situation if you consider it that way then it would be good to explain it, suggest it and perhaps the minister will accept that it is just 21% just like not a colleague before you said a single argument why it should be 21%. Finally, it could be 49%, then it would be ideal for only two unions, relations would be clear, but I guess for the current state of our union scene it would be inappropriate because there are a large number of unions, so they would have to be forced to concentrate in a short time, which would probably not be convenient. Perhaps it would be ideal to achieve 49%, so here's the minister to think about your 21% proposal and my 49% proposal. I did not say that the trade unions refused talks with the government and here in the opinion of the independent Croatian union unions it is true that a number of consultation meetings of social partners were held for representatives of the Ministry of Labour. However, it is not a special consensus in the text itself or the content of the bill. So, what the government can do but organise a series of meetings, these meetings happened, obviously there was no deal, and I didn't say that there was no agreement between the government or the wrong unions, but the government sort of did its part of the job as it ran that union conversation it was hard for me to tell. Therefore, the government certainly seeks to deal with the trade unions on this law and on the Labour Act who is ultimately responsible for what the deal was or will not be, that is, of course, the second question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71909	Thank you. The Minister called in his word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71910	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Just to intervene the debate, I am pleased that Honorable Representative Rados read a letter or letter from independent Croatian trade unions that only speaks of how difficult we have come to the very version of the law and that the consensus between the centralities was the way it was, so now that we have agreed, I will only mention some of the old ones we have agreed on. There is no honourable representative, Maric, but I hope he hears. So, in this bill of law, we went into the laws only in those parts that the trade unions said was wrong, and that's where we agreed. So the unions themselves have opened up the problem of professional trade unions, and that's where we agreed that the trade unions are gone. The unions have raised the question that the employer cannot initiate the process of determining representativeness, and we have agreed and it is within the law. We also agreed to the union's proposal that the composition of the local GSV must reflect the composition of the national GSV. We also together regulated who is a party to the collective agreement and who strikes, we accepted the union's proposal. The process for representativeness for the Economic Social Council, so the data collection system, the trade unions suggested that we collect the data, we accepted. The way to keep the members' data, the unions delivered it to us, we accepted. Establishing the composition of the negotiating committee for state and public services a joint union proposal adopted, the number of members of those negotiating committees, the union's proposal after the consent was accepted. The duration of representativeness was three years, the trade unions suggested it would last until the collective agreement was concluded. The trade unions proposed national occupation classifications, so we deleted it. So what the trade unions have accepted to remain in the law that may have been questionable, and in the end, they have accepted that if the union does not object, it loses its representativeness, so we have deleted it. Therefore, all that is written in this law is in line with the unions and no one can claim that we have not accepted the proposals proposed by the union centres. I'm sorry this memo came to the Assembly but we couldn't influence it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71911	I thank the ministers. We've got one replica, Gold shower here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71912	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I'm very sorry to hear you say in the beginning that you've come to this law very hard and then you denied yourself afterwards, the unions have proposed everything and we've accepted all of this. I have no words, and I have no comment on how much trouble you've put yourself through this law and I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71913	Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71914	Sarcasm this will not surprise you, you have nothing to say about this, and then you go with sarcasm, so the law is a fruit of very hard work because what was proposed and what was accepted is not just a proposal from one central center, but these are different proposals from the various centres that should have been brought into line with all the centres. Therefore, the government's mission was to sit at the table, gather union centres and come together to the law. You don't need sarcasm.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71915	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Hrvoje Nekic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71916	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Let me say in my debate what are the most important conclusions stemming from the adoption of this law. So far, law enforcement has shown that the law has positive effects on union co-operation since in a large number of cases it is based on the agreement of all trade unions. The process for identifying representativeness has been accelerated and simplified, and all amendments and amendments to the law are based on previous experiences and practices of law enforcement. All issues raised by the ministry during the debate on the content of amendments to the law reached consensus. The law will result in strengthening and rounding the unions, which is an essential prerequisite for quality social dialogue for which the government is fully committed. The relevant Law on criteria for participation in tripartite bodies and representativeness for collective bargaining was adopted on 18 July 2012. Since the date of entry into force of the law according to the record of collective agreements conducted in the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, 57 new collective agreements applicable throughout the Republic of Croatia and 60 amendments and additions to the applicable collective agreements, which do not include a very large number of collective agreements and amendments and additions to the collective agreements in force during this period, which apply only locally and which are subject to the management records of the administration in the county. Therefore, the applicable law has partially achieved the expected effects, but some problems have also been observed in its application. After a series of consultations held, meetings with social partners, representative trade unions and the Croatian Employers' Association, the Ministry of Labour and Pension System has joined the creation of a new law that will remove all observed shortcomings in the application of the applicable law. What is important to emphasise is that a consensus has been reached on the content of this legislative proposal with the social partners. One of the key issues covered by this law is the question of the parties to the collective agreement and the right to strike. Furthermore, with this law, I propose that the collective contract negotiated by representative trade unions will be valid if it is signed by representative trade unions that have more than 50% of members in their membership compared to the total number of members of all representative trade unions in the area, i.e. the level for which the collective contract is concluded. Also, on the proposal of most trade unions, a proposal was adopted to prevent professional collective bargaining and, in this respect, to prescribe the specific conditions of representativeness of trade unions which, under the applicable law, had to meet quite lower criteria for representativeness, thus encouraging further fragmentation of the trade union price. A union proposal has also been adopted to prevent employers from establishing representativeness, to abolish the obligation to decide a commission on the system of the negotiating committee if, after the process of establishing representativeness, representative trade unions cannot agree on the system of the negotiating committee. In addition, unlike the applicable law, the basis which all trade unions signatories of the agreement are subject to representativeness, this law proposes that all trade unions by means of a written agreement determine which trade unions are representative of the talks on collective agreements, which is a good solution for those areas, or levels at which a large number of trade unions operate. The application of the applicable law has been made more difficult in the process of establishing the representativeness of the union for collective negotiations in state and public services because the same principles have not been consistently respected in the same situations, and for state services the representativeness of the trade union has been established, and for public services, negotiations on the conclusion of a basic collective agreement were determined by the composition of the Negotiation Committee. The duration of the once-determined representativeness is now extended at the time of validity of the collective agreement, so the law makes the situation more clear if, during or after the collective agreement is in force, there is a change on the union side or if a new union has started to act. In view of the observed shortcomings in the implementation of the process of establishing the representativeness of trade union associations and employers' organisations, a more level of participation in tripartite bodies is regulated by this law in a clearer and fairer manner by the process of establishing representativeness for participation in tripartite bodies. The proposed trade union centres have established in a fairer manner a time period for which data are supplied as well as a time point in relation to which all trade unions provide data. Let me finally say once again that this law has really been passed with consensus and on, in fact, agree with the unions that actually participated in the very adoption of this law and the SDP club will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71917	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71918	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with his associates and associate. Just before I heard the claim that this was a fairer system and a fairer union representation law than the one from a year ago. Who we are in the Croatian Parliament or members of the government to talk about it. Well, I guess that's what unions should say that he's fairer, they should make it clear that they've reached out through the agreement of the central unions of some unions with the government, or they've gone towards the minister, they must have had good connections, and they've achieved here's what the minister said he listed all the advantages of this new law. And we know that a year ago we had similar conversations, like this, to say verbal duels in terms of union representativeness. The situation in the Republic of Croatia is as counterpart Maric said, if we look real and move not only in these new cars that have arrived and then in front of the house we sit in the car, the driver takes me to the ministry without meeting any citizens on the way. Sit on the tram, go, live mostly in Zagreb, and see what the people in the tram tell you. Chernobyl and Chernobyl hasharia has polluted half of Europe and half of Russia through the explosion of the third block in the 1980s. These days, he wouldn't want to be an external vice or a wise man, but again, somehow in the same form, Ukraine exploded. Ukraine is divided from Croatia only by Hungary, Ukraine borders with Hungary and Hungary with Croatia. I would not like to repeat what Mr. Maric said already here, but the situation after all these frauds you've brought us in these two years, starting with HBOR and the schegonists using, pardoning that the HBOR is used by the schegonists as a cashier for mutual assistance, from getting new cars, from hiring similar ones, from setting up similar directors, directors and all others, from having the doctor from the hospital to Dubrovnik to be a recovery director, from introducing shift work to doctors, surgeons who can't do their job, from the minister guilty directly to the list of waiting in hospitals, from being no strike now on for three months, two, three months, and that the waiting list has been increased precisely because of the move of the competent health minister as he likes to be called, and not health care. The inaccessibility that is good, the availability was normal in health care, I worked for 30 years. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71919	I must warn you that we are talking about the law and discuss the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71920	That's exactly what I'm confirming completely. So, all these situations, so this one, would have to make them think, think about what they're doing, finally start thinking and pass laws, and this law on the proposed law on the representativeness of employers and trade unions, as God commands. None of the clubs here talked about the representativeness of employers' associations as if they were gone. No one's talking here about the representativeness of employers' associations, we're just talking about the representativeness of the union. We have said about the civil servants' union that there are no problems, but when it comes to public services, mainly health care, then this representativeness figure in Article 8 shows this "In the process of determining the representativeness of the union referred to in paragraph 1 of this article, the representative union is considered to be a union which, in the employer or at the level for which the collective contract is concluded, has at least 20% of the workers". I did suggest, I admit 21% to being symbolic together with those who invented Agenda 21 or Plan 21, and we know where Plan 21. "Of the total number of union-organised workers," see health care, which employs a total of 73 thousand 77 doctors, there are only 17%. If all the doctors were in the union, if all the medical doctors were in the union, they wouldn't reach this 20% figure, and not everyone in the union, we know they're not all in the union. Nurses, I don't want to get in the way of sisters and doctors now, make up in that number of 73,000 health workers 46% or 36,000 nurses and technicians. And now we remember the days when Minister Ostojic in court said he won the Croatian Medical Union, and we know why. It's precisely because it's one of those low-priced administrative etc. It came to this, and now the court's decision not to extend the collective contract has waned. How can doctors and their medical union, I don't defend here or Babic doesn't care at all, I won't talk about names, when there are only 17% of doctors in the health care of the Republic of Croatia who can calm these 20%? He can't possibly, he can't reach everyone in the union. There's no such thing as representativeness. And it is said that the doctor's professional union has no right, says the minister, but it is exclusively about border unions that meet the requirements of Article 3(3), 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, which are listed here, that I do not repeat them, we all got these materials. ... Yeah, yeah, public service. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But I would not want to speak again and be some sort of evil and prophet about the general strike and what a general or general strike can be produced. Anyway, since we don't have any, if this were actually some sort of thing, I'd say, if that's what the minister says the union centres sent an affirmative attitude towards such a proposal that they agreed, then it's a union suicide from an ambush. Exactly. Here we complain, many complain about the number of unions in the Republic of Croatia. Well, we have 144 parties, we're some kind of democratic society, so here's the number of unions, I don't know how many there are, but the number of political parties in the Republic of Croatia is 144. I don't know how many in the Parliament, but there are nine clubs, and now how many parties are still out there I don't know. And two more, three individual, come on 11. So that doesn't mean that if there are nine clubs in the House, there must be only nine unions representatively. So it's borderline and it's professional. In doing so again, I remain with what I asked at the beginning of Minister Mrsic whether this is actually a way to make negotiations impossible for the Croatian Medical Union and to be decided by Mrs Avberšek or I do not know which of those border union employees in health care and we know how Mrs Avberšek performed and whose player she is. Therefore, the HDSSB club, and especially from this medical point of view, cannot accept this legal proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71921	Thank you, too. There's a replica of Jozo Radosh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71922	My colleague Grubisic, you are talking about how doctors who make up 17% of healthcare workers cannot reach 20% because they are not 20% and not only are they not union-organised. But you're not really on the trail of legal solutions. The law does not foresee that kind of representativeness for that kind of union in public services. The law states in Article 3 that the union's representative association is if the unions have at least 50,000 employees in it. It can't be an association. It is therefore not related to these trade unions representing public service employees or state administrations but mainly to these activities of production, industry, trade, etc.. So, speaking of which, you're not on the right track. And this law absolutely has no connection and there is no danger of possible involvement of the medical union in negotiations with the Government of the Republic of Croatia because it is otherwise regulated by this law or law which is still in force.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71923	The answer of my colleague Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71924	Thank you very much, colleague Radosh. Obviously we either don't read the same thing or I don't know what it's about. But by leaving and trying, our strong efforts by our Government and Minister of Resort Health Ostojić are thus reduced by the number of doctors, and then the question of representativeness and the very professional union itself is no longer questionable because 500 doctors have already left the Republic of Croatia and will leave yet, this is your trend in total of your Government and especially you from one party.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71925	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Party Club, Zlatko Tušak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71926	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. I bow to all those who have said that the main word about this law should be given by trade unions, on the other hand, employers but clearly also the Government because it is the third segment in tripartite relations and that this law is the most important thing if social partners have a consensus and have a common position then it is very easy to talk about the law. Whether the law is good or bad, time will tell. The first time a law on the representativeness of employers' and trade unions was passed, he was aiming for something completely different. At that time, the basic theme was Article 262. The labour law contained in the proposal and in the finality of the adoption of this law because it has put aside the extended application of collective agreements. And what was then said about the law itself was that it would help to round up the union on the union scene in Croatia and would strengthen collective bargaining. But here, after a little over a year and a half, we have a new law, the minister said that difficult negotiations had taken place. But something I'd like to look back on, not to criticise myself, but the goals that have been achieved with that law. We were then the first time he had 534 unions and 24 higher-level associations. Today we have a union scene of 308 trade unions at national level and 23 multi-level union associations, 313 local unions and 3 higher-level associations. Nothing's changed around here. According to this data, they may not have been accurate at the time, but it turns out we have more unions than we had back then, which means that the basic objective of the law was not achieved. And today, there were speeches about representativeness and what we heard and what it said in the material that 540 unions had achieved their representativeness from this number that I just said, but the discussion was also in the sense that there were 78 agreements and that the agreement had been signed by 234 trade unions. And now we've confused certain things here, so the union scene hasn't changed anything, only the unions have agreed, these 234 unions have agreed on an agreement just so they don't determine their representativeness because by law we have some 9 things to regulate. The first question is representativeness for the Economic and Social Council, it is a matter of tripartite relations between the government, employers and trade unions, which need to take certain positions in this country, to come to a specific solution, a consensus of all social partners to get this country out of the crisis as soon as possible, in order to deliver better results. But here we see the work of the Economic and Social Council is interrupted, these things are not discussed and clearly we have only one side, which is the government that proposes laws and there is no social consensus and I fear that by such a way and by such work we will find it difficult to get out of that real crisis, only we can deepen and deepen it and we can enter each other into as much conflict as possible. And a few words when it comes to collective bargaining, then this law itself has certain contents. On the one hand, we have to say that the question of determining representativeness is, but it also enters into certain areas of collective bargaining which in some ways is not good or just a question of collective bargaining should have been entered into the Labour Act or possibly said, "Let it be some third law." I'm afraid this solution is not well done. And most importantly, whether in a situation like this Croatia with as many problems as it is said, when one mantra rule that workers are only cost and practically drop out, there is some impression, the only fault of the current problems in this country are workers because they are probably the only cost and only there are certain rights to be cut. Not good, it will have long-term consequences, and this is a question of collective bargaining and creating a certain synergy, creating equal conditions when it comes to receiving individual workers and there is a question of coming to a quality border collective contract that would have its purpose, but we are still far from it. The government has subdued primarily its own way, we have what we offer you, if you accept that we can agree on it, if you don't accept then we can conflict and it's kind of not good. We need to talk to respect the arguments, but also the consequences of certain actions that are being drawn. And one remark, I will no longer continue to prolong, and that is the question of Article 12 in the law itself, because I see no reason why it is said that applying a collective contract can only apply to the workers of one employer, why this could not be the signing of a collective contract with several employers and that joint employers negotiate. I think it is a lack and it is very important to think about whether, in the finality of the bill, we do not allow the question of collective bargaining and for more employers, because this is how we break this part of collective negotiations to a lower level, we split collective negotiations. And this law does not solve the basic question that I said should be the goal, which is to reach the border collective agreements and create equal conditions for workers who work in certain activities, their incomes, their rights, and then we could say that in some way we are a regulated country, this is not how we are. In one company, workers receive much less income, and the company can be successful while in another company we may have signed collective agreements. It's worse business, but the receipts are much bigger. And these are certain illogicalities that could in some way create that the economy and the rights of workers are equally, and then clearly that the market, is the ability to dictate who will remain in such a market is successful or failing. This is how it turns out that I said earlier that mantra question that workers are the only expense in this country and the only culprits for this condition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71927	Thank you, too. We're moving on to an individual debate. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. She's gone. She's losing her right to argue. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, here are your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71928	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. I support this law, I believe that the law is good, and above all because, according to my name, it has been passed. So, as the minister said, he repeatedly reiterated that everything was consistent with the unions. In fact, when we talk about this bill for a long time, this proposal is even better, the original one. Therefore, identifying this representativeness is particularly important in systems such as ours where the union scene is numerous, but not strong in the sense that it does not cover perhaps those sectors, especially a good part of the private sector that should be covered by trade union organisation. So also with this bill of law because of such a situation, which is more or less in the modern world, and also in Europe around the world recognised, so it is now being kept for the most representative organisations, and this is also the approach in line with the principle of association. The criteria are objective, precisely predetermined. And they can produce good conversations and good solutions that are for the benefit of the employers, and above all by the workers themselves. What I find particularly important to point out here is to look a little bit at the position itself, that is, the role of the union today, and also in our society. We know that traditional relationships, relationships between employers and employers, are often considered to be an out-of-date, paradigm by trade unions today. However, I believe, as well as the Government, that the role of unions, trade union movements and in the modern world, in a globalised world has certainly played a new role, but certainly also a new role. That time began to change, perhaps we later saw him in the 1980s and 1990s in a time of strong technological progress, globalisation, and therefore the recognizability of workers, his roles becoming smaller. I agree with the previous speaker who spoke, but this requires a change in absolute economic relations and economic order where the worker will not be a cost. I agree with that, but it's one thing, it's a much more serious debate. We can open it here as one topic where Croatia goes and with what economic policy. Social Democrats and their coalitions in no country, nor in France, nor in Croatia can they respond to their mission, where we are bound by conservative rules at European Union level. And now the European elections are expected, but it is still unrecognized. We think that there we are going to represent our country, there we go to represent the man, first of all we represent the country, but first of all, what is in the interests of people across Europe and so on in Croatia, which means a different economic order for each person. What does it mean to re-engage? Which means a whole series of those rights that, therefore, all the rights that the workers had slowly faded from Europe, and then to us. They are the consequence of these very new relationships but also of the shameful happening in Croatia that all that was good to spit about and that the people who spoke for protection against the collapse of the factory were called commies, and now they teach us lessons. And for God's sake, some great fear of concern is causing here and parallels of the seriousness of the situation with Ukraine. Well, that's embarrassing! It's embarrassing and it's a lack of responsibility. It's true, it's a delicate situation. We all need to show real responsibility. Of course, whoever is in power has more responsibility, but the opposition is not immune from responsibility either. Yeah, 'cause what's gonna happen. With those who are lurking in a difficult situation and here, there are no innocents who are, and those who have contributed most now are mocking and are most damn worried. Where's the responsibility? Do you want the situation to be exploited right now by those populist, dangerous people of evil intentions where there's something worse to expect us to do? There's our responsibility here. So let's also remember those times, so all the work done, came true during the centuries-long struggle for workers' rights. They were never days, they were elected, so then we laughed and laughed at it in the 1990s to rob it. While people fought when they came back, if they stayed alive, there was no building, let alone his place of work. And now they're giving us lessons. There's no job. You know what a worker is, what a payday. What the worker lost and not only his pride and dignity because no one can take it away from him and at least any authority, he lost his name. So let's remember that disgraceful law where the worker no longer called himself a worker, but the employee and the provision was required to obey this verb to obey the employer. And now they're giving us a lesson. So with what right? Where's the responsibility? Let us show in these moments especially in this bill which is a good basis for talking because there is nothing without talking and only seemingly these interests are different employers, workers, authorities. They're just seemingly, they can and can be concrete, day-to-day opposing but if we look at the thing deeply, then they have to be all on the same assignment. So you can imagine when a world-frozen neoliberalist form of financial that claims to be an international monetary fund that warns the world of great differences between the rich and the poor. So what I want to say to this bill instead of boasting, is that this bill is like a dialogue that we're going to talk to and how we're going to talk to, that commendation is said something that has nothing to do with this. Low passions appear. Where there is a responsibility when a collective contract is concluded before the elections in the impoverished then and robbed by that government of Croatia, new obligations are imposed on the new furniture of those who will come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71929	Thank you, too. And the Ministers, finally, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71930	Thank you very much. I hope we get some constructive suggestions by the second reading. What we heard was a principle debate. We hope to invite all clubs to deliver their proposals so that maybe this law is even better than it is now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71931	Thank you, Minister. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we start with the 2012 report on the implementation of the official development assistance of the Republic of Croatia abroad.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-20-0.u71932	Proposal for a law on the representativeness of employers' associations and trade unions, first reading, PZ No. 601. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the Croatian Parliament's working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "First, the proposal for a Law on the Representativeness of Employers' Associations and Trade Unions is accepted. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the Proposer for the final draft of the law." Please raise your hand to plead. Who's to suggest a conclusion? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 81 votes in favour and 24 votes in favour, five abstentions, have reached the proposed conclusion.
