ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80746	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we begin work. We will discuss - Annual Defence Report for 2013 Report submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 8. Defense laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Defence and the Committee on Gender Equality. You received the reports at the session. I ask if the proposing's representative would like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Vishnja Tafra, Deputy Secretary of Defense. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80747	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. There is a Annual Defence Report before you which represents a presentation of the activities of the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces in 2013, the state and development of defence capabilities, the implementation of defence preparations and the structure of defence resources and the achievement of key development projects and priorities. As I believe you noticed, the name and structure of the report differ from the reports of the previous years. This is the consequence of the Law on Defence of June last year and, accordingly, the proposed new methodologies for the production of the report itself. We did not want to portray the report as merely a set of activities of the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces, but to expose the way in which the defence portfolio fulfils its social role by openly talking about the progress that we are making, but also about difficulties, challenges in the implementation of tasks and key developments in the future period. The 2013 Annual Defence Report, which is before you for the first time from the perspective of the Republic of Croatia as a full member of both the NATO Alliance and the European Union. The strategic context in which the defence portfolio of the Republic of Croatia acted is important to highlight three facts. The likelihood of a conventional military threat to NATO and its members remains very low. The need to maintain further building of key defence capabilities in conditions of significant resource reduction is the biggest challenge for NATO members. The Republic of Croatia is not exposed to threats of direct armed aggression, but can be indirectly affected by the consequences of internal instability in the countries of the region. The biggest challenge currently faced by most NATO members, including the Republic of Croatia, is the need to maintain and further build key defence capabilities in conditions of significant resource reduction, i.e. the budget and under pressure from the economic crisis. A defence policy is also set up following this strategic context. During 2013, defence policy priorities were the continuation of defence reforms, the construction of defence capabilities, the credible functioning within NATO alliances, the continuation of integration into the processes and activities of the European Union's common security and defence policy, and the provision of contributions to building stability and a secure international environment through international peace support operations. I also use this opportunity today in the Croatian Parliament to thank all members of the Armed Forces who have made their active participation in peace support operations for the Republic of Croatia a recognizable member of the international community. As regards defence reforms, important developments were made during 2013 in the plan to redefine the strategic and legal framework for the functioning of the defence portfolio. A strategic defence review, the Defence Act and the Armed Forces Service Act have been adopted. It is in full swing that the process of making sublegal regulations stemming from those laws. Participation in NATO's defence planning system has continued and a package of 50 new capacity targets has been adopted. A draft long-term development plan of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2014-2020 has also been developed to define the frameworks and guidelines for the development of capabilities in the next 10-year term and which I believe will soon be before you. Along with reforms in the Armed Forces, the possibilities of rationalisation, the formation of management processes in the Ministry of Defence were considered. During 2014, it will start with an analytical process aimed at making recommendations to adapt the organisation structure of the Ministry of Defence which will raise the level of responsibility and make the management of the defence portfolio more effective. As regards inter-resorship cooperation during 2013, a significant part of the activities of the Ministry of Defence's Office was carried out through cooperation and coordination with the authorities of the state administration with which the most important cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Affairs, the Ministry of Interior, and the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, cooperation with almost all other State administration resolutions on the issues of implementation of NATO crisis response measures has been established. A strong emphasis was placed on international defence co-operation, which remains an important part of the foreign security and defence policy of the Republic of Croatia. In 2013, the following priority areas of implementation of international activities were set out to develop the necessary defence capabilities, security and efficiency of members and units of the Armed Forces in peace support operations, active action within NATO alliances and the EU, strengthening stability and security in Southeast Europe, with an emphasis on co-operation with countries of the region, strengthening relations with the main strategic allies and partners and active participation in bodies and forums of international organisations and initiatives, and meeting the international commitments undertaken and contributing to the development of the domestic military industry. Bilateral and regional co-operation has been focused on strategically significant partners, i.e. countries that are important from the external and security aspects, and has contributed to strengthening the international and regional position of the Republic of Croatia. As regards human resources management, the total number of active composition states on 31 December 2013 were 18841 members of 2940 women and 15901 men. Human resources management was based on four areas – staff reception, professional development, personal need, separation and staff transition. In line with the plan for the admission of active military personnel in 2013, 80 officers and 450 soldiers were scheduled and the plan was fully implemented. The establishment of a pre-graduate four-year study of military engineering and military management with the University of Zagreb is also prepared, which we are particularly proud of. It is about entering at 9 months 50, or 150 plus 50 future cadets and 10 seats are secured for foreigners. As far as professional development is concerned, regular evaluation of employees, implementation, plan for promotion of active military personnel has been carried out so that 1169 active military personnel have been promoted. In voluntary military training, a total of 800 candidates were selected and directed to volunteer military training, out of 80 candidates. Health care and health checks in part of the defence ministry's work have established a military health centre of the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces as a military health institution and key agreements with the competent resolutions have been signed. A total of 9951 health checks were carried out in 2013 by all categories of review, up by 69% compared to 2012. Last year, in this House of Commons, we noticed that we do not carry out periodic checks according to active military personnel according to needs so that in 2013, periodic medical checks were increased to 4716 compared to 2012 when it was only 1000 active military personnel. When we talk about gender equality in October 2013, a document of gender-aware policy was adopted in the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces, a policy document aimed at establishing real gender equality through the implementation of equal opportunities policy, and the removal of gender sub-representation or any form of gender discrimination in the defence portfolio. In 2013, 798 employees of the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces were singled out, of which 157 women and of them 200 employees and subsistence. When it comes to the management of material resources, limited financial resources are to the greatest extent reflected in the implementation of the equipment and modernisation plans. Two rebalancings of the state budget were implemented during 2013. It was therefore necessary to redefine priorities for all branches of the Armed Forces. However, in such unfavourable circumstances significant equipment and modernisation projects have also been achieved with a permanent intensity for the greatest involvement of domestic producers. The Croatian Land Army is equipped with a certain amount of weapons and military equipment. Here I'll just mention the completion of the combat armored vehicle project. In April 2013, the consortium also delivered the last of 126 base vehicles, and 40 of them are dedicated to use by the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. It is continued on a combat armored vehicle the integration of weapons primarily of a 12.7 mm arms station, and of a system of connections. The equipment of the new assault rifle has also been continued and a certain amount of other weapons, means of murder, personal and protective equipment, optical targets, grenadethrowers 40 mm, NBK equipment, clothing and shoes, and engineering machinery has been arranged. Equipment was continued through the US government's donation through the economic and military assistance programme. As for the projects themselves, for the first time in the Ministry of Defence, the Committee on Control, Control and Decision-Making of Project Management was formed, since it proved to be one of the shortcomings in the Ministry of Defence for reasons that individual projects were not constantly and systematically controlled and we saw the need to introduce projects in order to know at all times at which stage the individual project was located. Preparations have been made for the donation of 212 used armored vehicles by the United States and the purchase of used non-combat motor vehicles and containers available from surpluses of German armed forces. In the Croatian Navy, 5 coastal patrol ships were acquired. Just for your information, this procedure is now in a state of rest for the reason that another bidder from the list of bidders has filed a complaint to the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures and until their appeal is decided only on the signing of the contract is not possible. Purchase of automatic ship identification systems and part of diving equipment for combat engineers has been carried out. A project team has also been formed to prepare and implement the project training and modernisation of work on PEREGRIN and to import into the radar network. As far as Croatian Air Force and anti-aircraft defense are concerned, the most important was the capital repair and upgrade of MiG 21 fighter aircraft. Of these 12, 6 are currently located in the Republic of Croatia while still 6 is on a remont in Ukraine. The Captain Remont of the M8 helicopter was carried out in part of six helicopters. They've been remounted four for two. We're waiting for the refurbishment of the remounted spare parts. Modernization of the FPS 117 radar system has also been carried out. The level of security of the communication and information system has been raised. As far as military buildings are concerned, a programme for the construction of new warehouses and facilities has been initiated at two perspective locations, the Military and Storage Complex Croatian crane Doljani and the Fat Head Military Storage Complex. The construction of the accommodation facilities of the Vojarna in Potrinja was also launched and we expect two double facilities to be completed by the end of the year for your information by the end of the year. So the military in Petrinja would have completed accommodation facilities for soldiers. This has also started the adaptation of accommodation facilities to HVU, it is three facilities that will primarily serve to accommodate cadets that will start their education this year in September. In the management of financial resources, account was taken of the achievement of the balance between the objectives set out in the strategic documents and the economic opportunities of the state. A great deal of attention in the management of financial resources is given to the implementation of fiscal discipline and to the creation of only those commitments approved in the budget. In this, the Ministry of Defence is one of the few ministries that has not transferred its commitments from one year to another. During 2013, we also unfortunately had two rebalances of the state budget, which the Ministry of Defence's financial plan was reduced. Finally, it was 4 billion 505 thousand 869,750 kuna, representing 1.34% of the projected GDP, or according to the latest statistics of the Statistics Office, is 1.37%. Compared to 2012, the share of the defence budget was reduced by 1.41%). Compared to other NATO allies in 2013 Croatia was 10th in comparison with 28 Member States after the defence separation, according to the NATO Alliance methodology. As for the performance of the tasks and missions of the Armed Forces themselves, the roles they play under the Constitution and the Law on Defence have been carried out by the defence of the Republic of Croatia and the Allies, international security and support have been contributed to the civilian institutions. The defence of the Republic of Croatia and its allies concerned the supervision and protection of sovereignty and independence at sea and in the airspace, maintaining the readiness of declared forces to participate in collective defence, participation in rapid response forces and participation in EU combat groups. The contribution to international security was made through participation in two NATO-led ISAF and KFOR operations, the EU-led NAFOR SOMALIA-ATALANTA operation, and 6 UN-led peace operations involving 931 members of the Armed Forces. The emphasis in the next period will be on the participation of members and troops of the Armed Forces in various forms of multinational training at all levels to ensure the procedural technical interoperability and cohesion with the Allied Forces. As regards support for civil institutions during fire-fighting activities, 3488 flights of 476 hours have been made. Apart from the Republic of Croatia's fire-fighting aircraft, Canadians were engaged in fire-fighting outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Three times to shut down in BiH, one time in Portugal. 461 emergency medical transport of air-related or injured persons, 529 patients and 1079 escorts was performed. 22 requests have been made for the engagement of HRZ and PZ aircraft in search and rescue on land, islands and sea. And support to the local community, institutions and citizens of the Republic of Croatia was carried out by carrying out infrastructure engineering works, in 10 tasks of the engineering unit achieved a total of 266 working hours. Today from this House I want to thank the members and members of the Armed Forces who provided and today provide assistance to the population and civilian institutions in the areas of threatened floods both in the Republic of Croatia and BiH. During the implementation of these activities, a total of 1207 of 96 motor vehicles, 12 boats, 11 sanitary vehicles, six engineering machines, three Polish cuisines, three amphibiouss, two transport helicopters, five water tanks, four reception tanks and fuel distribution. Since May 25th, there have been five epidemiological teams, two disinfection teams, disinfection and deratization teams and a recovery team. Just for comparison, the armed forces in the flooded areas prepared more than 31,500 meals. Yesterday it was set up as you had the opportunity to see the Bejli bridge in Selo Racinca, and in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 15 members of the Croatian Air Force and six members of the Special Action Army took part in the removal of the flood. The trend of intensive training and training of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia has been maintained, the approach to training has been balanced, the training to maintain preparedness and to carry out all basic tasks, the focus on direct preparation and pre-route training for peace support operations, crisis response operations and humanitarian operations, the fulfilment of international commitments and implementation of the objectives of capacity, participation in twenty international military exercises, two carried out in the territory of the Republic of Croatia... Idolphine thirteen and eight national military exercises. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talk about public procurement, the emphasis is on increasing transparency and getting to know the public with the procurement within the defence portfolio, a significant reduction in military procurement marked by the degree of secrecy in the last two years with 50% of the secret markings we have reduced them all to 10%. It was started with the practice of presenting the procurement plan to media representatives, as you also know to the members of the Defence Committee and the National Council for monitoring the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy. Internal rules have been adopted with established obligations and competences of all persons participating in the preparation and implementation of the procurement procedure. On its websites, the Ministry of Defence published the profile as a public contracting authority, publishes annual procurement plans and their changes and additions. Nine hundred procurement procedures totalling 1,300 million kuna were implemented, 100 million kuna were saved in the procurement procedures in 2013 compared to the insured budgets, we succeeded in introducing it into the public procurement process of a new form of public procurement, which is a negotiating procedure for public procurement. A practice has been introduced to prepare by November of the calendar year a proposal for a procurement plan for next year and a new Defence Act as you know it is prescribed that the Defence Committee gives an opinion to the Ministry of Defence on the needs of defence worth more than 5 million euros prior to the launch of the public procurement procedure itself. Key, planned projects and priorities in 2014 are envisaged intensive reform and development processes, the achievement of optimal size and staff structure, the adaptation of the organisational structure of the Ministry of Defence, the development of concepts for contractual, classified and unclassified reserve, the implementation of the pre-graduate four-year study of military engineering and military management, equipment projects, modernisation and moderation of NATO's capacity targets, the continuation of training and training, the follow-up of the project of equipment by coastal patrol, the completion of the remonting and modernisation of aircraft and helicopters and the modernisation of the radar system of peregrine, and the continuation of the construction of accommodation and storage facilities with the introduction of a new logistics system. And before I conclude, I want to tell you something else that we expect will be extremely important for the defence portfolio of the Republic of Croatia, which is the conclusions we expect from the future NATO summit that will be held in the autumn of this year. The NATO summit is expected to discuss the crisis in Ukraine, its impact on allies, as well as on Russia, and all this will shape a future map of the deployment of NATO forces after the summit itself. It will also discuss defence separations and capabilities that we are particularly interested in, and will be asked by the Presidents of the Government and the President of the States to keep the defence budgets at least at the current level because of the overall situation in the world, to stop their decline and to start to realise or realise the possibility of their increase. And third, what will be discussed, and why the Republic of Croatia is equally interested, it is about Afghanistan and the continuation of NATO's resolution report. The Republic of Croatia intends if two basic preconditions are met, which is NATO signing a sofa and an agreement on security between the Afghan forces and the United States, to remain in Operation Afghanistan even after 2014. Finally, the conclusion, in 2013, marked key decisive reforms and significant decisions and a comprehensive process of conceptual distortion and legal regulation as a prerequisite for the continuation of defence reforms. The continued reduction in budgets was addressed by improving management processes, rationalising business and in general strengthening professional standards among members of the defence organisation. The armed forces and the defence portfolio have succeeded in meeting the objectives outlined, and are able and ready to carry out all their missions and tasks. To the question I'm going to ask here in front of you, if we're satisfied in the defense portfolio I'll answer you, we're pleased. What we are not satisfied with, neither the defence minister nor I nor his associates, nor members of the Ministry of Defence and the armed forces are certainly the height of the defence budget. And that's why I expect from this place, believing that the results we achieve give us the right, as well as recent natural disasters, to point to the need for the readiness and ability of the Armed Forces, so that the reduction of the defence budget does not continue. We will continue, as we have done these two and a half years, to implement internal savings measures, rational and dedicated spending of budgets, trying to be modest but effective. What I presented to you today in the report does not mean that we are not aware of our weaknesses and weaknesses that continue to exist, of course we are aware of them. We are aware of the weakest points of our system, from real estate management and insufficient information, to inherited litigation from labour to damage claims that end uncontrollable judicial, uncontrollable tasks, lack of e-business,... modernization... that should be both better and bigger. But all these shortcomings will be sought, as we have done so far, systematically eliminate, and so will the defence system, along with its members, to set an example of good governance and leadership for ourselves and Croatian society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80748	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear colleague Shimo Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80749	Thank you very much. So in the opening part of your report here you pointed out that you were unable to sign the contract because the company, the company, the second by offer, complained therefore you were unable to sign the contract and start the works. And at the end of your report, what's not very good for me is sitting in my ear, as far as the negotiation process is concerned, before the public procurement is called. Is this about a particular equipment exclusively intended for the Croatian Army or is it a practice in the armed forces? And you said, which is good for me, that this is how you saved, if I'm not mistaken, I said in the introduction about 100 million kunas that you could spend on something else when it comes to the Croatian Army. So please, later if you take your word for it, you might want to explain this second segment a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80750	You will receive immediate response to this replica, Vishnja Tafra. You have to respond to a replica there.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80751	Dear Mr. MP, meaning on your question, so the Ministry of Defence carried out the procedure for the purchase of 5 coastal patrol ships, after the execution of the tender, the decision was made, meaning the selection of the most favourable bidder, the most favourable bidder was Brodo Split Shipyard, but Uljannik was complained about our choice decision as an offerer. While the appeal is under way, the appeal is resolved before the State Commission for Public Procurement Procedure, we are unable to continue anything. So, only after the adoption of their rightful word on whether the appeal is adopted or rejected, will the Ministry of Defence be able to conclude a contract for the construction of coastal patrol ships. As far as your second question is concerned, it is not about the procedure that precedes the procurement procedure, but under the Public Procurement Act, when you call a public tender, you have the option, it means that according to the conditions that you have put the bidders to the public tender. The bidders shall report and submit a written offer with the prices of their offers. At that moment, the new Public Procurement Act gives you the opportunity not to decide at the moment who you choose, but to enter into a new step called the negotiation process. Then on the table you have the prices of all the bidders and you are looking for the opportunity to take the same bidders off the price, compared to what you are asking them for and what you can achieve. That's why it's called the negotiation process. In this way it was also negotiated in the remonts, meaning the MiGs, negotiated in this way both in helicopter remonts and in many other public procurement procedures. So it's a sub-class of how we negotiate in the public procurement process. It's been so long. Usually in the Republic of Croatia, it means that when an offer is received, the lowest bid is taken, but the one that corresponds. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] We do not agree to this and seek internal savings in a way that carries out the negotiation process.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80752	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then let's start the debate. On behalf of the SDP club, the respected Dunja Spoljar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80753	Thank you, Vice President. The esteemed deputy ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, so on 01 July 2013, the Republic of Croatia became the 28th full member of the EU and thus definitely joined in co-operation with NATO and the EU, i.e. became part of the European security and defence policy, while building its own security and defence identity, but also that European space. As a full member of the EU, Croatia has assumed great responsibility on the security and defence plan in line with its economic and political capabilities. This contributes to the building of peace, trust and stability around the world because the security and defence of Europe does not end within the borders of the EU or its members. Also in 2013 which this report refers to, a strategic defence review has been adopted, a fundamental defence document representing the final report on the implementation process of reviewing the coherence of strategic concepts and the achieved and planned defence capabilities with the defence needs arising from the reality of the strategic and security environment. And the reality is that conventional military threats are reduced to a minimum. That military challenges are completely new, increasingly complex, and an irrefutable reduction of money for defence needs. The Strategic Defence Review provides elements for the development of future capabilities and the size of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia and priorities, their further transformations in achieving the objectives set. This also established assumptions for defining the goals of the defence policy of the Republic of Croatia in the future. In NN No. 73/2013, therefore, on 18 June, the Law on Defence and the Law on the Service of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia voted in Parliament on 14 June almost unanimously. After a full 10 years, the RS defence system received a legal framework in line with Croatia's NATO and EU membership. The package also adopted the Law on Armed Forces Service, which has no basis in politics, but in support of reforms and the development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. He proposes regulating education and employment in the Armed Forces but at the same time strengthens the discipline and availability of forces. The total number of active compositions on 31 December 2013 were 18,841 persons. In accordance with the 2013 plan for the admission of active military personnel, the reception of 80 officers and up to 450 soldiers was planned, making the sailor and the plan fully and fully implemented. In cooperation with the Ministry of Science and Education and Sports, therefore, that inter-resorship cooperation that we called for by analysing all previous reports was prepared to establish pre-graduate four-year studies of military engineering and military management and management, the Military Health Centre of the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia was established as a military health institution. The promotion of gender equality policy has resulted in tangible and concrete achievements in all areas or levels of the defence portfolio. The data for 2013 show that in the Ministry of Defence there are almost 43% of women in the State's officials' category, there are 36.5% in the Defence Ministry's Management Department, while only 5.62% in the Armed Forces. This last figure leaves for some future reports a significant area for growth. In October 2013, the defence minister adopted a document entitled Birth-aware policy in the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces whose purpose is to establish real gender equality by implementing a policy of equal opportunities and removing gender sub-representation or any form of gender discrimination. The defence ministry has also raised co-operation with the parliamentary Defence Committee to a higher level, with the committee now tasked with giving its opinion to the ministry for public procurement procedures greater than 5m euros. During 2013, a draft draft long-term development plan for the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia was launched from 2014 to 2023, defining the frameworks and guidelines for the development of capabilities for the next 10 years. After joining the EU, it is clear that Croatia has stepped up its participation in the EU's common security defence policy compatible with NATO and has become a member of the European Defence Agency and the EU Satellite Centre. The armed forces of the Republic of Croatia therefore participated in two NATO operations last year, the ISAF in Afghanistan and KFOR in Kosovo, the EU-led Operation NAVFOR Somalia-Atalanta, and 6 UN peacekeeping support operations with a total of 931 members. What certainly marked the defence system in 2013 is unfortunately financing. In 2013, two government budget rebalances were implemented, the MORH's financial plan was reduced and was ultimately 1.34% of the projected GDP. This is significant below the desired 2%, but it is enough to be placed on the 10th among the NATO member states as little as possible. More importantly, the defence system has managed to strike a balance between achieving the objectives set by strategic documents and economic opportunities. Despite fiscal discipline, security has at no time been questioned. In addition, as the deputy said, the Armed Forces made significant assistance to civilian institutions in 2013 to put an end to 118 fires with 3,891 years, 19,660 tons of flushed water with 578 hours of impact. Almost 1,500 people with or injured air were immediately transported to medically. Finally, I commend this report as systematic, comprehensive and transparent. During 2013 The defence ministry continued its presentation of the defence ministry's procurement plan to members of the parliamentary defence committee. So transparency is no longer just a trend in the MORH but has become a lasting value. The SDP will therefore support it for all the reasons mentioned in this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80754	Thank you. The findings of the HDZ club will be presented by the respected Tomislav Ivic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80755	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support the Annual Defence Report for 2013. It is good to discuss the report in due time in the first half of the year, unlike the previous times when we discussed the report most often in November, December and even in the following year. The report itself has nothing special to object to. It is complete, transparent, and I think it gives full insight into the state of defence and the Armed Forces, although the new methodology of the report itself is, but the data and what we have received in previous years has been seen this year. So from that I would say technically, we absolutely have no objections to this report. However, what we cannot support in this report and what is causing concern, and what we are particularly warning is the trend of a constant reduction in detachment from the state's defence budget over the last few years, which in the long run can leave unsightly consequences and put into question the combat preparedness of the armed forces. The fact is that since 2011, the ministry's budget has been reduced due to the crisis, recession and a significant deficit of the state budget by 800 million kuna. So more than 100m euros in three years have been reduced by the defence ministry's budget and the projection for next and next year remains at the level of such a cut-off budget, which confirms what I just pointed out earlier that this can have inconceivable consequences for the defence and combat preparedness of the armed forces. Instead of increasing defence isolation to 2% of GDP each year according to NATO's recommendations that the alliances fall each year. Last year, only 1.34% of GDP in 2012 was 1.41%) of GDP, expected to be even less than last year's 1.34%. It should be pointed out that the Republic of Croatia and this information we heard somewhere in the middle of the defence separation when it comes to the member states of the European Union, but it still cannot satisfy us in view of what I said earlier. The very structure of the implementation of the financial plan is quite unfavourable because for staff expenditure, so for the cold drive, 2.5 billion kuna or 57.5 percent of the budget is allocated. And for material expenditures, $1.74 billion or 39.3% of the budget. This structure according to NATO methodology is even more unfavourable because according to this methodology for military personnel, 66.6% of the budget is allocated, 207% are maintenance costs and the cost of equipment and construction is only 12.6% of the budget. It should certainly be noted that only 0.1% of the budget is allocated for research and development. So, finance is, no doubt, a key problem for the Ministry of Defence and such a trend if it continues and if it is not repaired, it will certainly leave a long-term serious impact on the defence system and, of course, for the Ministry of Defence. Of course, regardless of these difficult things when it comes to finance, we support the Ministry of Defence's efforts to continue with such a significant reduction of resources and an unfavourable structure of the budget process with significant efforts. And it's a good thing that all Patria armored vehicles were delivered, that in 2013, 1570 assault rifles were delivered, that the moments and helicopters were remounted, that they would not give up on the patrol ship, that the radar system was modernised, but these are things that, with hard efforts, are being carried out and that really should be congratulated on people in the Ministry of Defence. When it comes to staff management in the coming period, we support the process of reaching optimal numerical size and the structure of staff by which the armed forces should reach the planned size of 15 thousand members by the end of 2017. But we note in particular that it is necessary by the end of 2014 to develop the concept of a reserve of armed forces that has been discussed for several years, but unfortunately this concept is not yet finished. What is particularly to be pointed out and what we absolutely support is the participation of armed forces in NATO, the European Union and the United Nations in a total of 9 missions involving 931 members of the armed forces and spent 212 million kunas. By participating in such armed forces operations, they develop the ability to operate in the international environment and raise the level of interoperability and contribute to the affirmation of the Republic of Croatia as responsible members of the NATO Alliance, the European Union and the United Nations. In particular, we should stress the support of the armed forces to civil institutions and, when it comes to fire protection throughout the year and in the country and abroad, we see that members of the armed forces participated in the fire-fighting and abroad, in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Portugal, as well as in the search and rescue of land, islands and sea for which 230 people were carried over the past year. It is also very important to support local self-government units by performing engineering infrastructure works in Vukovar, Skabrnj, Knin, Sinj, Bibinj, etc., as well as the emergency medical transport of persons with an air condition that was achieved in 1432 years and carried 529 patients. Although this report refers to 2013 I am using this opportunity to especially thank and congratulate the Armed Forces for their unmistakable contribution to helping the population to tackle the consequences of the catastrophic floods that have recently hit eastern Slavonia. Armed forces play a clearly defined constitutional role in the defence of the country, but they are irreplaceable when it comes to various natural disasters, and this should also be taken into account in the distribution of resources in the state budget. From all of this, as I said, the club will support the 2013 Defence Report, but once again I want to highlight the trend of a constant and significant reduction in the defence budget as unacceptable. Regardless of the difficult situation and we appeal primarily to the Government of the Republic of Croatia because it is the most responsible, to provide sufficient means for the functioning of the defence so as not to cause permanent damage and consequences and that the combatability of the Armed Forces would not be questioned. What we ignore today will return to us at a triple tomorrow. When it comes to finance freedom and security, they don't have a price, especially in a country that was practically at war until yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80756	Two replicas. Dear Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80757	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In your report, you summed up everything that was important, and the fact is that the new Law on Armed Forces, or the Law on Defence, gave a different framework to this report, i.e. at all, a more appropriate position for Croatia and the Armed Forces. I mean the European Union and NATO. But what I would like to point out, you said in this report is just a few words about the armed forces' reserve, so that sublegal regulations are made, that they are divided into a classified and unclassified reserve. In other words, the reserve doesn't exist. And as long as it takes, unfortunately, we could see for ourselves just in the past days that are still going on, so in the disaster that still takes place where the Croatian soldier showed exactly what he is worth, which means how important he is to the Croatian state. So it's not enough to be a NATO member, it's not in itself to solve these issues within the state, so it's important to have an orderly system that will mean raising people and everything else that these urgent and catastrophic situations require. And that's where I go back to what you said, so not only do we encourage it but in fact, we take the funds to those who are saving, we take the funds where they should be invested, because investing in Armed Forces, in reserve, so in one orderly system doesn't mean that we're going to prevent disaster, but that we're going to make it easier and we're going to solve it faster and come to an end, that's for sure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80758	The replica corresponds to the Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80759	Thank you. I agree with you, but I would like to mention once again everything about the finances and that the budget of the Ministry of Defence is as it should be, in fact, so that 800 million kunas that were cut from the 2011 budget are in the budget I am sure and convinced that this concept of the reserve would have long been developed and set up and that the Armed Forces would also have a spare component. And we need not specifically talk about how important this reserve component is and how important it is when it comes to the country's security, especially regardless of the situation in which Croatia is presently, that it is very small or no possibility until such a possible armed conflict, but it should never be excluded. No one before... a year ago would have said that Ukraine would be in the situation it was in. And in particular, reservations would also be important in such elemental disasters that are increasingly happening and we have seen what role and importance the Croatian military has been in solving the consequences of these days and helping the local population in the floods of the affected area. So the reserve has to work, but the issue of the reserve will only be resolved as the reserve costs, of course, when the ministry's budget has so much money that it can handle it financially.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80760	Another replica, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80761	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Ivić, you've told me very nicely about this report. It clearly corresponds to the state and possibilities provided in the state budget. However, the situation in the Armed Forces is far from ideal and very good as it should be. Since we as a member of the North Atlantic Union in Article 3 have also the obligation to establish our forces to be ready and able to defend and respond to any... attacks, regardless of threats that are not characterized today as major or dangers threatened by our neighbours. I believe that at least what we have and what we have to develop should still be developed. Although the state budget is not sufficient and is reduced by 800 million kuna, 280 million kuna was spent in the train park of officials in the Croatian government, and the rockets needed for the rocket gunner could not be remounted. And that's what's scariest about this and why we have rocket cannons without remounted rockets or acquired new ones. That's what shouldn't happen and shouldn't be without priorities in the Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80762	Answer, dear Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80763	I agree with my colleague Djakic, and we need to mention one more time, and we can talk about whatever we want and the paper suffers everything. But the fact is that the key problem of the defense system and the defense ministry wanted me to admit it or not the money and that it cost everything as much money and music not to say music. And this may take some time, and it really should, as I said in the presentation, congratulate the people of the Ministry of Defense because they've made great effort to ensure that the system works. But the question is how long will this system be able to function with such minimum allocations and what long-term consequences will be for both the Armed Forces and Croatia's security. This is a key question that stems from this report and needs to be answered specifically by what I said and I will repeat now that the projection of the state budget for 2015 and the years that are later does not offer anything new. However, it offers allocations at 2014 level, so when the budget is only 4 billion and I don't know 200 million kuna. And it's going to be one problem that we're going to have to deal with this way, one way or another, or we're going to simply as a state and as the Armed Forces, we're going to lose some of the abilities that we have at this point. Whether it's an air force, a Navy or something but it's just gonna have to be fucked. Ten years we just bought with the remont. Just a moment, the planes will pass quickly and there will be a question of what to do with the air force. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80764	The HNS club's position will be presented by respected Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80765	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We are told that a long time ago, my colleague Ivić noticed a report to the Croatian Parliament on the state of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia was submitted to the Croatian Parliament. So, we're discussing the 2013 Report, the first half of 2014, and let's say that this should be some standard in the functioning and functioning of the ministries, the parliamentary board and this Parliament when considering the quality of the defence system. The report was written very transparently, very correct. It covered all of the most important things that we should be interested in as Parliamentarians. Regarding the functioning of the Armed Forces defence system, what marked 2013 is the start of reforming the concept of functioning, harmonising with the fact that we are not only a NATO member but also an integral part of the Armed Forces of EU member states, i.e. we are entering certain EU defence bodies. A very detailed demonstration of certain procedures in the Defence Sector concerning the outlined reforms in terms of planning and human potential personnel that are to highlight this greatest value of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. A very detailed picture of the activities of all military tribes expressed in figures was given whether it was the number of hours of Croatian Air Force flight, whether it was the number of hours of sailing or the number of nautical miles of the Croatian Navy. Equally, an apostrophysed something very important is that a long-term development plan for the Armed Forces was launched for 2014, 2023. And this particular document should open a debate that has been touched by all previous speakers, including the Deputy Defence Minister himself. The state of technique and equipment of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia is unacceptablely poor and at an unacceptablely low level. It is conditioned by long-term neglect, poor planning, poor access to spending, and the right is the fact that the vast majority of the funds and techniques that today are on the disposition of the Armed Forces dates back to the time of the former state, i.e. war trophies and captured military technique in the Homeland War. These days we have witnessed a situation where the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia have shown their real effectiveness, importance and in fact the truth that they are still and thank God for being such a healthy part of the state system of the Republic of Croatia. In the first moments of the flood in Slavonia, it was not an action of recovery, it was not voluntary works of benign character harmless. In the first hours of the flood, the tragedy that struck Slavonia, but also neighbouring countries, intervened by saving human lives, and the ladies and gentlemen risked their lives. In some missions, they used amphibious for example. Madam Deputy Minister herself stressed that they were using three amphibiouss. These three amphibious are Russian productions and are part of military techniques inherited from JNA. It's the truth about the state of the Armed Forces. They were saving a trophy technique with human lives. Thank God they flew on something better helicopters. Part of it was obtained in free Croatia, part of it was also obtained in the era of the Homeland War, so it is a rag. Tomorrow, military aircraft of the Croatian Army will intervene in some kind of threat, the safety of the Republic of Croatia on planes that are my generation, a bit of a protest between ladies and gentlemen, a bit of a protest. 10 years planned further in the exploitation of MiG 21 is really one very optimistic approach. I'm usually an optimist in my life, but I'm just so optimistic and convinced and that I would sign that these planes, regardless of what the contract says, are going to make the scope of the remont jobs useful and safe for our people who have been flying for another 10 years, I don't know. Now we come to numbers. The figures are conditioned by the difficult economic situation and by the situation inherited by this government and by the difficult situations some governments had before. The defense money was never enough, there were other priorities. However, there is one truth, no matter how many formational armed forces of the Republic of Croatia have been reduced to a minimum, we have reduced them to a minimum formation, a situation in which only 12.5% of the total budget for the Armed Forces has been allocated to the equipment of the Armed Forces in modern times, and this total budget for the Armed Forces falls from year to year and is still being fucked and is unacceptable in rebalancing. These men from the Department of Defense are doing wonders. I must say that I am also impressed by the work of Minister Kotromanović and his team because in these financial conditions to maintain at this level combatability, to obtain some new systems as modest and insufficient as it is, to patch up the trophy technique on which they drive, fly or from which members of the Armed Forces shoot is just a miracle. But miracles, ladies and gentlemen, don't last long. And this time, which is not very often, I will agree with my colleague, Ivić, who said that an uninvolved kuna in the Armed Forces could be charged triple. And that's true. We thought the threat was gone. The armed forces of the Republic of Croatia do not have to be too many threads with too many available techniques because we have become in the context of defence against the external threat of the NATO alliance and this gives us the highest possible level of security right now. But counterpart Milas said in a replica there are situations that NATO does not solve. Through this situation and through this tragedy Slavonia went through and through still. People with trophy technique were going to save people's lives. They had six construction machines at their disposal. They might have been more efficient if they had 60 construction machines at their disposal. Maybe it would have been a tragedy smaller if we had six amphibiouss and that new, more usable. And this Parliament, regardless of party membership, must look into the truth. She must finally hear a very politely formulated appeal from the deputy minister at the end of her presentation, which warns us as parliamentary representatives that at this level, the Armed Forces do not have the necessary future, the desired future. Let's not lie, it's the worst we can do in life, and in politics as responsible people especially. No search and rescue at sea without the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, no. Especially in difficult situations. There's no fire protection in Dalmatia and there's no opposing fire-status without the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Without the canadora, you're done. As a local official, I had a chance to be with my men on the fire front, and I know what happened to us when the dark went down and the canaders retired. We've been waiting for the dawn as a blissful bust, for the boys to come back. No flood rescue, no rescue don't give God from earthquakes or anything else without the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. And we can't expect these people to carry out their duties in what we Dalmatians call a carampan. The time of the caravan in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, an outdated technique that must be broken down. And in that part lies our responsibility for a strong political message to the executive government. If it is, and is a difficult situation and it is projected in the 2015 and 2016 budget, but when we do this strategic plan, I will not raise my hand for it in the Croatian Parliament no matter how much it costs me if it contains those elements of the development of the Armed Forces that are suited to our needs and security of the citizens of this country. Finally, I am taking the opportunity to thank as a citizen and a man all members of the Armed Forces for what they have done for our people for the past few weeks, for what they are doing today in the Gunja area and other affected areas. It would be good if we all looked up to them, all of us. And for what they did even in those places that didn't exactly send friendly messages to us in some close past. Here we showed the moral strength of this nation and those boys who went to Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia to help those who are in the accident congratulating and thanking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80766	Thank you. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, the Honorable Damir Cain will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80767	Here's a lead on Mr. Baranovic's exit today 70 years ago, the Allied landing in Normandy began. This is a day celebrated by the entire democratic Europe as well as the end of World War II. By the way, I'm going to thank that generation that ended that Second World War. Today means after the Homeland War surely that defence priorities are significantly different. Today Croatia is in NATO and unfortunately because of the tragedy, I will call it the apocalypse in flooded areas of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Army has done or better to say doing a huge peace and humanitarian job. We heard before that the Croatian Army had shown itself in these jobs in both Greece and Portugal and not to list the others, let's say Bosnia and Herzegovina and our neighbouring countries. Clearly, the most important, most difficult mission of the Croatian Army is seen primarily in Afghanistan, but also in other peace-making operations around the world. Many here have talked about the purchase of equipment, so I will say something by quoting this report, on party 4 where it is said: "That equipment and modernisation were implemented in 2013 under the conditions of limited financial resources and rebalances of the budget." And we have to be aware of that as well or rather. That supply is going to go extremely hard. Before that, I want us to mention, for example. one HS product, probably the most technical or technologically modern factory in the Republic of Croatia, and probably easy weapons in the world. The one who was like that, it's just fascinating. If we know these people started out of nothing and became e.g. Among other things, the biggest gun suppliers in the history of the United States. Here, on page 5, it is literally said that in 2013 the coast guard of the Republic of Croatia started the procedure for the purchase of five coastal patrol ships, the purchase of automatic ship identification systems and the equipment of combat engineers with diving equipment was carried out, etc. The activities of the equipment of the Croatian Air Force will not particularly apostrophe because we know what is actually going on there. But in 2013 there was a list of military properties, apartments, garages, business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia, which I will say a few words about. What I particularly hope for in 2015 will definitely come to the withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan. It is fortunate that none of the Croatian soldiers in Afghanistan, in this probably most demanding mission today, died in the world. This speaks of the training of Croatian soldiers, it speaks of the training of Croatian commanders. What is especially the greeting on the trail of the quoted sentence is the transfer of the army from, as they called it, unspectived areas, it doesn't matter if it's Muzil, whether it's Valalunga, whether it's Katarina, we're talking about Istrian sites, and I'm guessing it's similar across the Republic of Croatia. These facilities that do not serve the Croatian Army should be put into operation. Clearly, these facilities should not be sold out, these facilities should not be donated, these facilities should be protected rather than devastated as it was done with a series of military facilities in Pula, but clearly do not give up those facilities for something contrary to the interests of the local population, which is shown when it comes to golf at Muzil. But what needs to be particularly welcomed, this willingness of the Armed Forces that what they don't need simply comes to the local community. Clearly for putting into office this dead capital should not be blamed, I will tell the heads of the MORH, but we are aware that there are simply billions of kunas or euros in that dead capital throughout the Republic of Croatia. It is also good that the Croatian Army has become a true peacetime army, it is a well-led army, it is loyal to democratic principles and it needs to be particularly apostropheeded. Clearly, participation in these missions from Afghanistan, via Kosovo, through Somalia costs the Republic of Croatia's budget but others have helped the Republic of Croatia in the early 1990s if it is now normal for us to return the aid. What I personally think is crucial among others in this report, this is on page 30, an existing staff structure. It states here that the total number of staff members' status on 31 December 2013 was 18,841 of which women were 2940, men 15,901. The completion of the defence and armed forces ministry's structural units is 84.4%, and I am now not exactly stating all that data. If we keep in mind that in 95, now you can correct me here, have over 70,000, or even around 97,98, active military personnel, then you can imagine what effort all the governments have had to take care of almost 50,000 soldiers without any market, so to speak. What's just as interesting is transition and staff separation. So for 2013, an active military person with the right to retire and contracted soldiers sailors, so the plan was 488 and it was created 575, the civil servants and subsistence plan was 200 achieved is 223, so last year he was under quotes, when we talk about this transition and the separation of staff, somewhere around 798 persons left the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. And yes, certainly perhaps what is crucial in this report, it is the management of financial resources. The Ministry of Defence's 2013 financial plan was established by the state budget of the Republic of Croatia and was clearly changing how these budgets were rebalanced here in Parliament. Finally, the budget for the Croatian Army or the Ministry of Defence was 4 million 505, excuse me, 4 billion 505 million kuna, representing 1.34% of projected GDP, and compared to 2012 the share of the defence budget in GDP was reduced from 1.4% of GDP to 1.33%. 2013 Defence Financial Plan set out in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013 with projections for '14. And '15. which was adopted in December 2012 amounts to 4 billion 809 million kuna. And now that we're looking at these plans, we see that employee costs are somewhere, I'm talking about execution for 2013, 2.5 billion kuna, material expenditures of 700 million, financial expenditures of 65 million kuna, civil and household fees based on insurance and other compensation of 5.7 million kuna, other expenditures of $4.4 million, expenditures for the purchase of non-productive long-term assets of 2.8 million kuna and expenditures for the purchase of long-term assets produced, 62.4 million kuna. In total, 4 billion 428 million kuna. So I dare say that under quotes, these are minimal means to keep the system sustainable. So, the crisis in this country is all about, and that's how the crisis is carried by both members or by the Armed Forces themselves. Issuance mentioned, 1.34% of GDP, or it seems to me that the deputy minister said 1.37%, probably due to the GDP's decline in the past and this year. It's something that's not least in Europe, we're by allocation for armed forces, when we talk about GDP in the 10th place of the 28th EU member states, but I agree that when it comes to maintaining a system in the Republic of Croatia, it's probably a minimum. It is also clear that the military should continue to be reduced, in return for training, that the army should be technically raised to a level similar to or the same armies to that number of inhabitants in Europe. Yeah, a lot of people used to say it would be ideal to restore aviation, I agree, but that costs, say, $1 billion or euros. Maybe the Americans will give us their planes, but it costs too. Is that how we can simply approach or think today? Clearly what is most important, Croatian politics is a defence policy and in so many Croatia today no one should be afraid of. And especially what I welcome, these are helping neighbouring countries bordering the Republic of Croatia, for example. in the ceasefire in BiH and so on. It's something that's commendable and helps to lift, I'd say trust among nations. And yes, NATO's deployment to Europe must certainly be considered, which the deputy minister mentioned several sentences at the end of her report. What does that mean for Croatia? What will this actually mean for the Croatian Army? What I think Croatia will not be covered by any bases on its territory, any NATO, any third, I don't know, defence alliances, but I am also aware that after the Ukrainian crisis, really a man should ask himself where does NATO go in Europe? After Ukraine, after Crimea, Europe certainly is no longer what it was. What position will the Croatian Army be, what will the meetings bring today, I don't know, in Paris, Obama, European leaders and so on? I suppose that will be discussed in parliament, and as political strategic, I don't know, financial, militaryly reflected in Croatia, it will soon show time. But what's certainly the best that the Croatian Army has at this point, they're not even the planes we own, they're not amphibious, they're not armored vehicles that were mentioned here, they're personnel, they're soldiers, they're officers, they're our officers. And when we talk about the Croatian Army today, I forgot to mention that in missions outside the Republic of Croatia at this time it is somewhere around, I just need to find 900 Croatian members of the Armed Forces, meaning keeping an account, caring about their equipment, it must be that... accent of the Croatian Army, someone mentioned before the canadera, the coast guard, all that will be in order to eliminate some humanitarian disasters in these areas. And that what is certainly important, which is a huge effort, these are peace missions in which I said that, in 2013, it means NATO operations in Afghanistan,... in Kosovo, then operations in Somalia and 6 UN peacekeeping operations, Croatia participates with a total of 931 members, or members of the Armed Forces. I repeat, 931 members or members of the Armed Forces, so you can imagine what it is, in fact, an effort for all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to enable these soldiers, these boys, the girls, to enable everything that is simply at some point necessary for them to live and return healthy from these missions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80768	Thank you. It is up to the HDSSB club and respected Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80769	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Reputed Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here in a relatively short time we have two reports from the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia Annual Defence Report for 2013 which came in time to say and I must really commend that, so to say in the first half of 2014 for the 2013 relatively expeditionive. And we have one report on benches showing the defence and action of the Ministry of Defence in all segments of the often highlighted economic positions and situations to the readiness of the Croatian army, the numbers, the equipment of the Croatian army and all other moments that are numbered here. Maybe I'd start at the end of this report and what maybe nobody's pointed out so far, and so on. extraordinary events in the Croatian military on page 113 can be read. And these extraordinary events were followed from 2002 to 2013 so we can say, for example, In 2002 there were 1.525 extraordinary events, and in 2013, that number was 385, so it was reduced by 4 times and held at 2012 level where there were only 367 so at least in this 13-year-old so to say 2002-2013. 12 years. There is also a specification of these extraordinary events, but what I would particularly point out is that in 2013, 14 extraordinary events with fatalities were recorded. And it's said this, seven members of the Armed Forces died of natural causes of disease, two members of the Armed Forces committed suicide outside the service, and three members of the Armed Forces were killed in accidents outside the service. Also in the Gashinci, a volunteer soldier was killed during training, and one officer, a pyrotechnicist who died in July 2013 and should also say that even though we may be taking statistics, and we do not have them in a comparative sense with other armies perhaps approximately that size, so here are the events that grieve us. 9 therefore abroad, 9 extraordinary events involving 12 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia were recorded in peace support operations. There were 7 extraordinary events in Afghanistan, while the mission at the Golan High School recorded extraordinary events but with no fatal consequences, most important. So we're not going to go into the details of the events now, but here's the thing. What the Deputy Minister Kotromanovic said at the beginning of her presentation, which is that the Croatian Defence Strategy is based on the fact that she is a NATO pact member, is currently not under direct threat of armed aggression, but may be indirectly affected by the consequences of internal instability in the countries of the region. This may be a bit of a diplomatic dictionary, but it should be read from what's being said here. It is clear that everything is simply needed to deepen a little and explain to our citizens what this is all about. So when we talk about the countries of the region a little further, the country of the region would sort of belong to Ukraine, if we know, and we all know that it borders with Hungary and with the Polish EU members and NATO members. And Hungary we know what is the area of how big the country is, so from Croatia, let's say, from Osijek or Dale to the Ukrainian border you have 250km, 200, 250 so where Hungary borders there towards Miskolc east towards Ukraine. And when we go north from our northernmost part and the easternmost again from Baranja through Hungary and Budapest, there and the Czech Republic, they are in Poland for an hour through Tatra High. Ukraine is not so far away from us and this is beautifully and well written, correctly, so due to instability in the countries of the region. I also must mention I do not pronounce here a battle cry, but here the other day we had a friendly visit from the Montenegrin prime minister, President of the Republic of Croatia, where a territorial solution was discussed between Croatia and Montenegro. And what did the Prime Minister say? That we will deal with it in the future with the arbitration agreement, as with Slovenia. I don't know what it really is, I'm not saying, I don't call for the use of the military to understand, even though I was on Fat Hill as a specialist and I saw our artillery well buried, with a certain set of targets in the then state that was with us in the war and which was an aggressor in Croatia, let's not forget that, it was an aggressor on the Dubrovnik coast, on the Konvale, so it occupied the Croatian south. But so easy to agree on, I won't, but I have to comment on such a single sentence on the arbitration agreement for what's Croatian, for what's Croatian, unequivocally Croatian, it's really very strange and I would say amazing, here I don't like it and that, that kind of sentence talks about one thing, it seems to me to be a misunderstanding actually a problem. Bosnia and Herzegovina, we also have problems with Bosnia and Herzegovina, territorial, too, although I am not saying this, because of the use of military force, but let's say that one of the problems is the airport or airport in order to say Bihaća, Želja, where half of our runway belongs to Bosnia and Herzegovina even though it is near and the Udbin airport which has its own strategic significance for the Republic of Croatia. And now we have some, some plans are being heard to be the base of those drones as far as I have information. So, this problem still stands, and as you say instability, so here you see, we see what is happening in Kosovo, what happens in Bosnia and Herzegovina during those demonstrations, which they were shaped, which direction they were going, which... demonstrations, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But that's what the military secret service and SOA know more about. I guess they follow the situation, they don't follow us all the time, but they probably follow what they're in charge of. So this amount of 4.5 billion kuna plus 5, is 505 million without a line and with a line, and therefore from 4.5 billion kuna that has been reduced, so the plan was 4 billion 800, the rebalance has been reduced to 4.5 billion and which is also 1.34% of GDP. Someone here is calling for that GDP. And GDP keeps falling. So if we had 1.41 as it was in 2012, that amount would be lower because GDP has fallen and the goal, the only goal is actually GDP growth, and then, if we kept the same rate of 1.34 as in 2013 that amount would be greater. Unfortunately, this is the case, the GDP drop and the nominal drop from 1.41 to 1.44% of GDP has fallen and the GDP has decreased further, the budget allocations for the Ministry of Defence, the equipment of the Croatian Army, for the safety of Croatian soldiers and for everything it provides in international relations through NATO and the United Nations missions, but what it provides and for which it thanks them from all heart to, to tell domestic missions from fire-fighting, fire-fighting, from rescue to stormy islands, transporting patients when there is no one else to transport patients, then there is our Croatian Army. And of those who are adventurous in the mood and are lost and only the Croatian military can help them in that case with either their helicopters or their skills as a trained Croatian soldier who can intervene. That's what the data and statistics here were about, so I wouldn't repeat myself. Now, the latest situation has been with what, you don't know what's worse if the fire, somehow you can get away from the flood, you don't stand a chance. Only when we imagine the breach and the flood of that water is whether, and the Croatian Army as counterpart Baranović said with this outdated technology but only effective because no Patria could enter that area with such high water or water in the village, either in Gunja, or in Rajev village, Račinovci, Đurići, Strošinci, but only an amphibious vehicle and this on the caterpillars precisely because of its weight and its manoeuvring abilities and its size to which it has transported and evacuated all those who have been in life danger in the area of the cavefery so that I repeat that we do not have to name all these names, that is all the cvefery. I'm saying the statistics themselves, they're already talking here the other one, the only thing I've noticed is that on Dance is building and that with NATO's help the pact will be communication, I wouldn't, I don't know, I don't even know 10 letters, but let's call a communication centre precisely about what will possibly be on Udbina, possibly still think it's not a finished thing on Udbina for drones to build a base so and a very important communication centre. Finally, it seems to me that both in NATO and globally, Croatia, has an excellent geostrategic position. And this investment in this communication centre in Velika Gorica in the airport of Pleso, so there is also something to be mentioned in the military port and what is very important for the Republic of Croatia. What we did this year and last had doubts about the Ministry of Defence and its efficiency are these planes, MiG-21 aircraft that were on the remont, repair and equipment in Ukraine which, at the wrong moment, entered the civil war of the east of Ukraine with this western part where the capital of Kiev and Odessa, where the base for repair and remonting aircraft in the zone where the prospect of conflicts, which thank God didn't work on this remont, but it seems to me that pretty much extended that remont. I've heard on TV statements from the commander of the Air Force and that's why it's happening, but it seems to me that these deadlines are really broken and there's some kind of contract, an agreement on whether or not there are some kind of pens on the part of the one who requested the purchase of the Republic of Croatia which is, in fact, the party in this process of repairing, the equipment of the aircraft, the MiG-21 which, therefore, we find out from this report 5+7 so about 12 MiGs 21. What I'd like to say is what's local to my neighborhood, and that's Patria.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80770	You won't be able to say that because the time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80771	It's a shame I can't talk about Patria a little bit, but good.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80772	Schedule time Thank you very much. ... [[Intruding Grubisic: In the replicas we will.]] On behalf of the Club of Jadranka Kosor and HGS, the esteemed Jadranka Kosor will speak. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80773	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. I will refer my principled objection, as always with such documents, since it is a report on the work of an extremely important not only ministry, but a segment in the Government of the Republic of Croatia but, of course, in the life of the Republic of Croatia, it would be good for the defence minister to be with us and for the defence minister to answer some key questions that all predecessors have raised so far, and that is the budget. So how to survive, how to stay and how to improve the system if the budget is reduced year by objective reasons. So here's what I'm proposing to the President of the Parliament to do is to make sure that the ministers are with us in the future for a year. This will give credibility to the additional system, but of course also to the Croatian Assembly, with all respect and respect for the deputy lady who is with us and respect for her expertise. So this is a great, transparent, comprehensive report that didn't put anything under the carpet, which came out with complete and real facts, with relevant data and of course we should welcome it and we will accept it. This is an opportunity to remind us that here we have recently marked another anniversary of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to NATO, so not NATO Pact, because lately some politicians have been calling for cold war terminology. It's not the NATO Pact. It's the NATO Alliance. We have worked hard and hard for this and it was one of the last, with the entry into the European Union, the consensus in the Republic of Croatia. A great deal of work was to be done, all of us and the presidents of the states and all governments were involved, and this is something that must encourage us to work better, harder and more responsibly with minimum agreements and to solve economic problems because joining the NATO alliance did not come on its own and on its own but needed to overcome and solve many problems, as well as about joining the European Union. This is certainly an opportunity because it is also part of the report, but it is not to thank again all members of the Armed Forces who took part in the rescue and recovery of damage in Slavonia as a result of the flood, however, in all other crisis situations related to both droughts and the transport of patients. According to all relevant research, I recently saw at a gathering that was with another purpose, or another occasion, research into the reputation of the society of members of individual groups. Politicians have the slightest reputation, the least reputation and the least confidence, and at the very top of that ladder is still an army. So this also obliges us to decide when we discuss the budget and budget allocations to take care of it because we politicians now on the scales of society should decide on those at the very top of the scales to respect society and that is something that absolutely must bind us. And that is why I would also like Mr. Kotromanović to be with us, both as a Croatian defender and as a responsible person today in the ministry. Of course thanks and, of course, to members of the Croatian Armed Forces who still serve peace and defence throughout the world today. Always, even in 2013 they were recognized, recognized, respected, professional, conscious, responsible, and true soldiers. Many of them today are Croatian defenders, therefore, and members of the peace force once, not long ago, were Croatian defenders. I believe that gives them extra strength in the work they're doing. So the budget of 4 and a half billion we saw has dropped by 1.41% compared to 2012. And Mrs. Deputy pointed out that further reduction shouldn't happen. However, I am very pessimistic in this regard to how we will ensure this when the budget continues to have to be reduced, when the budget will continue to enter into all possible scissors, since we as a state have to reach master criteria in less than two years. Therefore, according to what we have now received as an EU task, i.e. the European Commission and the Council. So it's going to be a very, very difficult job, even though the data on that we're somewhere in the middle of an isolation can be some kind of comfort. I would like to point out here in terms of praise since it is very precisely presented and the budget is intended to support peace, namely crisis response and humanitarian surgery in 2013. So there's been savings in these operations. Two hundred and twelve million kunas were foreseen, and just over 209 million kunas were spent. So there's been savings. It is worth just as much as any commendation as that part of the report on gender equality in the Armed Forces. So, especially the fact that in the category of state officials women account for almost 43%. In the ministry's management section, 36 is almost 37%. That's good, of course, but it has to be improved by a percentage in the Armed Forces where 5.62%, of course, of course, is for understandable reasons. However, this is not part of this report by the way. It is extremely important because the Armed Forces are precisely because military work is perceived by extremely male work it is good for that part of the report to take a special place. Because we talk about equality and equality a lot, we often talk about it in the assembly. Many politicians swear, but often keep the figure in their pocket. And it is good that the government, or the Ministry of Defence in this composition, has continued some of the projects of the last government, the past ministry, the former defence minister and the fighting armored vehicles and patrol ships and others not to count them now. This is an opportunity to mention because we're talking about the budget, we're actually talking about the economy, we're talking about NATO membership. We didn't take advantage of that chance of NATO membership and some economic projects, and we couldn't do much better. And I'm pointing out here some people who have broken into exactly that kind of military market, Mr. Sixan, who is famous in the world for the production of helmets. So, the man or the entire company, all the work of him and his family, shows how it can be done, how it can be done, and how in this very closed circle it can be broken, it can achieve a great result. My colleague Cain mentioned some others, HS product etc. Thus, we are well - known and recognized in this world because of individuals who work well. In the end, Croatia knows and knows well the meaning of security and freedom, so we should recognize it when we will next raise our hands for the budget of the Republic of Croatia. We will certainly accept the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80774	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers – the parties of work will speak for the respected Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80775	Honored Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. So here I am, at the beginning, going to relate to my predecessor, that is, her opening part regarding the presence of not only this minister. As much as this minister is least controversial to me, but generally to the presence of ministers when some important topics are here. There are some ministers we can't see, not just here. We can't even see them on board. Normally, our people say everyone scratches where it it itches. I will re-absorb the respected Hajdas Doncic, who has not been able to appear for two and a half years at a session of the Committee on Maritime Transport and Infrastructure. The predecessors had already all mentioned that it was about the end of the opening part the deputy minister said and wrote in this material, it was about a new report, a new methodology, and my personal opinion that it was quality made, that really at the top level is this form of report, but also the quality of production itself. At first, I will immediately take this opportunity to thank all members of the Armed Forces for their contribution to these developments of the last ones, which, unfortunately, were in the heat of the entire country's floods in these flooded areas. And to move on to this, to this very problem, that is, this topic. The deputy minister said one fact which sounded so conveniently to me and really seems to be something positive, it is that with the difficult situation, with the crisis that we are in, with a recession that has already kept us 10 quarters if I am not wrong in the order that we are 10 countries by the separation of 28 countries. That data itself sounds very good, sounds pleasant to the ear but now that we return everything we've heard, it's all downsizing, what's less separated through this year, that we're practically getting further away from those let's say drawn or targeted recommended 2% separation. Unfortunately, everything in the country is about money and we're aware of the situation we are in and it's hard to expect the situation to change so soon. But the result is a state of technique and equipment that my colleague Baranovic spoke of most. I sign everything he said without any fence. But now that I'm not repeating that same story, that's unfortunately the reality. Reality is also that through NATO or through other associations, we have had some opportunities, some opportunities. It is also a reality that unfortunately we have not exploited them or used them to a sufficient extent. In doing so, I think of our economy and it is not very directly related to this report and in general to the ministry but it is the reality that should not be silenced. It's not a criticism, it's a simple fact. I think that regardless of the political option, we should all try to change something about this plan together. There is a chance, and although we are small players, although it is all handled mostly by large world players, it is undeniable that opportunities are created and largely untapped. Is there a possibility or was there a lack of cooperation between individual ministries, did it take a little more coordination around some joint appearances, the use of certain infrastructures or certain positions to enable others? I'm sure it is, but we can only find out that we haven't really fulfilled everything we could. Since a lot of things have been said about the report itself, I immediately commended the report, I will not go further into some analysis, but I will look back at some of the life-threatening problems that arise from, which people are experiencing within this ministry. You remember that last year we had a debate, that is, with the last report, what with those soldiers who are on the contract, who are coming out of the second contract, or the other one has been cancelled. So there was this one particular vacuum if I wasn't wrong for three months. What about these people, what's their perspective? If I remember correctly, the first contract was signed for three years, the second for five years, and then it came under certain circumstances to end those contracts. One part of these people was re-invited and activated and signed with them a contract, if I recall being well-informed, for six years. And now, I'm asking myself a question to you, but first of all, to the ministry if we take a normal life cycle that's after the end of that 6-year contract, it's going to be people about 35 years old. What's next with them? According to this current situation, practically 35-year-olds will not have the opportunity to extend the contract, not that they will not have, but will not be extended to them according to what is now. And I think that Croatian people at the age of 35 are in full strength who are trained and trained in a way that they should. At the same time, these people, not only them, are practically through the system disabled progress, and there is not some particular criticism to the ministry but in general the situation in Croatia that very often we have a negative selection. And then it happens to us that people who are educated and educated will show up as perspective because of something or someone leaving the system they are in, going out of the country, going to some other waters, and we're going to have a bar that we're waking up to not always at the highest level. I hope the ministry finds some solutions to these examples that I have mentioned. But I also have some really bizarre examples that have been delivered to me. I hope this is changing, or if I'm being manipulated to correct me. But let's say there were soldiers under contract, so contractors, they're not allowed to travel by military bus lines. So there's a paradox going on, say, at the same bus stop, there's a contract soldier standing there. There's a bus, military, officers and officers inside, soldiers staying and waiting for a regular line. At the same time, that same bus leaves half empty. I mean if that's really true then we really, not to say with some bizarre examples we went too far. There are some other cases they've given me, which I find really hard to believe, but I have no reason to doubt, and now if it's a misinformation, I'd like you to deny me. There are reportedly three types of cards, green, blue and orange cards. And now watch this, one only has the right to the main dish, the other to the main dish and salad, and the third to the soup. Well, I mean, if it's really hard for me to believe that this is true. But if it's true, so I think it's inappropriate to find another way, another solution, this as ugly as it sounds to me, I believe to all of you. I'm going to look back at one more part of the opening presentation of the distinguished pronoun, the improvement in public procurement, which is, in the rest, in this text. Well, I absolutely welcome it and welcome the transparency that has been highlighted, but on a few occasions, I ran into the texts that refer to the Plekler company. Although the company Plekler is 100 per cent owned by the Republic of Croatia as far as I know it, the media warns, now whether it is well-intentioned or just to find out that this company is charging for a full service and using water, electricity and everything else for free, even allegedly all these machines. It's about a company that's in charge of some logistics, so, among other things, it's about nutrition, laundry and these parts it deals with. I don't know if it's crucial now that they still charge the HV and a piece of laundry, whether it's the most transparent and happiest solution I'm not sure about, but I noticed, otherwise I'm against the market regulating everything and there's no self-regulatory market no matter how much we keep quiet about it. I think even in order to, let's say the demystification of that case might not be with the worse sense of what it's all about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80776	Thank you. Replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80777	Thank you very much. Comrade Novak, I'll try in two minutes three things you've said to comment and replicate. In fact, you mentioned at the beginning of a speech by Hajdaša-Dončić, the Minister of Transport and what kind of traffic, the question is what he has to do with the Ministry of Defence and Defence. Well, there's something about Đura Djakovic's wagons being ordered by the Ministry of Transport, ordering but never having orders, and Đuro Đakovic is also producing patricium. The same Djuro Djakovic is in losses with 124 million kuna and here is the ministry of Mr Maras suspending HBOR's loan to Djuru Djakovic of 150 million kuna. So I'm wondering what's gonna happen to the patricians, and the cars are already known. Is there another analogy between HZ-carg and Djura Djakovic, or Patria? That's what they'll talk about later, there's some analogies. Secondly, me, what you said, if that's true, it reminds me of the age of racial discrimination. That soldiers, contracted soldiers are driven by regular lines and officers, officers by military bus, and that there are such blue, green and orange cards. It is just a reminder of a period of some racial discrimination that in our Croatian army there should not be. Of course, I don't think so, but that's what the deputy's gonna tell us about. And thirdly, this Player you were talking about reminds me very much of the outsourcing hospital or the schools about which these days are being conducted and the petitioning action to conduct a referendum against it, andpleter should not be outsourcing the Croatian Army.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80778	The line matches the esteemed Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80779	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, fellow Grubisic, you started with Hajdash, so I'll start with Hajdash. The fact is that I mentioned it in context, at the end of the day as well as, I was referring to my predecessor for the presence of ministers normally at Parliament meetings, but since you've already apostropheeded him in something else then I must say that yesterday I received an e-mail, an appeal from the workers of Gredel to keep 250 of most production workers out of work, even though the prime minister responded a few days ago to the current morning that most of these companies with fewer employees were working successfully. Gredel is certainly not in the story, nor is Djuro Djakovic. As far as this part of the report is concerned, I immediately fenced myself and said I couldn't easily believe it was true, but that's the information that was delivered to me. And you rightly warn that it is a certain division that is, not only hard to believe, but simply inadmissible. If there's any truth to it, then it's really a disaster for the whole system. I hope you'll convince us that you're going to deny this, I just can't believe that something like this exists, but if I'd like to hear it for what. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80780	Thank you. There's been a single debate reported. Dear colleague Davor Bozinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80781	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister. Here I would also start with the expressions and thanks and congratulations to the members of the Armed Forces on everything they do, especially what they did and are still doing about the solving of the tragedy that struck Slavonia, or Slavonic Posavina. With all those characteristics that have determined their ability to face this kind of elemental disaster, with their willingness, discipline, patriotism, I would say two more that are very important. The armed forces are actually the first institution in an independent Croatian state to start real reform and secondly, an institution that has never stopped this reform process and that is one of the reasons why they still act as the most organised state institution today. As far as this report is concerned, I share mainly the views of all my partners, the speakers on behalf of the clubs and what the deputy minister was saying, I support this new approach which is more analytical than the previous reports, and especially the fact that it is trying to deal with directions, key directions for the development of the Armed Forces. It is a bit unfortunate that we are talking today about a strategic context that is linked to 2013, and it has changed significantly in these 5 months 2014, given the crisis in Ukraine, given the disappearance, if you will, of post-cold-war status... in international relations, but that is so. However, as we are already talking about key trends and developmental definitions, then the Croatian Parliament is also a place to talk about it because everything that is happening within the NATO alliance, within the EU, is going on according to specific strategic guidelines. In 2010, NATO set three priorities for the next period, which is the development of forces, which is strengthening interoperability, training of member states' forces, but this is also the third, third task is to increase the visibility of NATO alliances in the Member States. And if you compare this with what was said on the other day from the top of the US administration by President Obama in Warsaw, about investing, or asking for the permission of a billion dollar congress to strengthen NATO's presence, especially in the new member states, that's where the Baltic States and Poland are primarily thought of, then we see that everything is going on in some kind of strategic, according to some kind of strategic guidelines despite some events like Ukraine couldn't predict. Why does it matter? Well, it's very important that other countries that have less experience in strategic planning follow these main trends. In this particular case, when we talk about increasing visibility in Poland, Defence Minister Hagel said this is the most relevant to the command of the multinational North-East Corps, and we know that it is part of the Corps and the Croatian military police platoon, and the Corps has become fully operational already last year. So the defense must be looked at strategically and must be approached in a way that needs it in the job, in this process all resolutions must be included, it cannot be left to the Ministry of Defence alone. It's a job involving other resistors, but it concerns, above all, coordination at the head of the executive government. There is no modern defense without using all the key capacities of society, whether they are scientific, economic, informative and so on. That is why even today when we are in front of... in Wales, I recommend the Government to create an interresor group that will be coordinated at the top, which will first of all make a political decision about achieving an increase, a gradual increase in the defence budget, and then to devote the group to a concrete solution to the problem in order to achieve a contribution to that goal and third, in fact becoming the basis of a new long-term plan for the development of the Armed Forces, we have seen here that the draft has been completed, however, the draft was almost 2013; things are changing, as the deputy minister said, NATO will make some more concrete decisions, primarily related to strengthening training activities, strengthening training, but also strengthening investment in defence, especially when we talk about the European NATO alliances. So, one needs to be changed, I'd say, yet the wrong logic is that the defense represents the cost. The defense cost because if it were a cost then the most developed countries would not have an army because they would give up that cost. It's just happening the other way around, they have the most developed army and they invest most in defense because these are the countries that put the defense in a wider national context. So, you can't develop research and development potential through the Ministry of Defense, and that's where the Ministry of Science has to be attached to its policy. You can't have small and medium-sized enterprises as much as we mention and congratulate both Sixan and HS Produkt without a single state strategy today, especially when and within the framework of NATO, especially within the EU, opportunities to co-finance from European defence-related companies. You cannot talk about the development of state information infrastructure, we discussed it a few days ago in the Croatian Parliament that you do not have a designed cyber defence system and that the Ministry of Defence is not involved. So what we're missing, but not just in defense, but today we're talking about defense, that's that there's no horizontal connection between the resistors. The deputy minister is here, and the report speaks about it has highlighted special co-operation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Interior, the State Protection and Rescue Administration. And we will have modern defence when we talk about strong ties between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Science, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Small and Medium Enterprises. This part about co-operation with the Ministry of Science about pre-graduate studies is not what I'm aiming at. I'm talking about the real use of all the intellectual potentials of this country to defend themselves in the sector, and the defense is the assumption of any development beginning to benefit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80782	Thank you, too. Final address of Deputy Secretary of Defense. Here you go, Mrs. Tafra.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80783	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would like to thank all MPs and MPs for their comments, criticisms, suggestions, and the commendations you have given us on this report. I'll start with what you talked about most, and that's a matter of budget. just as I said in my final presentation that neither the Ministry of Defence nor anyone in it can and is not satisfied with the level of the defence budget and that we would certainly be happy and most fortunate that it is greater to enable us to develop much more capabilities that we want to develop, but also to modernise in which the Croatian Army has a need for it. However, not out of justification, but out of the need to show you how many other states are singled out. We only mentioned here the fact that the Republic of Croatia singles out 1.34 and 1.37% in the last year compared to its GDP. I'm just going to tell you here that NATO's request is to single out 2%. However, only three NATO allies stand out 2% and these are the United Kingdom, the United States and Greece, close to Estonia. And there's a growing number of countries that stand out below 1% of GDP. So it's about Spain, Luxembourg, Lithuania, Latvia, Hungary. Slovakia is at 1%, Italy and Bulgaria at 1.06%. This is not an excuse, but I simply wanted you to remember that you might understand what frameworks and what efforts the Ministry of Defence is facing to maintain the capabilities it now has within truly limited financial opportunities. As far as your objections are concerned, and a lot of Parliamentarians have mentioned the concept of reserve and the lack of reserve from the Homeland War as an adopted concept in the Armed Forces, I must tell you that we have also worked on it. But since this was not done last year, only this year, on 24 March 2014, the President of the Republic made a new decision on the size, composition and mobilization of the Armed Forces of the Republic, for the first time since the Homeland War, was foreseen that the Armed Forces consisted of the Active and Reserve configuration and what most of you mentioned in that decision is the estimated number of persons employed by the military until 2017 at the number of 15 thousand. However, the decision also provides for 21 thousand members of the Reserve, of which up to a thousand contractual reserves and up to 20,000 sorted reserves. What we intend to do, and you all know this is that in the mobilization development of the Croatian Land Army, we intend to establish a walking regiment with headquarters in Zagreb, the second in Osijek, the Karlovac, Split, Dubrovnik, the top-ranket regiment in Đakov, the top-ranket regiment in Knin, the anti-air defence regiment in Velika Gorica, an engineering battle based in Karlovac and a combat link with the seat in Velika Gorica, also a logistics regiment based in Zagreb. It will not be easy because it requires funding, but by the end of the year one of the reserve units will surely be provided and equipped by the end of the year to show that the Armed Forces are also thinking about the concept, which means the concept of the reserve. You've all mentioned here that he's been developed so that at this point, it means when a disaster occurred he could help us mean in the area of disaster, or flood-hazarded areas. However, I am sorry that none of you have mentioned what has no longer to do with the defence, which is that no one has mentioned that the Republic of Croatia does not have a well-developed civil protection system that should react before the defence system itself. Everyone forgets it means that the Republic of Croatia has a state-run protection and rescue authority which is primarily responsible for the activities in the areas of disaster, disaster, flood and major technological accidents. Armed forces are those to whom it is the third task in carrying out their constitutional role, and they should come as help in the end. We understand when that system isn't developed, so we've become involved means to the best and fastest through the indicators I've told you, I have many more, but I don't think there's any need to give them to you, that we've responded means the challenges that have been put before us. Mr Djakic mentioned here that the question of cars, lying, spending money is not needed. I have a need to answer that the Department of Defense was really very modest in that. If you noticed the Ministry of Defence was not on the list of names that took unnecessary cars and spent money on them, simply the Ministry of Defence is trying to mean the cars that it has on operational Leasing and also all other non-colored motor vehicles obtain in a way that may not be absolutely the best but enables us to function. So you could see in the report yourself that the Armed Forces had resorted to taking used vehicles from the Federal Republic of Germany. And I must also tell you that 27 trucks have already been brought to the Republic of Croatia, they have been remounted not in Germany but in the Republic of Croatia to employ the capacity of the domestic industry and that 27 are currently in operation. Some of you, if you were on Jarun for the Day of the Armed Forces, you could see them. They'll cost you 17,000 euros per piece, which is 6.5 times less than getting a new vehicle. As far as the Peregrin Remont is concerned, we've also entered it, it's going to cost about 130 million kuna and from the coalition fund, so we're going to withdraw 78 million kuna from the coalition force fund, the rest going to be spent by the Ministry of Defence. Mr. Honorable Representative Cain spoke of leaving the Ministry of Defence's unspective properties. The Ministry of Defence has been doing this for years, until a time, it has also taught directly to local self-government units. However, according to the new law, which regulates the management of state property, the Ministry of Defence, means that real estate can be handed over exclusively to DUDI, which will then decide what will continue to be in place with the inspective properties of the Ministry of Defence. As for extraordinary events, Mr. Boro Grubisic mentioned them, I must say that in the coming year we will change even the methodology of extraordinary events because in my opinion the extraordinary event is something that happened in relation to the service itself. Here in the report we have what is not related to the service itself, so it seems that these extraordinary events are more, natural death is an event, especially outside the service, but certainly cannot go into the definition of an extraordinary event. So for the next report that part of the methodology will be prepared. Military call, we all know it's a military call and it's hard and it's just as dangerous. And unfortunately, we've had several fatalities that we may have had and may not have been able to influence. But I think that, compared to other countries that have, we are in no worse position than the size of the armed forces as the Republic of Croatia. As for the MiG 21 remont, whether or not a contract is concluded that will allow the Republic of Croatia to collect foams due to delays in the delivery of the MiG's contract is made, the foams are foreseen. Normally we expect that the opposite side will mean calling for something that is called a higher power for them at this point, but surely we will strive for all legal means that the money that belongs to us because of the delay has really happened, we have no reason to hide it from you, you are aware of all of it, the media has written about it, so we will charge for the penalty. To answer to Mrs. Jadranka Kosor's lack of defence ministers today in this distinguished House I can tell you, unfortunately I have to say that yesterday is only yesterday, we were following the agenda when the annual report will take place, but yesterday we suddenly moved the agenda and yesterday we were somewhere around 13 hours only informed that we would be first today, so on the agenda today on Friday. And that prevented it, only that prevented the Secretary of Defense from being here today because he was planning commitments he couldn't postpone today and because of too short a deadline. We even had a request to ask for the report to move on Wednesday. so that he may be present, but we are not permitted to do so [[Intruder: Please colleagues and colleagues.]] As far as the military industry is concerned, you mentioned here that, although it is not with us, it is with us that we from the military industry buy especially Croatian equipment. [[Intruder: Let the Deputy Minister speak to the end.]] However, I must say here that the defence minister and co-workers are using every opportunity at international meetings or when they go to other countries for bilateral meetings to bring with them a manufacturer of military equipment and present the products that the Republic of Croatia has to offer to other partners. As for Mr. Novak's debate on which he referred direct questions, and the questions here were, I'm going to go in a row, meaning the possibility of a third contract. I don't know maybe you weren't following us, but when the Defense Act was passed we explained the terms of the third contract. Something happened to us that we couldn't influence, and it was a break for the people who got the possibility of making a contract, but unfortunately we have persons who weren't allowed to enter into a third contract, and I'm going to tell you what the reasons are. The reasons for this were that they were severely punished primarily, that they committed some serious offenses and mistakes, which they received in the meantime some criminal and criminal charges. So the Department of Defense has made the criteria transparent, which are the reasons why a soldier can't be extended to a third contract. We're just like you got a lot of objections about it. You had people on the second contract who were on sick leave for two years. It's normal for us to refer them to a medical examination then and conclude that they are no longer candidates to have a third contract. Your question is what will happen to the persons who will be able to complete three contracts, and we have explained this in the adoption of the Defence Act. So when the person who's a soldier finishes the third contract, along with the benefited internship that will belong to her if she worked at the workplace she'll realize it means a minimum retirement period of 20 years that will allow her to retire under a special law, means sending active military personnel into retirement can go into retirement. That will most likely change. Unfortunately, I have to tell you today that this system will change for reasons because Minister Mrsic announces changes in the pension system and our special law will also be subject to changes in the pension system, but we will try to make sure that our soldiers who will go out in the years you spoke of get something that we will call a partial pension during the service so that we can go to another career and get a job with a new employer. Your question further, as you have called it, means bizarre examples, and bizarre examples are that a soldier cannot enter a bus to transport by military-line transport. There's something I have to explain to you, so the Department of Defense has entered into reforms in a way that is trying to literally save every kuna and treat it rationally. So far, the professional army has thought that when he's a professional soldier, he'll go home to sleep every day, and he'll be a professional soldier. And in the Armed Forces, it happened that you would have more than tens of thousands of people per day on buses on the way from your domicile places to the military. For a professional soldier, a decision has been made that a professional soldier must be in the military during his service. If that's 3 days, 3 days, if it's 5 days, 5 days. The one who left, and we know about these remarks, he tries to get on that bus in the morning and use it and thus increase the daily capacity of what the Ministry of Defence paid to the contractor. I know that reforms are sometimes difficult, people are having a hard time getting used to new circumstances, but trust me because of the savings we're trying to get, you'll have a situation that soldiers will sometimes be at the gym for 7 days, and 7 days will be at home, and it will be just as much work time as it will be redistributed because the army will be in red, green and yellow. It's the way all professional armies work. So far, we've moved on to a professional system, but overall, we haven't acted in part as if it were a professional army. Your food-related question. I must warn you that before we did, the Government passed the Law of Service in the Armed Forces in which only one part of the Armed Forces had the right to eat, and the other part of the Armed Forces had no right to eat at all. We tried to correct it, but we also looked at it in a way that the new Law on Service in the Armed Forces prescribed by individuals who have absolutely the right to a free diet, which persons in part participate in the diet during and only for those soldiers who are on duty from 8 to 4 as well as officials' duties, i.e. the duties of officials and deputies. What you're mentioning is that he didn't get a salad, he didn't get a salad for reasons because he didn't want to participate with 2 kuna or 1.5 kuna as much as it was about that salad. Your question is that everyone is asking you what's going on with Platter. So we have to tell you that the Platter company we see as a successful example and we regret that the Government does not use the Platter example in presenting to others how savings can be achieved. It seems very unusual to everyone when it is said that the Ministry of Defense is being told that another company is doing food, cleaning, and washing. But I will tell you here from this place responsiblely that the Food Ministry of Defense cost you about 2010 220 million kuna. The Department of Defence's diet is now being paid by Platter 86 million kuna. And don't forget when others tell you that they haven't paid us or that they're not paying us for electricity, water or electricity, the Platter company has taken over all the employees of the Department of Defense who worked and the Armed Forces on these jobs as permanent employment in Platter. And right now, the software company has about 900 employees. You must be aware that they must likewise survive on the market. They are a state-owned company. They don't mean any big profit target, but they normally have to do profit business. What our revision is just as much as you asked me to do, and we're going to fix it just the same way, so that means that in part because there's no more compensation, we can't compensate, so now we calculate because we have technical problems in the kitchens where they cook our detachment facilities means infrastructure itself because it requires a lot of money. So an agreement has been reached which parts of the infrastructure will be paid directly, which means gas, water and something else for the amount of estimated electricity consumption, water and electricity compared to what the Ministry of Defence will pay for the activities, or for their services that they provide. The story is that the Player will follow the sheets for us is true. The closet for us is washing sheets because it's much more rational for the Department of Defense, because believe me before you had the situation that you have employed three women and six kilos of laundry a week in Dugi Selo. It is truly considered irrational and this Ministry of Defence and in this segment shows rationality and that, within the framework of the budgets that we have, we can move. Mr Bozinovic, an honourable representative, spoke about the government's recommendation regarding the inter-resor group in order to achieve the goal. And I will convey that message if the members of the government didn't listen to this debate today we think we should discuss it the same way as we discussed on the Defence Committee, meaning the very position, meaning the Republic of Croatia at the upcoming summit in Wales. It means putting up some positions in relation to the topics that are expected to be discussed. Croatia already has clear views on our detention and on what conditions. It is logical that this crisis in Ukraine that showed all its elements and vulnerability I will call one system will need there to define what with the defence budgets of countries and therefore is a requirement for governments and presidents of states to point to the unsustainability of the current level of budget so that it can grow. And the current crisis in Ukraine has also shown the need to think about the deployment, meaning NATO forces, because these days it has been visiting the official Deputy Minister of Lithuania with whom I have openly talked about where the Baltic countries are, we can definitely say that in great fear and expect the assistance of NATO's alliance, which means the possibility of moving forces into their areas of potential threat that could happen. Excuse me if I'm someone's question, I haven't answered it completely. But since I see you have other obligations here I thank you for your attention and thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80784	Thank you, Deputy Minister. We have one replica, Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80785	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Madam Deputy Minister, you've explained everything to us, we've got it all figured out. We are aware that the budget is reduced, that there is not enough money, that savings have been made in the Ministry of Defence. But you haven't answered whether our rocket cannons are actually sailing without adequate missiles. We know that 67% of the defence budget is spent on wages to spend on the rest of the budget on food. We are equally aware that even praise the valuable fire-fighting activities that are being carried out as well as these anti - floods cost. We are aware of all this, but the defense system with those things that are adequate and necessary to be remounted must be supplied and must not be ignored in any way, since this means that rocket gunners without rockets represent nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80786	Thank you. Answer, please, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80787	Here's a thank you, dear representative Djakic, for reminding me that I didn't answer your question. I wrote it down, but unfortunately I skipped it. So in 2014 these days, it means the Ministry of Defence in considering the process of remonting RBS rockets. That's about to cost you a little over 32 million. We expect an assessment, meaning our Swedish partners on the possibility of remonting for money that we will invest to see what would be the resource and the possibility of using it. So we haven't forgotten about that segment either. I'm the only one who forgot to answer. The truth is, the RBS missiles you've been talking about here for two years are in a state where they are. But we've got the strength this year, so we're going to consider the possibility means their remont. We hope to succeed in this, and since we have insufficient financial resources, which is what we expect the estimated value of the remont is over 32 million kuna. It means we'd ask the government for years of funding.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80788	I thank the Deputy Minister. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later, and now we'll go to the vote on the debated points.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-06-0.u80789	Annual defence report for 2013. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the Defence Committee as the parent working body of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Annual Defence Report for 2013 is hereby adopted". Please state who's to conclude? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 96 votes, the proposed conclusion has been reached. Dear fellow MPs, respected fellow MPs, today we will stop with the work of the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. We announce continued work on Wednesday 11th of June this year at 9.30 p.m. by default. And we start with the point of the draft interest law, first reading, P.Z. No. 664. Every good thing. I'll see you Monday at clubs and committees. Session adjourned at 13.25 p.m. Dear colleagues of the MPs and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, we continue with the plenary session of the 13th session of the Croatian Parliament with the established agenda and the announced agenda point. - Proposed interest laws, first reading, P.Z. No. 664 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament relating to the first reading of the law apply to the adoption of this law. These are the provisions of Articles 183 to 188. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Minister Boris Lalovec. I'm listening. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker.
