ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u64348	On behalf of the club, I'd like to ask for a 15-minute break regarding an alarming situation with 120,000 tons of barbarian junk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u64349	Okay. What can I say? We're 45 here. Nine and 45. Club All right, all right. [[Intruder: Boro Grubišić.]] HDSSB club, Croatian Labour Club on the same thing. Is it about the same thing? We stay with that, at 9:45 p.m. and 45 p.m. The Respiro deadline lasts 10 minutes, if you'll pick up. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. Okay. Okay, well, I understand, colleague Cain, I understand, you have... For what? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Comrade Cain, is it the same darkness? So what's the topic? ... [[Intruder Cain: No.]] Your responsibility, colleagues and colleagues, is your responsibility for every spoken word and proposed subject in the House as well as mine. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] This is a practice you use in a way that is not quite suitable for parliamentary debate. Okay, at 9:00 and 45, we'll get back to work. It's 9:00.33. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] We have a situation that I was warned that a new club of representatives was established in the Croatian Parliament and that new club in the person of MP Martincevic asked for a break to bring one problem out of its region. Honorable representative Natalija Martincevic on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u64351	Dear President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here we are today in Croatia at the heart of a burning and growing waste problem that unfortunately the government has not yet begun to solve. The situation is particularly alarming exactly in Varazdin which is why I asked for a break, and conveniently because the representatives of the ministry here are determined to have the opportunity to once again be alerted to this extremely important problem. In the town of Varazdin, we have 120 thousand tons of garbage at the entrance to Varazdin, in the water protection area of the waste that has been suffocating the built city of Varazdin for years and the waste that is actually one big ecological bomb for both the town of Varazdin and the whole region. Zmajlovic, 27.11., was in Varazdin County, annulled the concession conducted by the town of Varazdin and said that he and the ministry will personally solve the problem of the Varazdin waste within 6 months. Since then, four months have passed and the ministry has not even called the competition yet. There was one attempt two weeks ago that was immediately annulled. I am particularly warning this because when the town of Varazdin carried out the concession procedure, the public tender procedure lasted a year. A complete tender was taken down by a company which was found by the Public Procurement Commission to have no legal interest. So if a company that has no legal interest has managed to stop solving the problem of the varazdin waste for a year, what will it be now that if a tender is opened, when the company that received the concession in the ordinary procedure will complain, which will be fully responsible and sued. So right now we in Varazdin have 120,000 tons of garbage that we don't have any solution for, we don't know when it's going to be solved, how it's going to be solved, and how much of it will eventually be paid by the citizens of the city of Varazdin. Now, however, the situation is going on in Varazdin driving trash from 550km away in Makarska and it actually shows the complete absurdity of this situation in which we are currently in place. Today, the cities and municipalities of the local self-government unit are responsible for waste management, which is clear that they have neither the capacity nor the financial opportunities to solve this problem, and of course they are guided by politics only not in my yard, which is, of course, logical, but the situation has now come to an end. And now perhaps there are also Varazdin and Makarska and Trogir and Rijeka, but there is only the tip of the iceberg. Waste in Croatia cannot be solved below 800,000 people, it is an optimum that is the experience of the EU, that is the first thing. The second thing is that today in Croatia, 92% of the garbage is being solved by dumps, while in the EU the average is 40%. And the third key thing is that there are currently 4.5m euros available in the EU to address this problem that we have not taken a single euro from. So the full responsibility for solving this problem is in the government and I ask for the first urgent solution to the burning problems in Croatia, starting with the town of Varazdin where the minister has already taken over the obligation and responsibility, the legal framework that the state assumes responsibility for solving the problem of garbage because it is clear that cities and municipalities cannot except to bury as they do so far and an exact waste management plan with clear solutions, with responsible persons and clear deadlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u64352	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club in the Croatian Parliament, the respected representative Branko Vukšić on the same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u64353	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'd say at first a colleague before me talked about the garbage I'd talk about the waste because so long as the waste is considered garbage in Croatia we won't find a solution. Waste is a big business. If you open up if you Google the problem of Varazdin then you will see at least a dozen titles saying that the great interest of foreigners is the government of varazdin waste or waste. If foreigners are willing under certain conditions to solve the problem in the town of Varazdin or in some other cities in the Republic of Croatia it is unclear how we are not interested in how we can do what we think is a waste in doing so. That's the problem and the city of Zagreb. We are well aware that waste management has not been permanently resolved in the city of Zagreb, that only now it has started to talk about it, just now the garbage has started to sort out, that it has just begun to talk shyly about how to take care of waste to protect the environment, to make money at waste, that what can be processed to process. However, I will return to Varazdin, the problem of the varazdin waste is in political struggle. We know exactly what was going on back there, remember for 10 years, we know all the reconnaissances the DORH was doing. We know there was a political struggle between the two parties or the two parties. And that no one at that moment thought about the death of the people of Varazdin and that the problem of the garbage would remain. And even the problem of the political struggle remained. On the side of those criminal charges, but there was a facility out there that I don't know if it's operational today. Today, the city of Varazdin had contracts to deal with that garbage, or waste. What her colleague said before 120,000 tons of balated waste threatened the city of Varazdin as an environmental bomb without the ministry taking a finger off. We also listen if you remember from Slavonski Brod environmental problems, i.e. with air in Slavonski Brod, if you remember Zagreb, what happened in Zagreb before the pre-election campaign for local elections, then the ministry and all those who should be involved were included. After the elections took place there was silence, no one is bothered by that waste in the city of Zagreb that has not moved a millimeter, the solution has not moved, there has been a promise of anything. I think that a waste management strategy should be done in Croatia, presented, and that should be done urgently for two reasons. The first reason is environmental protection, the second reason is economic. Waste when taken care of properly, waste is money. We calculated how much money is wasted annually in the city of Zagreb. Remember all those appeals best to happen to us in Makarska or any other city, and we depend on tourism in a way, on the success of tourism, on what happens to us before the tourist season, and that some of our competitors take advantage of it and place it in the world media. This is not only a problem with Makarska, this is not just about the city of Zagreb, this is not just about the city of Varazdin. The waste needs to be made a strategy, agreed, no one wants to, except the Varazdinac waste at their own door because they import it from Makarska. If foreigners are interested in the big waste business, I repeat the question of how our ministry is not interested in finding a solution to how to cash in what can be cashed in. They are irresponsible, we are irresponsible to our own country, we are irresponsible to our own economy, and most painfully, we are irresponsible to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. A colleague asked who would pay for all this. They'll pay the citizens, first with health and second with money. We're going to choke on the smell and the indifference and... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u64354	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDSSB club in the Croatian Parliament, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u64355	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here today, 1975, was started with the application of the Convention on Chemical and Toxic Agents. Well, maybe it's not worse to mention, and then this break today might be a little bit more about it. What's fundamental to saying and why a break is sought is essentially that despite the third year of telling the government of this Kukurik coalition, no waste management strategy has been adopted. And because of this, we have cases of Makarska driving its garbage in 600 km away from Varazdin and spending 255,000 kuna per month, which would then amount to 3 million kunas per year from the budget of the city of Makarska for the transport of waste, garbage to Varazdin, whatever we want waste or garbage. Until recently, Trogir's problem, similar to that of Makarska, has been temporarily resolved, temporarily only and stopped but will soon appear again. What we say and what the ministry says is not a problem for the ministry, the problem is local self-government. Well, this country is not made of feudal property so that every feudal man solves in his area, this is still a Croatian state where 90% and more tax money goes to the state treasury, in the state register and 8% remains local and regional self-government. Therefore, if 92% of tax obligations are left in the state register then there is the Ministry of Environmental Protection, then in any case, the Ministry is obliged to adopt a strategy rather than delaying the waste management strategy for three years. But here, we heard from our colleague that six months ago, a strategy like this was promised for Varazdin, so there's nothing. In Slavonic ship, in Osijek, so-called The public waste disposal facility of Eastern Slavonia is the same problem in Josipovac. Will there be two counties, three counties, one county related to me saying waste disposal? Whether it will be in the Brod-Posavina County of Sagulja, so the waste management centre will be in the Saguljas, so Požeko-Slavon County will join the project, I don't know. There's no strategy. And today in the county, we have a waste management center that has two employees of one director and one secretary who actually doesn't have any function, because these Shaguls don't work at the level that they were supposed to function on. It is also the situation in Antunovac where 10 cities of eastern Slavonia in a dispute with Strabag owes 10m euros because of the dump. It's a completely unsettled situation. And if I were to say, I don't know in other parts, but we can say that today citizens are fully aware of both waste and garbage, sorting out the waste themselves, that you can no longer find bottles of plastic or any other kind like it used to be and not a bag of plastics, so citizens have become fully aware in these few years. Nevertheless, it is obvious that the ministry is not aware of this. The ministry is not aware of this and does not bring about timely strategies which would then be managed with waste and in the ecological manner as my colleague Vuksic said before me, but also in terms of the economic category, which is the recycling of waste, there is plastic, iron and any other waste, construction, etc. Of which the economic benefits can be really great and it is business today, it is in the West, we no longer have, and now we are in the European Union, so in the European Union it is business, it is business, it is money that we are spilling like water between fingers. We're getting paid, and with all this, we're jeopardizing the health of our people, our citizens. Just because someone is not going to tell lazy or incompetent to bring a strategy, determine the centres in which that waste is being taken care of, determine how this waste will be taken care of and determine the areas that will belong to those centers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u64356	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u64357	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u64358	Dear colleagues and colleagues, after the explanation of the club representatives, I must repeat that it is a political monologue used in the Croatian Parliament. The issue of waste management certainly deserves a structured debate in the Croatian Parliament, but based on material or information or a bill that would make the competent authorities responsible for this in the Croatian society, in the Croatian state. I want to say that encouraging such debates is good, quite certainly good, but we need to allow the other side to be heard, not a political monologue. Of course we'll deliver this to the government. I hope that the government will react or report on the state of waste management, the more the broad discussion of this subject is now on the agenda. It's the Air Protection Act. Thank you very much. And now I call upon the esteemed representative of Damir Cain for his subject. ... Monologue again, monologue again. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u64360	But I'm going to talk the same way, but about the biggest trash in the country of Croatia right now, and I also want to believe that this will be delivered not only to the government, but also to the police. I will repeat once again, I ask the Croatian authorities to help us when it comes to Istria, when it comes to drugs down here. It's true, the authorities did tear themselves up a little bit, but I want to believe they're still moving. What's going on down there with us is simply taking the scale of the epidemic, losing generations, losing our DNA. Istra is not only recognized by Arena or Euphrasian or St. Fumi, Raklju or Humu, she is recognized primarily by her own people. South Istria is literally infected. I'm going to say once again that there are cars in Istria. Professor Sakoman finds a reason why. Staffing local self-government in police ranks, the Pula Institute Association collects only one association of 250kg of drug syringes in a year. Our drugs are sold on stock, you buy grams, you get two. We're full of drug festivals, all roads to Istria. City heads of the City of Pula will not attend the 60th anniversary of the film festival of the oldest of its kind after Venice, but will regularly visit these drug festivals. Recently, the entire Department of Anti-Addiction has fallen in the Istrian Police Administration. It's an honor here, Uskok, but we've got more problems in the system. I'm going to say one more time, if something doesn't change, we're going to lose that DNA, we're going to lose a whole generation. In Belgrade, it is the trial of Darka Saric, the largest to say so to the organiser of the business in the Balkans. In Istria, he had people in charge, as they say, "for human resources." This Tripo Penovic was killed several years ago in Maksimir. This man has recruited many, not only this boy, not to mention the names he was caught in Uruguay trying to smuggle 2.1 tons of cocaine. But what's interesting? In order to gain confidence that he could transfer such a amount of something, the money above all and this dust, he had to prove itself quite a bit before that. Where were those people employed? Among other things in port captainship. You see, the police were dealing with us on land, and those who worked in the captains were dealing at sea. It's about official people who have uniforms, who use official vehicles or boats, who have those epolytes, and that way everything was open to them. I pray that the institutions in Istria are simply ventilated. We can also relate here to the problem of the judiciary. Why, due to the exemption, due to the procedure of the CAP of certain persons who are permanently linked to these activities. Someone thinks I'm exaggerating, but I say again, gentlemen, we have a problem. Mothers cry, fathers hide, run away from problems, institutions deafen. Croatian society at the annual level recently talked about it in the fight against investment dependence between 650 and 750 million kuna. Which is only then real business. I should literally say it one more time, although I have complete confidence in the Chief of Police of Mr. Cestar, and I'm going to have the police wind up and clean up the captains. One word from those people to go to the streets, to the school, and to fight it there, because it's time to help us. Once again I will ask the question who will be responsible for the employment of those persons in the heart of the institutions themselves who are obliged to fight what devours survival I would say to a society. And that's one of the reasons why Istria has been stagnating for the last 10 years. We had 36.6% more gross social product than Croatia, today it is 26%. If Istra can't even pull herself out, then the ones that we need will.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u64361	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. I must say that this is also a political monologue, and in my court drugs are not a matter of political match but of a very serious state strategy. I gave you my word and now I'm asking you to finish it. [[Intruder Cain: If we were working.]] Secondly, I have been warned that the topic before this, that the Croatian Parliament has passed the Waste Management Act and under this law we are obliged to bring in the Waste Management Plan this year. Well, they'd say in simple speech, it knocks on the open door. Now we will proceed to the established agenda. It is next - Final proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Air Protection Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 639. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament include the first and second reading, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the final draft law was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. The Honorable Deputy Minister of Environment and Nature of Hrvoje Dokoza. Here you go, deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75786	Your Honor, Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Air Protection with the Final Proposal of the Law. The basic legal act defining air, ozone and climate change policy measures in the Republic of Croatia is the Law on Air Protection, which entered into force on 24 November 2011 and which is in line with the European Union directives so that, according to its structure, it constitutes a framework law, or in accordance with Directive 2008/50 of the European Community, the air quality management and assessment is regulated, and in accordance with Directive 2003/87 of the European Community, a system for greenhouse gas emission trading within the Community is established. During the past two years since the entry into force of the Law on Air Protection in the European Union, significant legal documents have been adopted in the area of climate protection, ozone layer protection and the treatment of florad greenhouse gases that require significant changes to the law. During the implementation of the Air Protection Act and the implementing rules adopted on the basis of it, the need to remove certain inaccuracies and inaccuracies was observed in the law. This law is also in line with the Law on General Administrative Procedure and the Law on the Establishment and Circumstance of Ministrys and other bodies, the central authorities of the State Administration in the section relating to the abolition of the State Inspectorate, and the new establishment of the inspection services of the Ministry of Economy. This law allows for the direct application of a total of 31 Regulations and Decision of the European Union, which means that, in general this law, the competent authorities and the tasks of the competent authorities for the application of the Regulations and decisions of the European Union in the area of climate and ozone protection shall be established in an appropriate manner. It lays down administrative and inspection controls, prescribes detailed infringement provisions for the direct implementation of acts of the European Union, prescribes transitional periods which give an appropriate time to ensure the technical conditions for the implementation of the law, and in order to further comply with Croatian legislation with the new acquis of the European Union, i.e. direct application of the regulations and decisions of the European Union. But the most significant key changes and additions to this law are in the area of climate change. The reason is that, because of the already leading role the European Union plays on climate change, and in the period of adoption of the Air Protection Act, it has adopted a number of new regulations that regulate the monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions, policies and measures to reduce them, and adaptations to climate change. Thus, this law regulates: the content and method of adopting the Low Carbon Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia by 2030, with a view to 2050, and the adoption of the Action Plan for a five-year period within 18 months of the entry into force of the law. The low-carbon development strategy will aim long-term economic and social development of the Republic of Croatia towards a low-emission society of greenhouse gases, i.e. the Strategy should establish long-term measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. To assess the fundamental impacts of the strategy on the economy, society and the environment, to provide guidelines for scientific research in the area of climate change mitigation, to identify institutions that are key to the implementation of the strategy, and other issues. The second important strategic document is set out in Article 118a. giving authority to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a climate change adaptation strategy with an action plan by 2040 with a view to 2070 within 3 years of the entry into force of this law. The holder of the strategy is the Ministry of Environment Protection in cooperation with other central authorities of the state administration and other public authorities responsible for meteorology, agriculture, fisheries, forestry, water economy, energy, spatial planning, sea, tourism, nature protection, environmental protection and human health protection. The provisions of this Article also lay down the competences of the central authorities of the state administration and other public authorities for the implementation of measures in certain sectors, the obligation for the development documents of sectors vulnerable to climate change to be in line with the adjustment strategy and the obligation of the bodies to which the strategy relates to reporting on the implementation of adaptation measures in sectors for which they are responsible. The functioning of the national greenhouse gas monitoring system as a necessary condition for the implementation of the policies and measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions is more detailed. This obliges the authorities of the state administration and other public authorities responsible for environmental, economic, entrepreneurship, agriculture, forestry, water economy, sea, transport and official statistics to provide the data needed to produce the report. In addition, more detailed monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions in the life span of liquid oil fuels is required and liquid fuel distributors are obliged to reduce fuel life-cycle emissions by 6% by 31 December 2020 compared to the 2010 emission level. More detailed arrangements shall be made for the allocation of emission units, the free allocation of emission units to operators, installations and aircraft operators, the conditions for auctioning of emission units and the functioning of the emission register. More detailed rules on how to use the financial resources obtained from the sale of emission units through auctions to be paid into the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund and the reporting obligation of the Commission on the use of these funds. In the area of air protection, the changes proposed by this law are mainly due to the problems observed in the current application of laws relating to the implementation of the measurement programme in the national air quality monitoring network. The existing air quality management and monitoring system in the state network in accordance with the Air Protection Act in practice has shown certain uncertainty and lack of accuracy. The law stipulates that air quality monitoring operations in the state network can only be carried out by reference accredited laboratories which have issued the Ministry’s authorisation in accordance with specific criteria that they must meet. The intention was to establish reference laboratories for all measurement reference methods in Croatia to ensure the implementation of Directive 2008/50 of the European Community. In 2013, 2 legal entities examined accredited laboratories from the total registered 11 testing laboratories in Croatia acquired special conditions and issued the Ministry's permission to carry out the activity of air quality monitoring in the state network in the function of the reference laboratories. According to the existing law, the reference laboratories carried out the air quality monitoring activity at city stations on a commercial basis, i.e. they provided services based on public competition. In practice, this means that these legal persons have the opportunity to report to the tender but do not have a real obligation to carry out that activity. They may carry out this activity if they want and have resources and if sufficient funding is provided in the state budget. This shows that these jobs are extremely demanding and require special expertise, in addition to technical knowledge, necessary to carry out the very measurement of a substance in the air. For these reasons, classical testing laboratories in the Republic of Croatia which are mostly public health institutions and carry out measurements of only certain air pollutants at local level, i.e. for the purposes of their work or county, are neither professionally or technically qualified to carry out the tasks of national reference laboratories for the needs of the State as required by law. In line with the above, and the basis of an analysis of the concept of state-level network management, the necessary pre-conditional and enforcement deadlines according to the EU acquis, and in order to improve the effective implementation of air quality monitoring in the national network, and taking into account that air quality data on the territory of Croatia are of national interest, the Government has established the strategic definitions of future work of the state network. And for the end of the short term, the consequence of this legislation is a significant step towards harmonising with the EU's legal acquis in the area of space protection of the ozone layer and climate change mitigation. And the process will continue with the adoption of implementing rules and documents. Ensuring more effective implementation of air quality monitoring in the national network for the permanent monitoring of air quality through the designation of this law of DZHMO and the Institute of Medical Research and Medicine at national reference laboratories, taking into account that data on the quality of air in the territory of the State are of national interest to the appointment of reference laboratories, ensuring a lasting continuity of the work of the state network, targeted data quality, timely reporting of the public and compliance with all the obligations of the State in accordance with EU acts and rationalisation of the costs of the work of the state network. In addition, the improvement of inspection supervision and greater respect for legal provisions relating to air protection, ozone layer and climate change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75787	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Let's go to the replicas. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75788	Dear Mr. Dokoza, you have rightfully pointed out national interest several times in the Law on Air Protection or Air Protection. You said that in practice in measuring the quality of the air were detected indetermination and inadequacy. And it's a finding in place. But as we're saying here, the other day I used to be reminded of these laws of ours on bats when they come out into the light of day, they lose their eyes, they see nothing, no one applies those laws. The problem is that we will pass the law and what is clearly prescribed in this law is what we should do and what you too have seen certain irregularities and shortcomings that you will correct but in practice there are holes, in practice there are no shortcomings. No one in Croatia respects the laws. Is it okay, we've transferred a good piece of waste management to local self-government. What if local self-government isn't able to solve a problem like the one we just talked about in Varazdin waste, then what? Are we going to let the citizens of Varazdin choke in the trash, is that the solution? Is there a regulation in the law, which is within which the need or the state does not apply the laws itself? That's the biggest problem. The biggest problem is that we leave dead letters on paper, which we have beautiful laws, that we have here in Croatian law unanimously and that we agree that they are good. And those worst laws offer a solution but we do not adhere to the practice of these solutions. And here, when it comes to environmental protection, we need to keep our eyes open and act immediately.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75789	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare-Ozbolt replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75790	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Since the very adoption of the Law on Air Protection, since its entry into force in 2011 in some parts of Croatia unfortunately, it is becoming more and more difficult to breathe. The serious environmental problem of cross-border character is that of Slavonski Brod, where air quality and life and the health of the inhabitants are disrupted. The refinery of the ship's oil is a big problem. The minister when he was in Brod a few months ago announced a lawsuit. I am now really interested in what is being done and whether the European Commission is finally going to press charges against contaminants, or the refinery itself, and in the extreme case of entities or BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75791	Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75792	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, a good portion of the replica has already been said by Mrs. Scare-Ozbolt, but there's more to it. Here, above all, there were speeches in Mr Dokoza's air quality measurement program but I wonder what is being done and what can be done if this measurement shows pollution and what measures are to reduce pollution. This is important for our citizens, especially the citizens of the Slavon ship and Sisko. The Slavon ship is specific because we have a contaminant from a neighbouring country. I've spoken to the Ministry of the Environment before, but the Ministry of Foreign Affairs also has this crucial role to play. Unfortunately, none of that. When you were talking about reference laboratories, what's the difference if you said they had two, so completely competent to measure air pollution that we're hiring new people now and without that they won't be able to at the Institute for Medical Research and at the State Hydrometeorological Institute if there are already laboratories that you said were competent to measure air quality in the Republic of Croatia. I don't see where that cost reduction is, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75793	Thank you very much. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Board of the Croatian Parliament want to present a report on this matter? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the club of Independent Representatives and Honorable Representative Damir Cain. He's gone. The second part, the respected representative Grubisic, does not have him either. They both lose the right to talk about this as clubs. Dear Representative Damir Mateljan on behalf of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia Club in the Croatian Parliament, please welcome fellow Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75794	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Deputy Minister with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. How important the quality of air tells me the fact that I learned today, which is that more than 7 million people died in the world based on a 2012 survey of the world’s health organization, namely, with regard to pollution problems. So it's a very, very important part, a very important problem, a very important part of the general good that is also of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia. Here is the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Air Protection Act with the final proposal. These amendments and additions apply to the law that was passed in November 2011 which we are now changing. The 2011 law was in line with the EU Directives, so according to its structure, it is a framework law governing air quality management and assessment, i.e. a system for greenhouse gas emission trading. There are three basic reasons why the existing law is changing? The first reason is to comply with the EU acquis. The minister himself said this new law allows for the application of 31 EU regulations and decisions. Another reason is that during the implementation of the Air Protection Act, the need to remove certain ambiguities and inaccuracies was observed. And the third reason concerns compliance with the General Administrative Procedure Act and the Law on the Establishment and Circumstance of the Ministrys and other central authorities of the State Administration in the section relating to the abolition of the State Inspectorate and the new establishment of the inspection services of the Ministry of Economy. So I've listed three key reasons for changing this existing law. In addition, the Air Protection Act regulates or refers to some three areas, three groups of issues, that is, air protection, the second is climate protection and the third is protection of the ozone layer. As far as the first question is concerned, Air protection is necessary to say that the existing air management and monitoring system in the state network and according to the existing law which is now in force has shown certain irregularities, certain indecision. Therefore, the current law stipulates that air quality monitoring operations in the State Network have been carried out by a reference laboratory on the market principle, that is to say, carried out that activity if they have an interest and quality, i.e. capacity and provided sufficient financial resources. This form, therefore, is not known in any EU country. Of the 28 EU Member States, only 2 work in this way. One is the Republic of Croatia under the existing Air Protection Act, and the other is the United Kingdom, so Great Britain. Therefore, in line with the above, and the basis of an analysis of the concept of governance of the State Network, the necessary activities, preconditions and deadlines for implementation towards the acquis of the EU, and in order to improve more effective implementation of air quality monitoring in the State Network, and given what we said at the outset, so that air quality and air quality monitoring is national interest, the Ministry of Environment and Nature has established strategic definitions of future work of the State Network and proposed certain changes. I'd like to group these changes into five important things. First, in order to achieve the objectives and respect the reasons for amending and supplementing the existing law, Article 10 of this proposed law proposes to amend Article 28 of the existing Air Protection Act in such a way as to designate the State Hydrometeorological Institute of DHMZ as an expert body to manage the work of the State Network, which will ensure the construction of new stations in the State Network, ensure air quality monitoring and be responsible for implementing the air quality measurement programme on those stations. Secondly, in the same article, the National Reference Laboratorys, which is the State Hydrometeorological Institute and the Institute for Medical Research, Medicine of Labour, IMI, will carry out measurements of polluting substances in air at stations within the State Network. The designated institutions shall be accredited for the measurement reference methods for certain pollutants in accordance with the standards and may obtain permission from the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Nature to carry out the tasks of the reference laboratory. Thirdly, in the same article, Article 10(7) provides for the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund to provide financial resources for the implementation of the Monitoring Programme for air pollution levels in the State Network. Fourthly, the Ministry of Environmental and Nature Protection is determined to carry out expert supervision of the work of the State Network. And the fifth, so... Article 148 also determines the fines of DHMZ and IMI unless they fulfil the obligations made by this law. So, these changes, these types of work of the State Air Quality Monitoring Network are called responsible, legal persons for working with the State Network. This ensures the continuity of the work of the State Network in the long term. The quality of data obtained by the measures to be carried out by designated professional and scientific institutions in the Republic of Croatia shall be ensured, timely public reporting and compliance with the obligations of the Republic of Croatia under EU acts shall be ensured and the costs of the work and maintenance of the State Network shall be reduced. There is adequate and permanent funding of the State Network and its work is no longer exclusively dependent on the state budget but is also financed by the Fund for the Protection of the Environment and Energy Efficiency. The second segment of the issue of the Labour Protection Act concerns climate protection, and when I talked about the reasons why amendments and additions to the Air Protection Act were made, I mentioned 31 EU air quality regulations, so it is clear how much EU legislation is involved in this problem and how interesting this problem is to him. The key elements proposed by the amendments to this law are therefore related to the area of climate change, contained in Articles 74a and 118a. Article 74 of this Law prescribes the obligation to adopt a strategy... for development of the Republic of Croatia by 2030 with a view to 2050. The Croatian Parliament shall be empowered to adopt a... strategy at the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia within 18 months of the entry into force of this law. That strategy should provide long-term measures to reduce emissions... of gas and identify institutions that are key to the implementation of the strategy. The holder of the strategy is the Ministry in cooperation with other public and central authorities of the State Administration. This article also empowers the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt an action plan for the five-year period as... of the strategy document. The second strategic document is set out in Article 118a, which sets out the obligation to adopt a climate change adaptation strategy with an action plan by 2040 with a view to 2070. As for the previous strategy and for this strategy is given authority to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a strategy for adaptation to climate change within 3 years and 18 months of the adoption of this law. One of the changes is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is empowered to adopt an action plan for a five-year period planned to be adopted by the end of 2016. The last segment to which this law applies concerns the protection of the ozone layer. Key amendments to this area, and to propose this law, relate to the determination of obligations to central authorities of the State Administration regarding reporting the consumption of things that damage the ozone layer. For the collection of all data relating to substances polluting the ozone layer, the Environmental Protection Agency shall be determined, a system of professional training and regular training of persons carrying out the activities of collecting the verification of the failure to install and service equipment and devices containing controlled and new things and... gases. The bill's proposal will support the SDP club with two nomotechnical amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75795	Thank you too, dear colleague. We have a replica of the respected representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75796	Thank you, Mr. President. You are saying that you will support this law, among other things, and for the reason why it is changing how the measurement is done on state network measurement stations because the existing system is not recognized in Europe, except for Croatia, Great Britain, no other Member State has established such a system. I want first of all to say that the existing model adopted by the Air Protection Act is absolutely in line with the EU acquis and is not part of the acquis because this model was contrary to the acquis. We such a law in 2011 even before could not have been passed on the one hand, and on the other hand we could not even close chapter 27. The environment, therefore, is consistent with the acquis, and if it works well, I don't see any reason why it would change. So far in the Croatian public, I have not heard that there is an observation of mistreatment and measurement of air quality in the Republic of Croatia on the basis of this model, so I would be more pleased that when the Government proposed and amended Article 28 of the existing law, it stated the real reasons why it is leaving the existing model that I am saying is good, that it is good and that the report on air quality in the Republic of Croatia did not mention this possibility of amending the law. So it would be good if the government had given us more detailed insight into the reasons why they would be changing the current model of air quality measurement in the Republic of Croatia on the state network measurement stations.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75797	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Damir Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75798	Thank you. Mr. Representative, yes, we cannot agree here, of course, because what you stand for as an essential part of which is why you believe that this law should not be passed, I believe that this particular part of the introduction of DHMZ and IMI into this law makes it a quality. Namely, the basis of the previous law which was not fully in line with EU Directive 2008/50 EC since this Directive clearly requires the definition of the authority responsible for assessing the air quality of the measurement system, ensuring the accuracy of the measurement, etc., which means that in the current law, private laboratories which did not have the capacity and which were not registered to monitor all the elements of the pollution were allowed to appear in a public monitoring tender in the national network. There was no laboratory in Croatia that had all the necessary accreditation to monitor all necessary pollution. It is precisely by insisting that these are state institutions, meaning DHMZ and the Institute of Medical Research, that in this way not only will money be saved but the quality of measurement in the state network will be strengthened, which is of paramount importance for the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75799	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75800	Thank you very much. I'm stuck with one of your ear phrases, you're telling me that this bill relieves the state budget and costs of measuring the quality or quality you've replaced for quality, not air quality, to the Environmental Protection Fund. How do you think the state budget is relieved, and how is this financed by the Environmental Protection Fund, who is financing it and from what is being financed? I think it's a little spilling from the hollow into the blanks, actually.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75801	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Damir Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75802	Your Honor, when it comes to funding the Environment Fund, that's what funds are paid as so-called. the ecological rent and it amounts to some 5 to 7 million kuna, which will now be directly directed against DHMZ and IMI respectively. And as for other savings, on the basis of this existing law on public tender, there were two laboratories that were able to make such measurements of one of them is in this law. And in public procurement, actually, civil servants worked part-time in this second laboratory and thus received two incomes, one from the state budget, and the other from the state budget based on a public tender. So the fact that this will no longer happen is a sign that certain savings will be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75803	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the turn of the HDZ Club and the esteemed representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75804	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Deputy Associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Let me first complete this replica to Mr. Malatana. In fact, I am not anywhere, and I did not say that we do not support the adoption of this law, so you have concluded, but I have said that by this law or the reasoning of the law, and even by opening the presentation of the Deputy Minister, I am not convinced of the reasons why it is, the real reasons that we are changing one successful model of measuring at the state administration's measuring stations when it comes to measuring air quality in the Republic of Croatia. That's an important difference from what you answered me. This law proposes amendments and additions to the Air Protection Act adopted in 2011. I recall that this legislation was adopted during the period of validity of the Air Quality Protection and Quality Plan in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2008-2011 made a significant effort to bring domestic legislation into line with the EU acquis in the field of air protection, industrial pollution, climate change and protection of the ozone layer. That process of harmonisation proved to be demanding and complex due to the significant initial differences in the legislative system both in the Republic of Croatia and in the European Union with which domestic legislation was to be harmonised. I note that more than 40 new or revised legal and sub-legislative acts in the area of air protection were adopted during that period alone, whose production was primarily driven by the need to comply with Croatian legislation. In doing so, the initial basis was the basic documents defining air protection policy and measures and improving air quality in Croatia, which are the strategy for environmental protection and the National Action Plan for the Environment and the Environmental Protection Act and the earlier Air Protection Act. In this period alone, a whole series of measures have been implemented, of which I would like to highlight the following. An improvement has been made in the state air quality monitoring system, an air quality information system has been established at the environmental protection agency. The implementation of a strategic study and environmental impact has started and a more precise definition of the content and methodology of the strategy itself. This was the time of application of the uniform conditions for environmental protection under the IPPC Directive. It should be noted that the last four-year period, which was adopted by the Croatian Parliament, on air quality monitoring in Croatia, showed that from 2008 to 2011, there was a general trend in reducing emissions of major pollutants. Of course, it is not necessary to lose sight of the fact that the reduction in emissions was the result of a decline in economic activity primarily in the industrial sector in the Republic of Croatia. Data show that by looking at pollutants whose concentrations exceeded the limit and tolerance values of air quality that air is mostly clean or slightly polluted, therefore mainly the first category while in certain urban and industrial areas air is moderately and excessively polluted. Other categories or third categories. In this context, priority is placed on the need to address air pollution caused by oil processing in domestic refineries in Sisak and Rijeka. Then on Slavonski Brod, due to the oil processing process in the oil refinery of the Ship located in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is these two topics, therefore the problem of the Refinery in Sisak and Rijeka and certainly also the problem of air pollution based on the work of the oil refinery in the Ship were in the focus of the interest of the parent parliamentary Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. Therefore, I am also taking this opportunity to call on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club also the Resorient Ministry and the Government to deliver reports for 2013 and all those commitments adopted and conclusions adopted on the Committee itself, in accordance with the conclusions of the parent committee, so that Sisak public in the first row of Sisak-Moslavina County and the Republic of Croatia are familiar with the latest activities. According to the plan to modernise the refinery in Sisak, two phases were envisaged, the first and second phases. The first phase was completed by 2008 and the second phase was due to be completed by 2010, which is not the case so far. However, according to us in the Croatian Democratic Community club, the key issue in the work of the refinery in Sisak, air pollution due to the work and processing of oil and in the town of Sisak is whether the INA or the Government of the Republic of Croatia plans to continue producing oil derivatives in Sisak, or whether it intends to give up. So, with the problem of quality and air cleanness in the territory of Sisak and Sisak-Moslavina County, it is necessary to take the position of the resolution ministry, the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the position of the INA and MOL whether it will continue to produce oil derivatives in the Sisak Refinery and what the future of the Sisak Refinery is. We have not received a clear answer by the Government of the Republic of Croatia or from the INA about the fate of the Refinery in Sisak. We also urge the ministry to continue its activities in the construction and reconstruction of the Refinery in Brod, regardless of its not in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, but it is necessary to make all those activities in the planned reconstruction and oil refinery in Brod. When we talk about monitoring the quality of air in the Republic of Croatia, we know that today it is carried out through the state air quality monitoring network, which is in the jurisdiction of the network, i.e. the State Hydrometeorological Institute and, under the supervision of the Ministry of Environment and Nature, when we talk about the state network, and through local networks in the jurisdiction of the county, the city of Zagreb and the cities of municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. Also around the air pollution source, polluters ensure that air quality is monitored through stations for specific purposes that form part of local networks. And now I would go back to what I had just replicated, so it would be good for us, even during this debate, if the representatives of the government would introduce us to the right reasons why they were giving up on a model that proved to be effective. Because this way you can also talk about a kind of conflict of interest that the state body which manages, controls, manages, monitors the work of the state network of peaceful stations that it also performs works at the same time, or provides service in that same state network. The more we know that one of the measures that this government has presented to the Croatian public when we talk about reforming the public administration system is outsourcing so that certain businesses are left to themselves and that involve the service provided to the state sector is placed on the market and provided and provided to the private sector. Here we come to the opposite process, which is that something that has so far been in a certain way on the market and that has been done by reference laboratories or institutions in the Republic of Croatia that have had to meet the requirements prescribed by law to be a reference laboratory. We are now going in the opposite direction to what the Government has announced by its programme of measures to improve the situation primarily in the public sector in the Republic of Croatia. The significant paper we support is the adoption of strategic documents which are important for climate change mitigation. Low carbon development strategy of the Republic of Croatia by 2030 with a view to 2050, and climate change adaptation strategy until 2040 with a view to 2070. It is good that these two strategic documents are adopted by the Croatian Parliament, and it is good and we support that these two strategies follow the action plans that the Government should adopt very soon after the Parliament adopts this law. We recall that according to the agreed agreement at the 8th Kyoto Protocol Party Conference of December 2012 the Republic of Croatia agreed with the European Union a common objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20% compared to 1990, but even before the meeting in Doha, the European Union has defined the achievement of the 20-20 climate targets by this smart, sustainable and inclusive growth strategy, as well as the third energy package, where it wants to be in 2020 and as one of the main objectives. reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% compared to 1990 levels, increase the share of renewable energy sources in final consumption to 20% and increase energy efficiency to 20%. In accordance with the above, the Republic of Croatia has defined and adopted those objectives over the past period through all strategic and implementation plans. However, we note, over the past two years, a certain stagnation of the started processes, for example one of the instruments for achieving the objectives taken over and increasing energy efficiency. We are witnessing that a project to rebuild public sector buildings has failed, not to say debacle. The project, which was aimed at the energy reconstruction of 500 public buildings during 2012, was wandering from the point of view of implementation from the energy sector's questionable business centre, investment to the Real Estate Intermediation Agency. It seems to me that only a few, 4 or 5 public-sector buildings were being implemented from the project, but when the government saw that the project itself failed, it brought in a new Public Sector Energy Reconstruction Programme for the period 2014-2015 and we hope that it will not remain just at the level of desire as the original programme. Although according to this new programme, the Agency for Real Estate Intermediation has been designated as an implementing body, you can notice that there are no projects that are being implemented at this time and that would suggest that this programme will be implemented by the end of 2015. Furthermore, to mitigate climate change, it is necessary to ensure an increase in the share of renewable energy sources. The energy development strategy has set targets by 2020, which is to increase the share of renewable energy sources by 20%, the share of biofuels by 10% and the reduction of direct energy consumption by 2016 by 9%, by applying energy efficiency measures. However, in addition to the adoption of the National Plan for Renewable Energy Sources by 2020, we do not notice concrete results in this field, nor does it confuse government policy in certain areas. For example, in the introduction of biofuel production, we have already warned here in the Croatian Parliament that the reduction in the cost of fossil fuel consumption and the reduction of fuel production incentives is certainly not in line with the set objectives defined by the Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the Croatian Parliament also adopted a plan to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the European Union's acquis. In the first quarter of this year, the same plan envisions that the Croatian Parliament will pass a law on renewable energy sources. As far as I have information, this law is not only in the procedure of the Croatian Parliament or in the procedure of the Croatian Government, so here is the Croatian Parliament, it seems to me, a month or two ago, adopted this plan in which we predicted that in the first quarter of this year, there will be a law on renewable energy sources, and here is the end of the first quarter a few days left. We still don't have that law. In order to mitigate climate change, the establishment of a waste management system also plays an important role. Unfortunately, we can estimate that in the last two years, activities have been slow to run at the closure and recovery of existing official and wild dumps and the construction of waste management centres aimed at establishing an integrated waste management system by the end of 2018. Just this morning after the request for a break in the Croatian Parliament was the whole waste management system in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, activities related to the construction of waste management centres, activities relating to the closure of wild, semi-official, official dumps, as overlooked by the law, are not going the way we should, so we can expect that problems with waste management will continue in the Republic of Croatia daily. This is after we hear the Government's position on the part relating to the monitoring and measurement of air quality at the measuring stations, the HDZ Club... and through the amendment to give its statement on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75805	Thank you, too. Let's go to the replicas. Dear Representative Joseph Kregar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75806	Dear Mr. Bačić, I am kind of embarrassed to spoil a good atmosphere that you have announced by your constructive consent to assess positively this law, conditionalally and by stressing one, I certainly consider it justified, which is a desire to encourage and market competition and the development of those institutions and organisations that would deal with the issue of air quality. However, it seems to me that in this respect we are revealing the right situation and that is what the past period has warned of. Through a whole series of scandals that occur in relation to environmental protection, especially air quality. The equivalent example of this is actually, and this falls on the burden of the former government is behavior in the case of asbestos and asbestos particles, measuring it, falsifying material, or refusing to recognise results. The results are now being acknowledged, but the initial reaction was extremely negative. It led many people to likely pay for the delays in recovery with their health and likely to have fallen levels of trust in institutions involved.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75807	Replicate response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75808	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Craiger, I can agree with you in a great deal of what you said yourself. But I want to say that the problem is asbestos, but not only asbestos, but also the problem of environmental protection, including in the part of air pollution, etc. etc. something that we met with, which the state administration first met at that time. And despite the many problems, even the bad solutions that you have pointed out, I believe that in that part too, when it comes to asbestos, big steps have been made. Two parliamentary committees of parent if I may say so, both the Parliamentary Committee on the Environment and the Parliamentary Committee on Health held a thematic session two months ago where we recapitulated everything that has been done in this area in the last 6 7 years and defined certain conclusions on how to continue to act, and precisely on what you said to improve the system of environmental protection, and then in addition to health protection. And I agree with you in the first part of what you're talking about, which is that certain jobs that require expertise, specific knowledge is good that they are on the market and that certain businesses are tightened through the market because it contributes to their quality. This trail also included the adoption of the 2011 law where almost identical questions have been raised in the Croatian public today and where the then government has defined the model I spoke about and which is still in force.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75809	Honorable representative Damir Mateljan, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75810	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Bačić, I have concluded that you will not be subject to this law by the basis of your vote on the board, and if you will be for him, I will, of course, be pleased. And the reason you said you wouldn't, so you have doubts about the quality of this law, so you don't see what the ministry sees as a lack of inadequacy in the system that exists. But in practice now, therefore, the reference laboratory which, only two reference laboratories in the Republic of Croatia for measurement in the state network can be reported exclusively through competitions. So they have the option, but they have no obligation to report to that contest. So we can lead ourselves into the possibility that a private laboratory does not report to the competition at all and that we actually do not carry out this very important monitoring in the state network at all. As far as outsourcing is concerned, so actually, until now, the private lab has been taking outsourcing civil servants. There's already the point of that problem. And as for the conflict of interest, this law is not precedent. Look at the Law on Croatian Waters and look at the institution of Croatian Water. Not that they're alike, but they're some things that are very identical. And why do we need to strengthen the capacity of state institutions? It is precisely because the foundation of the EU Directive is not only important to monitor the quality of air in the state network, but also to participate with other reference laboratories in the EU. Do the facilities have private labs for that? I believe they don't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75811	Replicate response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75812	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Matteljan, you see, I am a supporter to establish the criteria that certain companies or institutions must, call whatever you want, regardless of whose ownership they are in, and if these conditions prescribed by the law by the institutions are fulfilled or by companies, and I say regardless of whose ownership these companies, the jobs for which they then became a reference laboratory must be made available to everyone in the same way. That's the difference. I don't think the state will do a better job than some institute, some institution or some private-owned company, and that this job will be necessary for the state to be cheaper. I don't agree with that. So, I think that if a criterion is established, determines what individual institutions, companies, institutions, institutions have to meet, then it doesn't matter whose institution that institution owns that it will then be able to do it in a quality way. And I think it's often cheaper if it's left to the market that it's cheaper for the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75813	Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75814	Dear counterpart Bačić, in your discussion, at the beginning of the debate you asked a question that certainly many not only of the Sistian people are interested in the answer that you probably cannot give, and you asked, we need to know what the future of the refinery in Sisak is. But how do we know what the future of the refinery in Sisak is when we don't know what the future of the INA is? We certainly don't know that. The sale of INA was first conducted by media non-serious, harmful games, test balloons were played. And it was unserious games on the one hand and on the other. No one wanted to sit at the table and really arrange the fate of the strategic firm for the Republic of Croatia. The question is, will MOL keep the INA, will the state keep its part of the INA or will it sell? Will INA buy the Russians or the Washington and Brussels dictatorship distanced the Russians from buying the INA, so for now it remains the status quo. So, when fate is not known and then the future of a strategic company that has spread its hand to the heart for very little money, which is proved by these ongoing court proceedings, then it is very difficult to talk about the fate of the refinery and whether they should be Sishken as well as those in Slavonski Brod to worry about air pollution. Surely, you too would like to hear the answers to those questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75815	Replicate response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75816	Thank you, Mr. President. So there is a colleague Vuksic, so we are interested in the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia when it comes to INA and indirectly when it comes to the refinery in Sisak. So, regardless of who will own the INA in the next period, will the current majority owners, so RH and MOL, will any of these strategic partners change, will the government leave its portfolio in the INA, so will or will it not be the owner of the INA in the future? The government should state whether the Republic of Croatia is a refinery of oil in Sisak is a strategic energy facility or not? So, regardless of what the fate of INA will be, I believe that the government should send a clear message that it intends to continue modernising the reconstruction of the oil refinery in Sisak and thus ensure the stability of the Croatian oil and oil products market on the one hand, and on the other hand contribute to the quality or quality of air in Sisak for which they are life-interested both the citizens of Sisak and the citizens of Sisak-Moslavina County. Therefore, to repeat, regardless of what kind of ownership schedule will be in the next 10-year period in the INA Government, which is not only the owner but manages this country, it is necessary to declare the status of the refinery.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75817	Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75818	Thank you, Mr. President. So in your debate, you emphasized these large pollutants with a special emphasis here and in the replica of refineries, the production of oil derivatives, and it is certainly to understand those people who are in this environment given these catastrophic data on the number of deaths, of course the number of chronically ill diseases. All that certainly increases the costs and the health system and that. And each of us is sensitized naturally to its environment. I'm saying that maybe it's under-emphasised or in some way it's an neglected hydrocarbon explosion. I come from an environment that gives energy 60%, 70% of gas for gas production. And surely we have our own indicators and we follow how much it affects our health and our citizens' suffering. But look now, now last week or before a short time, a new rent-sharing regulation has been passed, and with that going to the state budget almost 300 percent higher. The county gets 100%, and we in whose area it's exploited, which is why we're suffering the most, from sulfurs, not to talk about other harmful factors, we're being reduced. By what rule? Whether this rent, I don't know what justice is, what is this approach to the even development of Croatia that those in whose area they get at least, and the efforts to improve the quality of life will be made. And all those studies that we've been following for years they're perfect, they're great, they're right, they're all the best, and now these measurement stations that are going to show they're still going to tell you it's perfect air, it's better than I know where. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75819	Thank you, too. Replicate response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75820	Thank you, Mr. President. So Col. Milinkovic, you have just continued what I have in my opening statement on behalf of the club and said, on the one hand, that we are passing strategic documents, we are passing laws, and on the other hand the Government is making a number of regulations, and this rent regulation you mentioned does not implement the same strategic documents and laws that we have passed. I highlighted an example of the production of biofuels in the Republic of Croatia. So on the one hand, we have declared to the Energy Development Strategy by 2020 that we will encourage the production of biofuels, biodiesel. On the other hand, the government systematically reduces the compensation to producers of biofuels in the Republic of Croatia by only 3 to 4 times compared to 2011. Therefore, as we encourage them through numerous credit lines to approach the construction of such biofuels on the other hand, we dim them because before the end of the year we make some decisions that reduce their compensation as an incentive for the production of biofuels. Here, so on that very trail of what you've said, there are many other indicators and actions that would show that this attitude of yours is correct to declare ourselves on the one hand for air protection, environmental protection, and on the other hand, we don't contribute to that, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75821	Dear colleague Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75822	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Bacic, in your presentation, you've expressed your doubts about this new system in terms of monitoring. However, we must stress that air is generally good and that it needs great protection of course of the Republic of Croatia and it is not a commercial product. Therefore, air monitoring cannot be based on the same principles as monitoring products that are in broad consumption. Therefore, it is good that this proposal will lead to some misunderstandings, inaccuracies. And why do I say that? It's precisely because it's very important because pollution acts negatively on health. This is a serious problem for people's health, for children, for the elderly, for chronic patients, and it has also been shown to be a respiratory system, to the neurogenic system, to the immune system, to be carcinogenic, can be caused by a variety of taxigenicnoxes, all of these contaminants that we can find in the air. Also recent studies have shown that carbon dioxide is over, are allergenic, allergies are almost a year away. You know that allergies used to be only in certain parts of the year. Now this has continued because the research has shown that the pollen level is exactly proportional to the carbon dioxide level in the air. Therefore, I believe that all that improves and monitors, or improves all these ambiguities that have been so far, all the inaccuracies. Not only harmonising with EU laws, but precisely everything that leads to a change in the quality of air, I think we should support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75823	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75824	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear colleague Bonačić, you've said all this nicely, I just don't know what you've replicated to me. I didn't realize what you wanted with that replica to contradict my presentation. I also agree with you that you need to do everything to make this monitoring very high, only to this very high level can we come to me if we establish high criteria that all those who participate in this monitoring must meet and then we will get to that quality. You come from a health spectrum so you know well that treatment jobs, diagnosis can also work private clinics that are numerous in the world. Therefore, I do not see what would be the reason why we and the proposal question the monitoring that is carried out in part, in part not entirely, in part and through the private sector. Here are the reasons I haven't read in this environment of the law and in a bill like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75825	Dear colleague of MP Mirela Holly's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75826	Dear colleague, I wanted to relate to what you said about investment in energy efficiency in construction. In fact, it was clear to me from the outset that this project will not be successful because the cost of actual investment was intended to be put on construction firms, which is a model that does not exist in principle in the EU because the investment costs are mainly transferred to energy companies which are then in the interest of a full reduction or through a cost that will pay more for energy citizens in fact pay the energy company that provides them with the service of that investment. It is, of course, the only way to successfully implement energy efficiency projects in construction, and I hope that the models will go in that direction rather than towards the construction companies as planned. And I would just like to warn you that, according to my plans for energy projects, Croatia is not very concerned about the health of citizens because they are planning coal thermal power plants and we are seeing this now plan and the coal power plant in Ploča and the thermal power plants on coal, this has shown a whole series of scientific research causing very big problems of health related to airways and cancers due to floating particles. Although we are already planning coal thermal power plants, then we could apply those technologies that are better in health, which are combined gas, coal thermal power plants, or IGCC thermal power plants.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75827	Replicate response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75828	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, I agree completely. And evidence that the project rebuilds public building facades in the Republic of Croatia has experienced a complete debacle. However, this debacle, in addition to what you have presented and for the reason that the public sector in the Republic of Croatia has been over-indebted and was not realistic to expect that the government, government institutions, institutions and bodies of local or regional self-government will be able to respond to this project and that in one or two years, they will be able to be reconstructed for the purpose of raising this energy efficiency of 500 buildings and the public sector. There was another project called the so-called project. Green building that went to the private sector, which was going towards the arrangement and energy efficiency of private buildings, residential buildings in the Republic of Croatia where the funds for the Croatian Bank's energy efficiency for renovation and development could enable private owners to raise energy efficiency on their buildings for favourable loans which, given the less payment of the energy consumption fee, could return and justify the investment over several years. It was another system that required minimality, stronger access, more quality approach, development but where it would allow for new jobs and for fasaderes, stone-claves, etc., etc. It was roof covers, etc., etc. It was one of the projects this government had stopped, and it started out with a pompous announcement of a new project that had failed. I don't believe that I can be honest about this new project that was now published at the end of last year, and I don't believe that this project will again be based on the public sector's resources. And as for the planned thermo power plant in Ploca, I think it's still far from the initiative, let alone the realization.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75829	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of the Ante Sanader replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75830	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome Mr. Deputy Minister with his associates. You spoke about the reference laboratories and potential monopoly that has the State Hydrometeorological Institute and you mentioned private laboratories but we also have laboratories created the Institute of Public Health because large funds of the county, professional people there work and I think they might have a share in this important business as a viewer, it is estimated that they should also be given the opportunity and these laboratories are potentially able to do these jobs. And secondly, you mentioned, here may be your comment, and you have been... this law, in Article 72, changes, it is now Article 30, it is added that only these motor vehicle repairers must have some additional training to work with air conditioning. Why not have these upper repairers who operate air conditioning, and these motor vehicle repairers have to have it? I don't see why they're just being added that now they have to be further trained because it's again, professional people, professional air conditioning repairers, working in motor vehicle services.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75831	Replicate response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75832	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Sanader, so you know very well, you were also mayor, what is the position and wish of the Institute for Public Health of the Split-Dalmatia County. So I, once again, state that I support the establishment of criteria that must be met by individual laboratories and institutions in the Republic of Croatia, so if these criteria are met, let them be available, both the Local and the Regional Network, and then the State Network is available. In Croatia there are 2 reference laboratories and 11 testing laboratories that are currently conducting certain tests and measurements on these networks that I mentioned earlier. So let's raise that level even more than existing, determine what they have to meet, what all criteria they have to meet, but then allow them on the market to be available to them and the state to be in the first row of the Croatian Hydrometeorological Institute, let it be and is in this law that body that will check and monitor, monitor, upgrade that network, and in this way it seems to me that we will achieve better effects.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75833	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is up to the DC club and respected representatives of Independent Baloevic and MP Martincevic. Here you go, esteemed fellow Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75834	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Minister with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. These amendments and additions to the Law on Air Protection of the Republic of Croatia include the resolution of burning problems, air pollution, the destruction of the Ozone Cover and, in particular, global warming. Over 130 individual regulations, implementing decisions, the European Commission's decisions are being incorporated by this draft law into the Croatian legal system and that's good. It is introduced into our legal framework and strict, mostly breaking penalties for contaminants with glass and hydrochloric lead gases, and we could welcome that and that's good. However, apart from these global air pollution problems, we today have several local problems affecting a number of our citizens of Croatia, and we think it seems insufficient, or rather slow to solve the problem. So, if there is a saying "Think globally and acts locally", then it is precisely in this area of air pollution where we really need to change the local situation first in certain cities, in certain places in Croatia to contribute to better air quality, not only in Croatia, but also in the world. We will not say that Croatia has done nothing in this area, on the contrary, in the last few years it has made serious progress in legislation. However, the latest reports from these European environment agencies, but also from the Croatians, as I said that certain parts of Croatia have problems with large external concentrations of polluted substances. These polluters, as we could hear in previous discussions, also cause significant health problems for citizens, leading to increases and hospital receipts, additional medicines, millions of lost working days, and besides health problems, polluted air also causes significant damage in eco-systems on agricultural cultures, modern materials and can be said in cultural heritage. If you look at and compare Croatian and world standards, then the Croatian air is mostly clean and slightly polluted, but as I said, however, in certain urban areas it is moderately and excessively polluted. Of the recorded air pollution, the most important increases are the measured values of floating particles of benzopirane as the direct consequences of the transport industry in industrial centres and in the larger cities of northern Croatia such as Zagreb and Sisak. Also recorded are the high values of floating particles in Slavonski Brod as a consequence of the impact of cross-border air pollution conditioned by the work of the refinery of oil in the Bosnian Ship. The Slavonski Brod also recorded the overrun of the sulphur pipelines, also as a consequence of oil refinery emissions in the Bosnian Ship. Sumporvodika has been found at waste dumps in the Primorje-Gorski County, there are also in Rijeka and Sisak, increased and increased concentrations of carcinogenic..., overruns of ammonia have been observed continuously in Kutina. Elevated concentrations of melting substances are always near Kamenolom, etc. So there are a lot of problems in Croatia in this respect. What we would like to point out are emissions of harmful gases that we believe to be the worst and that come from the Refinery Oil Ship and that is a serious environmental problem of cross-border character that greatly disrupts the quality of life and health of Slavonski Brod and its inhabitants. It's already been over, I think 10 years since Russian investors bought the Bosanski Brod Refinery and for 10 years it seems that the battle of the 100,000 inhabitants of Slavonski Brod and the surrounding area for the right to clean air. I remind you, by purchase of the Refinery in the Bosnian Ship, investors have committed themselves to defuse the drive including environmental protection and to do so, but so far this has not been achieved or achieved only partially by installing a filter, and air pollution is the problem which continues to plague the people of Slavonski Brod. And as much as we wait for something of its own to happen, obviously nothing will happen because when you look at the audit reports published on the website of the Banja Luka Stock Exchange, it is clear that it is this Russian who is in big financial debt that some 223 million euros and it is evident that they will not be expected to meet all those contractual obligations they have committed but to meet the standards that are expected of them, or which Croatia itself has asked for. In February of last year, a meeting of ministers with the leaders of the refinery on resolving the issue was held in Rafineria Brod. A lot of promises have been made, but obviously nothing has happened since several months of those optimistic statements that things will change that the Croatian government will file an action before the European Commission over cross-border pollution against Republika Srpska and the oil refinery in the Bosnian Ship. I would really like to hear from the ministry's representatives what's happening with this because one year has been lost, and certain activities need to be done because this situation is absolutely unsustainable. Not only is this a problem that comes from Republika Srpska there is a kind of El Dorada for large energy projects, there are two TEs on coal, Ugljevik and Stanari very close to the border of the Republic of Croatia. whether BiH has informed Croatia of the impact of these projects on our country's environment, it is not clear, nor is it known. Our ministry issued a statement in this sense that it did not receive any BiH notification in accordance with Article 3. The Convention on the Assessment of Impact on the Environment of Cross-State Borders for TE Stanari Operation, however, sees this as a rather serious problem because they are located at the very border. This is by the assessment of our club a good law, a good solution, however not enough because without concrete action on the ground in terms of solving these burning problems Croatia's citizens will not benefit from such a law. I think that we need more use of our influence from a full member of the EU, I think that we should use more and only the participation of our ministers in the meetings of the European Commission, the action of our parliamentarians and the European Parliamentarians in the European Parliament and one of our Europarliamentaries Plenkovic has already asked a question, he has updated this problem before the Commissioner of the European Commission for Environmental Protection. We are not satisfied with the European Commission's response, and that is why we need to be much more active to point out this problem and find a solution together with the European Commission. Because just passing this law is not by itself the purpose of complimenting ourselves now in some information age how we have a great law, how advanced we are, how we are at the highest of all the highest standards of protecting human health in the world, and in fact we have problems like this that people are getting more and more sick and more than the most severe diseases of cancer. Here, we, as the Club of Representatives of the DC and Independent Representatives Martincevic and Balojevic, will support this law with the natural amendment of certain parts that we hold disputed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75835	Thank you very much. We have replicas, respected representative Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75836	Dear fellow Members of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt, exactly what you said at the end of your presentation I already mentioned in the replica, you said without concrete solutions would not benefit from such laws. I'm sure of it. It is not the purpose of passing a law, the basic purpose of the law, but of applying the law. We know well that from two German to before the fall of the Berlin Wall one was called the Democratic Republic, and the other had no need to be called a democratic one, it was the Democratic Republic. Therefore, we have no use for pure declaration. You have established at the very beginning of the exposure that Croatian air is relatively clean in Croatia, but you have located that there are local problems, we talk more about global pollution than we care about local ones. Why? Because when we talk about global pollution, we don't have anything to do with it, we don't have any obligations, people sense that we're noble because we care about the planet, but we don't worry about what the Sisans think, what the Brodians think, what they think. Not what they think, that these children growing up in the polluted air are growing on the assumption that they're going to get some serious disease. Unfortunately, we are not worried about those outside of Brod or who are outside Sisak who are in the center of Zagreb, we are not concerned enough, but that is not our problem. How do you solve the problem? You were the one who mentioned the refineries in the Bosnian ship how local self-government could solve the issue. The issue should be resolved by the Croatian state. As the issue has nothing to do with this topic, the Croatian state should resolve in Istria, coast and islands where there is no television signal, and people should pay for a television subscription, this should be resolved by the state. The state therefore exists that what cannot local self-government solves these issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75837	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Vesna Škara Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75838	Dear colleague Vuksic, you have opened a lot as a topic in principle, I agree with everything you have said. In some ways you don't replicate, we really agree. Croatian politics is famous for being great, here I am now saying it all together because we are taking part in it, brilliant theorists but very weak practitioners. And that we have great laws that are very weak or almost not implemented in reality. These crisis points of air pollution in certain parts of Croatia should seriously concern all of us because our inaction directly depends on the health of people who are currently in certain parts, in certain cities, and here I now specifically cite Sisak and Slavonski Brod where things really do not move seriously. And in some ways we will all be responsible for an increased number of cancers, for an increased number of asthma, for an increased number of pulmonary diseases unless we are actively solving these really painful air pollution points, air pollution in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75839	Shimo Djurdjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75840	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I am also a colleague from the V. Electoral Unit of Slavonski Brod, grateful that you have devoted much of your debate to the town of Slavonski Brod and that you have come out with precise indicators of air pollution in Slavonski Brod, the work of the Refinery in Bosnia and Herzegovina. On a roundtable two years ago in the campaign for this Parliament, I have said and I now repeat that the local community cannot solve this problem and is in favour of what counterpart Vuksic has commented. It cannot be solved with the problem can and must be resolved at the level of two ministries or at the level of two states. The departments are on their way to solve this problem, but the problem remains. I would like to say that it would be to inform colleagues here in parliament and the government that the Brodians can no longer wait and that this problem must continue to be resolved more intensively at the level of the two states.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75841	The answer to the line of Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75842	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, you are right, this is not a local topic, this is a national topic, it requires the full engagement of not only one ministry but also the government as a whole, it requires engagement and the European Commission, in this case because it is difficult to force Russian investors or refineries in the Bosnian Ship to set up all those protective devices that are needed to clear the air. We must simply come to a solution, and we should really be full of synergies between both the government and the ministries and the representatives and the Europarliamentaries and do continued pressure, finally we are a Member State of the European Union and we need to set ourselves up as such because, in others, I do not believe that another Member State of the European Union would suffer such a thing at its borders, and especially because more new projects are going, as I said Republika Srpska is of one kind and that is not just me and some other eldorado for energy investments. If we are going to have serious consequences from that Eldorado in the entire border area and then it will continue to spread, then it becomes a really big interstate issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75843	On behalf of the HNS representative's club, counterpart Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75844	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Deputy with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, several comments regarding a law that is very important to me in the HNS but very certain representatives of other options, clubs and parties in this House. The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Air Protection falls into matter which should actually answer the question of whether we are aware of one great truth. Usually in our people there is a saying that we have inherited something from our old. However, when we talk about the basic characteristics of habitats in which we live as a species, when we talk about values such as drinking water, forest land, agricultural land, marine eco-systems and renewable wealth of the sea, renewable land resources, then we need to know the real truth. We didn't inherit anything from old ladies and gentlemen but we borrowed from future generations. What we are talking about today is an extremely important topic about this and several examples of difficulties, which testify to the difficulties that others have in Croatia, especially in the case of the Bosnian-Brodic Refinery, which is in the hands of Russian owners, but we can also speak openly now about the problems they have and the people of Sisak because of what is missing eventually or not raised to a sufficient level of protection in the Sisak refinery. However, in politics it is necessary to start applying a new method, which is to tell the truth and start with the basis of reality. It sounds very nice when any of us, colleagues and colleagues, so let's say I personally show great concern for the citizens of Slavonski Brod, for the citizens of Sisak and say that something is not local but a national topic and we forget the truth. Only by insisting on respecting a quality legal standard, by insisting on respect can something be done when it comes to disciplining private-owned business entities. The mammalian refinery of ladies and gentlemen is no longer under the control of Croatian politics. The Croatian state is no longer a majority owner, i.e. the owner who is dominantly deciding on INA's business moves as well as the Bosnian State, i.e. the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina is not in a position to create a business policy of Russian owners, and is not even in a position to be too strict a corrective one because there is one great truth. Environmental protection is at the lowest level in poor countries, in countries with serious social problems, in third world countries. And so to all colleagues and colleagues who are building their political future precisely on these topics intensively, opposed to any business venture, any project in the context of Croatian interests and the possibility of dealing with this issue in the future as a developed European state, I recommend that we have criteria and think before we decide to become more Catholic than the Pope. That's what I'm saying when it comes to the construction of hydrocentrals, but also when it comes to the construction of those economic operators, energy entities, or plants that would have gas emissions, particles and everything else tomorrow. Let's get back to the scale of things. These amendments and additions to the laws are amendments and additions to the laws adopted on 24 January 2011 in order to comply with the fundamental legal documents of the European Union which are intended to address the accession of European countries to this very important issue. A whole series of documents such as some previous speakers and speakers have said are actually a very large part of the legal property of the European Union dealing with this problem. And it is very good, however, great that it can be established with full right that one of the best components of the legal gain of the European Union is this, that it is very good and encouraging, to implore the European Union at the very top of the political communities and factors in the global order dealing with the problem of global warming, climate change, greenhouse gas emissions, the preservation of the ozone envelope and all other important issues that are regulated by these parts of the acquis, and thus by this law and all the sublegal acts adopted by it, which aim to bring it into line with European action in this area. As for the efforts of the Croatian state in the context of air pollution in Slavonski Brod due to the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina refinery and the accumulation of Croatia's national policy of criticism whether or not it has done enough on this issue in recent years, we must also conclude one truth. What the Croatian Government can do is use the institutions of international law, what the Croatian state can do is try to relieve the concerns of the citizens of Slavonski Brod in any other way. What the Croatian state can do is make every effort on the diplomatic path, on the diplomatic field and try to influence the actions of the Government of the Republic of BiH and its institutions through dialogue. But we need to be realistic, what we can resent possibly for Croatian politics yesterday, today or any future when it comes to such things is whether they have put enough effort or not and whether, in the context of international law, they have used all those options at their disposal. But we cannot accuse Croatian politics yesterday or today because of the situation that is there. The HNS Club advocates precisely because of the importance of this issue that this well-developed legal framework, which we have mostly copied from developed and rich countries that have invested in their economies, but by applying very high standards and advanced technologies, is applied consistently, not to remain just a letter on paper. Because finally, once again, all the values of the environment we live in, all of its characteristics that are necessary to survive as a species in this area, we did not inherit them from our old ones, but we borrowed them from our grandchildren. And so far, on the national agenda, until we entered the European community, we did not do the best in all the domains of the task because by doing the job I have done for 20 years, I will once again mention it in this House, thanks to the irresponsibility of Croatian politics, the most. I had the opportunity to witness the sea dying beneath my deck and it was a crime among other things and this High House and Croatian High Policy. Let us not miss either the Parliament or the executive authority in the future make sure that the laws of this type are strictly implemented, that their application is supervised because we are responsible for future generations. The HNS Club will support this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75845	Thank you, too. Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75846	Thank you very much. My colleague Baranovic, your debate went one way, I'd say technically managerial, at least at the beginning. In fact, you talked about the damage caused by the emissions of different gases, so you mentioned the hydrocenter most likely thinking of Omble, but you also mentioned Slavonski Brod, and you didn't say that this air pollutant in Slavonski Brod and County of the Ship-Posavina so it gets oil by transporting through JANAF, so we know that it's state-owned, we know who it's titled to tell the director, etc. And whose domain is in the Kukurik coalition JANAF. That's what you left out to say, so I thought it was necessary to say it in the replica because JANAF makes tens of millions of kunas a year on the oil refinery in the Bosnian Ship. So if we could stop it because of air pollution, if you'd stop it then how would JANAF do it? It seems to me that one causal and consequential bond is that the rabbit lies in that bush and that is the reason it is not actually intervened by the Croatian state, which could be.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75847	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75848	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Grubisic, you know the valves on the pipelines aren't the valves on the home tap as we say in Dalmatia, so we'll close the water. They're technically made very similar. However, they are subject to international commitments, contracts and overall relations with neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina. As far as I've been able to figure out from your replica, you're on the idea that we're going to shut down the problem of emissions of harmful gases in the Bosnian ship by completely interrupting diplomatic relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina, to shut down their oil supply or whatever it is we have to do to launch an air strike on a refinery in the Bosnian Ship with those two moments that we're currently flying or those 12 that have to come. Let's be serious, ladies and gentlemen and colleagues, Grubisic! It is very nice to beat the norm, but it is not necessary to lose sight of the quality of what is said, as well as the responsibility for what is said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75849	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75850	You're telling your colleague that the business policy of many of those who pollute the environment, the air is not in our hands. That's right, it's happening on our ground. That's why this bill, too, is why, above all, the criminal law which still has very few fines for crimes against the protection of the environment. Although there are a whole series of crimes in Chapter XX against the environment as environmental pollution, the threat of the ozone layer and I still think two, three crimes. The maximum sentence of prison is five years and even in difficult forms. It's mostly criminal acts that were committed out of nowhere. But this example that you're talking about, and here's where I take advantage of your opportunity and replicate, and in preparation, the new Penal Code says that the new technological age requires stricter sanctions made out of nothing. They're sometimes more serious crimes, but they're not often. They're just supposed to stop. Often, such crimes are related to abuse of position, with even criminal associations, so that profits can be achieved, to protect them, to save them on such facilities without accounting on purpose or on purpose, and the consequences are the same, very difficult in environmental pollution. And I think this bill must be in line with the coming amendments to the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75851	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75852	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I can agree with you because capital is generally as a civilization and as a society beyond the context of the Croatian society itself has given enough freedom to earn, profit and what is definitely needed is that through such laws and through such legal solutions we force that same capital to be responsible, to be socially responsible and to be responsible for the environment in which it works, in which it invests and earns. As for your finding that failures from this domain need to be prescribed both the strictest and strictest provisions and sanctions for offenders, or those who do not comply with the law. I fully agree with you because some failures, respect for this law may have the most catastrophic, worst consequences, much worse than some other criminal offences from other criminal rights areas that are adequately punishable and which may be punishable by the most severe penalties known to our legal system. Thus, a sentence of up to five years in prison when it comes to responsibility for environmental protection, even in situations where it can have catastrophic consequences and flight consequences for the population. I completely agree with you here, and that's a matter that needs to be discussed seriously.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75853	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75854	Dear colleague Baranovic, I fully agree with you. When we talk about this thing, we can't be hypocritical. No life without health, no life without a healthy environment, because there's no god in my life without a job. We need to calm two things down. You have warned of one fact that we do not talk too much about in the Croatian Parliament, which is the weaker and weaker power of the state, not only of the Croatian state. And in the end, you have now mentioned in this replica the socially responsible capital. It's a very difficult social responsibility to connect with capital. That's my opinion, and practice supports it. But that we need to talk about that the state is getting more and more powerless to ensure its citizens a healthy life and a good job, the job that you can live on, you just showed on the example of Slavonski Brod what the state can do. It's a long way to do more, it needs to be more energetic. But again, I agree with you, we can't start a war on a refinery in a Bosnian ship. But that this is a general and global problem that we certainly will not solve by this law and we will not solve this debate. But that we should encourage the government to be tighter in negotiations, in talks, in agreements with neighbouring countries if neighbouring countries threaten our health or violate sovereignty in any way it is true.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75855	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75856	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleague Vuksic, I also agree with you that we in the Parliament must do what they say in Dalmatia on the matter. It is a question that should not only be opened from opportunity to occasion, especially in some periods of that political cycle that we call a mandate. So before the elections, let's remember that people in Slavonski Brod are in danger, and very serious, and when those periods go by, or if there's no such item on the agenda, then it's a year before anyone even mentions it. And this issue does not only solve politics and political will but also solve red tape. Bureaucracies is something that is characteristicly slow and ineffective and that you have to make it work. And indeed, given the seriousness of the situation in Brod, it is necessary to discuss this issue intensively and to follow this issue closely and to update this issue as long as it takes until things are resolved. And you also said about socially responsible and irresponsible capital. The capital can be placed in legal frameworks and it can also get good results. Let's face it, in general, not only when it comes to air pollution but generally in the context of environmental pollution, today is the worst situation in third-world countries that are at a lower level of economic development and that have a very bad social picture. They are forced today to accept those worst types of industrial production where it is not even normised to apply the most qualitative solutions in terms of protection because they are forced to accept such a capital dictatorship. And it is a very clear picture in organised societies such as the EU, in societies that have an appropriate level of standards for citizens with appropriate economic strength, there is room for the most advanced technologies to be applied and very responsible and rationally managed and very responsible and rationally implemented environmental protection policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75857	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75858	Thank you. Well, a colleague of mine would also add to the part where you said we had to pay attention not to actually become ourselves and our victim's economy sometimes really also bizarre so-called. I'm worried about the environment. And here I agree with you because in a deindustrialized society, in a society where virtually all industry has collapsed, I don't think there's much to worry about environmental pollution from industrial chimneys in Croatia anymore. So, including one or two factors that are to a lesser extent actually as you yourself said in the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia. But I think maybe we should talk more about what is today the biggest pollutant actually air and nature, and that's actually traffic and all that traffic produces and creates as a cause of pollution especially in large cities. I don't think industry today really is anymore. And what are the measures and what are being taken about traffic? I will remind, for example, other than those criminal taxes on exhaust emissions where we are very rigorous, even more rigorous than many EU countries, we, for example, for gas-driving vehicles, are introducing additional charges and we are in fact making it impossible to cross, for example, the vehicle's fuel-to-gas user. So we have a series of intrusions in the registration of parafiscals that actually make it difficult for people who have gas-to-gas vehicles. Also, there is no incentive when it comes to the introduction of vehicles that have fewer emissions of harmful gases for the purchase of new vehicles and the like. I think the total traffic problem caused by pollution should pay more attention in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75859	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75860	Thank you very much. I agree with my colleague Đurović, and unfortunately that is Croatian truth, traffic may be the biggest contaminant of the moment in Croatia. Because we've deindustrized a very smart and intelligent state to absurdity. We've closed everything and ruined everything. And we ran energy policy so that even after the biggest electricity consumers are, for example, like the Sibenik TLM or the Sibenik TEF, and after they shut down their plants and stopped pulling so much electricity, we are now energy-dependent, we depend on the rain. We're ladies and gentlemen of the country that depends on the rain. If it rains well, if it doesn't rain badly. And if there's too much flood, it's bad again. And we'll be addicted to rain while in some segments of political action and reflection we keep trying to be more Catholic than the pope. Catholics, therefore, follow the most advanced technologies, prescribe very strict norms but we cannot run a policy of preventing everything. Because I stress we will become, and we are already on the verge of it, poor society. And when we become a poor society, then more environmental protection, ladies and gentlemen, there will be no topic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75861	Damir Mateljan, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75862	Thank you. Dear colleague Baranovic, I fully agree with you in that part of your debate that you had about pollution in Slavonski Brod. In fact, you said that Croatia must be realistic in its actions, especially the Ministry of Environmental Protection. I think just over the past year, the ministry has shown, therefore, that exactly at the level of the inter-resor ministry, the ministry is doing so. So, he is negotiating with a resolute ministry in the Republic of BiH as he has negotiated and pointed to the problem of polluting Slavonski Brod from the Bosnian Brod refinery and with ethnicity in Republika Srpska. Likewise, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has prepared an Agreement on cooperation in the field of environmental protection with BiH, and the document is under discussion in the bodies of the Republic of BiH. At the same time, the professional part of solving the problem was also carried out, so some things were specifically and agreed, such as the task force that controls or measures the amount of pollution in Slavonski Brod, where a new measurement station was installed is also installed, and a new measurement station was installed in the refinery itself in Brod and the minister himself spoke with the owner of the refinery in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So what the government and the ministry needed to do in terms of negotiation did. However, residents of Slavonski Brod, as it was said clearly cannot wait any longer, apparently the ministry has reached the ceiling of its possibilities. And now the whole problem should be included by the European Foreign Ministry in order to solve the problem with a lawsuit or otherwise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75863	Stephen Milinkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75864	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Baranovic, you spoke of inheriting and borrowing, of course, in the context of environmental protection and in the wider European frameworks, we have a relatively well preserved and I agree with you that we are obliged to leave such a place for generations to come. The quality of this environment is unnecessary to say how much the forest, water, agricultural land contributes. But I also agree with you that we are obliged to tell the truth, so it's true that when we last week or when we talked in this High House about forests, it's not acceptable and it's good to say now, you see now because of those dozens of white suits that are going to push there that ball is possible to cut so many woods, coming with a motorcycle. It's harmful and irreparable damage. Another thing, about agricultural land. You know that we were talking about the same size of surfaces that are going to be brought into operation and not brought simply, these days the rules on the availability of agricultural land are being changed and simply if it wasn't for that famous regulation the minister would certainly have a larger area in office today. It is also true that no matter how we think at national level, we also think locally. You spoke very emotionally of the sea, and I'm talking about the part where I come from. I'm talking not about milk, my fellow darling. I'm talking about gas. My environment, our county is almost 60% of the gas for so-called production contributions. And what's going on? I'm sure in that part we're also participating those harmful moments. So, sulphur hydrogen, all the other moments. But look now that the rent has been distributed, which is now very short, this one is cutting into the most participatory ones in the area, so the funds are being increased by the state budget and the county. Is that fair? It's not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75865	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75866	I listened very carefully to your line, so we'll talk. I'll start from the beginning, from the golf course and the forest law. Namely, it would be interesting if when you were in Dalmatia, here I will spend you as a good host to see what these surfaces are like as forest land, which are included in the forest economic base, to see that landscape that we need to protect so as not to create the five or six golf courses that we need for the tourist offer. When you talk about putting into service agricultural land. I agree with you here. I am not personally satisfied with the dynamics of putting agricultural land into operation because it is a very important resource on which a significant shift of employment in Croatia can be based and repairing the increased production of balance, import, export of agricultural products. However, I think it is equally important to put it in the right way and to take care not only of whether or not we use it in a maximum but also how we use it because you know very well because you are from these parts that wrong use of agricultural land can also have long-term consequences. The gas issue that comes out in your neighborhood, you get part of the ecological rent. Of course you don't get everything, one part pulls the state budget and I'll combine it with the maritime goods as well as the important coast, as an important resource of the Croatian state in which the local community also gets 33% according to the existing law and one large part withdraws the state level. This is so, the rents are the income of such a nature and the state budget from which your local community will also look for certain things in the domain of education, social policy, infrastructure, investment must have everything to pay for and what is required of it. The budget, finance and money would be good if we finally introduced politics in Croatia to speak correctly, responsible also on the basis of actual facts and figures because mathematics is exact, you know, it has no hope. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75867	Vice President Milorad Batinic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75868	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Namely, you showed your colleague Baranovic that the debate on a very important topic, which is, in some ways, the commitment of the club, or the HNS, that there may be less. You have pointed out through your debate on the globality of the topic, on the law applicable to the territory of the Republic of Croatia, however, this is an interest not only in Europe, this is a global problem, and what I would particularly like to highlight from your debate, perhaps you have not clearly highlighted the politicization of individuals to a sufficient extent, meaning on one subject, on some topics that are of paramount importance where there is practically no world-renowned reading the importance of the topic of certain investment projects, that it has been used, I would dare say the subject of human health and everything that is related to environmental protection specifically in this case for the protection of the Air Protection Act, that they have abused themselves for low political purposes. In fact, just to remind you that for another 50 and 60 years last century, we heard, we shrunk, we read the notion of acid rain somewhere. The Plomin thermal power plant has not polluted the soil and affected the drying of food in the Gorski Kotar. Namely, knowing the rose winds of interrogations and professions on the Italian side, on our part, means it was the influence of the North Italian industry, which will also say about the problem of Slavonski Brod, the Bosnian Ship means what in your debate specifically to praise it is the globality of the topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75869	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75870	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Batinić, that this is a global topic, it is a topic of survival, and I absolutely do not mind those politicians, however, it is very commendable, which deals with this topic and is mostly about this topic, but I appeal to the criteria, because only by respecting quality criteria can we achieve responsibility, find an equilibrium between good intentions and what we will do and what we will ultimately make political work as a final result. In some situations, exaggeration has done real damage, the economy of this country and national interests, and indirectly, I stress once again that this country's ability to be responsible, high-quality, clearly standardised way of using the most advanced technological solutions engaged in responsible and consistent protection... It's just like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75871	On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, counterpart Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75872	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy with assistants, colleagues and fellow agents. Here, equilibristics has improved today in some exhibitions, and then it is said that the rhythm of the country's capital and economy must be in equilibristics, in balance to say Croatian with the EU's ecological standards and, of course, Croatia as EU members. It is said that the socially responsible capital that is also important in order to achieve environmental objectives is mentioned, and I hope that the foreign minister did not hear this alleged battle cry from two planes, the MIC team that would eventually head for the Refinery in the Bosnian Ship, because it would only then be with the aggression of Croatia to BiH, which was assessed by the foreign minister a decade ago as an aggression even though we protected Bihač and everything else. So this time we have aggression from BiH, environmental aggression against Croatia. It can be defined, clearly and loudly. So, the work of the Refinery in the Bosnian Ship endangers the people of Slavonski Brod and there is no excuse in the rhythm of capital in socially irresponsible or responsible, as someone said, capital, citizens of Slavonski Brod are just paying the price of the rhythm of that capital, as someone here thus picturesquely expressed the rhythm of capital and socially responsible capital. Citizens of Slavonski Brod, children of Slavonski Brod with numerous airway diseases, which are affected by sulfur, acid rain, benzene, floating particles and a series of other substances released by the Rafineria in the Bosnian Ship, which is..., we must say loudly and loudly, by transporting oil through Yanaf and it is our state-owned company that has its profits and the price and profits is actually the health of the city of Slavonski Brod which has lost in the last 10 years 8,000 inhabitants. 10 years ago, in 2001, Zadar had the same population as Slavonski Brod, the difference was in 100 inhabitants, today Zadar has 20,000 more inhabitants than the Slavonski Brod. One reason the town of Brod has lost so many inhabitants is the ecological situation in Slavonski Brod, where it is unhealthy to live. And it is not true that the state of Croatia can do nothing or that there are no measures that can be done if one, I repeat, HDF, an ordinary Russian citizen sued Russia for Russia's Russian refinery and gave a positive outcome at the European Court of Human Rights for its, not endangering health, but for reducing the standards of its life. They don't have to measure stations that exist in Slavonski Brod, and there's one stationary and one supposedly now mobile that's still being calibrated, I don't know, they'll tell us here maybe the deputy minister, it's still calibrating, and it hasn't yet entered full power, no matter what they're throwing out the constant numbers, it's almost always border numbers of quantity and benzene, so it's a half or pollution of air and sulfur and a series of other ingredients floating in the air, floating particles. So despite these results that these measurement stations are throwing out, we have a reduced quality of life because of the smell that you can smell in the morning when you wake up, in the evening when you're lying down, at noon when you're walking the kids next to Sava, your granddaughter, etc. When you hang the laundry on the rope, on the bar, as we say in Slavonia, so the laundry will dry, then you bring it into the house, and you have the smell and smell of the Refinery in the Bosnian Ship. It's an endangered and reduced quality of life. Those who travel from Đakova and Osijek to Zagreb to the Parliament, as one of my colleagues who is no longer, he is the mayor of Đakova, says when traveling through the Ship must close his nose. It's not the amount that matters, and very often there's a break in the amount of these toxic particles in the air, but it says it's not continuous, but only occasionally break through, we have peaks, in certain days breaking the amount of concentrate or concentration of benzene, sulfur or other particles, and then it's not dangerous, but the quality of life in Slavonski Brod is damaged, threatened. That's what this is about. The same thing has a Russian citizen sued the refinery and state Russia and won a dispute at the Court of Human Rights. What does the Croatian State do about it? Mr. Zmajlovic went to the refinery in February of last year, it was said that nothing was done and that the BiH state would be sued so-called. Republika Srpska and I don't know who. But is it so-called. The rhythm of capital, is it socially responsible or irresponsible capital? What's this about? And we still have one, ha I won't say an opportunity or a trouble to build us 3km away from the refinery and the gas giant gas Te in Slavonski Brod, so we'll have sulfuric compounds on the one hand, and on the other hand we can all move out of Slavonski Brod because of the slowness of solving this issue, because again I say inactivity, or I don't know what I'd call laziness, or I'll say so again. The rhythm of capital. But let's move on. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Air Protection with the Final Proposal of the Law shall consist, or above all, of the provision of DHMZ and the Institute of Medical Research and Medicine in Croatia. What does that mean? which means in a situation where this same DHZM and IMI themselves declare that they are not humanly equipped enough for that function. They're informing the ministry themselves that they don't have enough personnel to do that. This means new employment in these state institutions in addition to the existence of accredited and capable laboratories that can measure and have so far had the opportunity to measure the quality or quality of air throughout the country. How many measured stations are there in the state of Croatia? There are 9 mains that cover say 90% which is satisfactory, 90% of the Republic of Croatia and there are 11 of those background that like to say it by the Minister of Transport English, so those in the background who are susceptible and whose results are analysed by DHZM. What are those background backgrounds? So these are the ones where there are meteorologically existing, on the Olivian, the Plitvices, etc. They certainly must show very good results, for there is certainly no air pollution on the Envy, nor on the Plitvices. Deindustrialisation of Croatia has also led to the fact that there is no air pollution in some major civil agglomerations, but unfortunately the problem of Slavonski Brod and the problem of Sisak, even though we know the situation with both refinery and Željezar in Caprag as to how it is said about the suburbs of Sisak, Caprag, we know the situation of privatisation and all other problems related to these two plants in Sisak. Amendments to Article 28 of this Law do not respect the points of view of the profession. They would result in an increase in the total costs of managing the state network, by transferring under DHMZ and IMI, by creating parallel systems, by further increasing public sector employees, by suffocating the entrepreneurial initiative, by reducing the efficiency of the system and by further losing air quality measurement results and by failing to meet EU commitments. I'll just remind the ministry gentlemen that the results that DHMZ on these 11 back ground or background stations did except for the measurement of ozone are not valid for last year, precisely because it wasn't teamed up in DHMZ. Only for ozone is valid, quality measurement, and for the rest it is not. And when we take where they're located you back in the ground background to tell the observatory or the measurement stations for air quality, then it's quite clear that that measurement of the ozone is let me say and technically correct but the results are valid. For 10 years there has been a refinery in the Bosnian Ship, 10 years the citizens of Slavonski Brod have been struggling with this evil that has worked ten years ago. Clearly, the refinery is private but we know where it is, and here we have heard that it is in a dubiosis or certain losses of over 200 million euros. As I expect from the owner of this Russian refinery, I will not appoint this gentleman, that he will install filters, expensive filters if he is in a dubio for 230m euros. Croatia is also somewhat responsible for the Dayton Agreement, but also for the policy led by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in order for BiH to approach the pre-accession negotiations as quickly as possible, so that both this topic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, not only the Ministry of Environmental Protection, put this topic on the agenda, and that both in talks in the EU and in the European Commission, condition the resolution of this problem, and not so that every year it may go to a conversation in the refinery with the owner or mayor of the Bosnian Ship and some of the Ministers of Republika Srpska's Environment but rather act towards European institutions because Slavonski Brod is within the EU as well as Plitvice, as well as Obvižan as any other city in Croatia and citizens of Slavonski Brod have the right to clean air as everyone else in the Republic of Croatia. And not that this way is constantly here, but I don't know which time this speaker is talking about it because it's an opportunity and the law tells me about it. What to do with that declared policy 5 times 20, I say, it's 3 times 20, so 20% renewable energy, 20% greenhouse gas reduction and 20% energy efficiency increase that's 3 times per, but by 2020 it's 2 times 20, if we watch how the number is written in 2020, so 5 times 20. How far did we get in there? We're only here to wander around all the time. We wander in the strategy of the energy development of the Republic of Croatia when the Government of the Republic of Croatia spoke about the thermal power plant on the coal of Luka Ploče 2 years ago. There was no speech, no mention. Now back a few months ago, here's your thermal power plant in Tablets, on coal, on whose coal, on what coal? Brazilian? And the "data room" is rented I don't know what, 5,000 euros, so-called. a geodetic map room in the Adriatic, which also says the minister is a huge and large, rich and Norwegian firm allegedly claims to be a gas site in the sea. So aren't the plates at sea, so isn't Plomin almost on the Adriatic Sea? And we'll be bringing coal from Brazil. And I get the impression that when I close my eyes a little bit that it's the 19th century Birmingham, it was the largest industrial center of England then or the UK or the United Kingdom and imagine that picture of Birmingham in the 19th century. In tourist areas, in the fact that tourism has become our strategic branch of the economy, Pločama, in the Neretva Valley, what are we going to get now? What are the consequences of the Termo power plant in Plomin, what isn't its name already? Acid forests Is that over yet? [[Thank you very much.]] Okay. Thank you. We've got an individual, so I'll keep going. Mostly the HDSSB club won't accept such a legal proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75873	Shimo Djurdjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75874	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Grubisic, I agree with what you said about air pollution in Slavonski Brod. But we can't stop at this, that's my thinking, and that's why I refer to your debate. We have to move on. We must also have representatives and citizens of Slavonski Brod as far as they came in the talks, negotiations by the two ministries, two ministries if the job is not, if it is not going in the direction agreed on in the Bosnian Ship, it is the turn that the European Union institutions take adequate measures through our EU representatives on the situation in the Bosnian ship, i.e. in a Slavonic ship. And since Bosnia and Herzegovina has a tendency to enter the European Union of course, the institutions of the European Union can take adequate measures to finally resolve this problem after 10 years. And secondly, a colleague of yours mentioned in your debate, which is a hydrometerological institution. We Brodjani, we Slavons have a bad experience with the Croatian Hydrometeorological Institute when it comes to fighting defences, and from year to year, the haired reports of experts from the Hydrometerological Institute that the missile for defence against the fighting produced in Slavonski Brod are not effective, so now we have huge damage to the fight. But Macedonian and Montenegrin rockets are the same. We at the hydrometeorological institute in this case to do this job, I personally don't trust.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75875	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75876	When it comes to the European possibilities of solving this ecological problem in Slavonski Brod, which is already chronic because 10 years of work of the refinery you have children who have asthma, bronchitis and various other diseases, it may still be early to talk about malignancies in view of the course of time and development of such malignancies, i.e. an increase in number, incident, therefore the frequency of the development of malignant diseases in Slavonski Brod, but there are also indications that there is also a shift compared to the time before the start of the refinery. So one shift up, in number of those who have malignant disease after opening the refinery. So in Europe, there is also an environmental committee in the European Parliament where this should be encouraged, there is a debate on this. And then it will come to a plenary session and certain solutions that will be imposed by both the European Parliament and the European Commission. Like this, someone said that one of our MPs was saying something about it, not enough, should be talking about it every day. Secondly, the defence against the fight, we all know that Croatia has also "Djuro Djakovic" tools that produce anti-building missiles but the Resistant State Hydrometeorological Institute rejects any possibility of efficiency and efficiency, as scientifically not proven, etc., although rockets are imported from both Bulgaria and Macedonia a third and rockets are only taken from Đura Djakovic in one-third. So 6000 rockets two from Djura Djakovica Toolnica, two from Macedonia and 2000 from Bulgaria. Why is that? Although Djura Djakovic's license is both used by Macedonia and Bulgaria, this is amazing. That's, I don't mean to insinuate, but I'm afraid it's a crime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75877	And Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75878	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, as you often know, even on a flat-rate basis, that there is no energy strategy, that suddenly some kind of thermoelectric power plant appears in the plates. So the thermal power plant is not at all in Croatia's strategy, the Croatian government has an energy strategy, it is clear and visible. When we talk about Plomino and coal, it's quite clear when you use resources and energy sources that you have to diversify, that you can't rely on just one source because it's crucial that we know and act ourselves on the world market, so the prices of energy sources are different. What we have crucially, it's a hydroenergy that is most invested in, and energy development, energy independence, the strategic plan of this government, I wonder what they've been doing so far, other governments, and we understand that we have hydropotentials, we've opened up an exceptional space to be a key player in the gas sector as well. And also what we have which is the natural wealth that needs to be preserved, but also the natural wealth of oil and gas both in the sea and in the Pannonian region is something that has not been used so far, which is not planned, which is not used in an adequate way to benefit the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, not the energy independence that this Government is working on. It means that it will be safe energy in Croatia, long-term and cheaper, and that we will not depend on the so-called. Big players.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75879	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75880	My colleague Gjurkovic, when I'm as casual as you say, I'd ask you and then I'll talk to you later and you can tell me where the coal thermal power plant is still building in Europe. Nowhere. Nowhere but two in Croatia, nowhere else. Well, that's 19th century technology, coal. Furthermore, you have also founded your former president who is currently in Pula, in a pulse prison, the Energy and Investment Centre. What are the results besides buying cars with heated seats? What are the results of that Energy Center, that's what it's called, that's your center and your 2.5-year reign in energy, let's tell me. And I'm a cobweb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75881	We're moving on to an individual debate. My colleague Mirela Holly, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75882	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning of the presentation on the final draft of the law amending and supplementing the Air Protection Act, I would like to say that I will support the adoption of this law that aligns Croatian legislation with European air protection laws and combating and adapting to climate change. This is a very dynamic legislative area at European Union level, part of the priority common European policy, financially extremely demanding for Member States. Matter is very difficult and complex, I would say incomprehensible to most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but extremely important to the future of Croatia, but also to the world. This law also regulates Croatia's obligations in the field of mythigation and adaptation to climate change, and climate change is the greatest global threat to life on earth and the survival of civilization. I know it's extremely difficult in these conditions, the conditions of an extremely difficult economic crisis to talk about air protection and, in general, environmental protection, that even provokes many people who don't have enough to survive naked, but we all have to bear in mind that without clean air, there's no life on earth. We are in vain of all economic development, the comedy of modern life unless we protect this with water and soil, the most important resource in the world. As already pointed out today during the debate, this law gives Croatia a harmonisation with the rest of the European Union in the section relating to the system of trade in emission units through the Union register, and will also assign units to the Republic of Croatia for the state, units owned by plant operators and aircraft operators and others to be registered in the European Register. The European Union regulations also set out a methodology for effective monitoring and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions at national level to reduce burdens on applicants. I particularly welcome the changes relating to the obligation for Member States to make and implement not only a low-carbon strategy on which the UNDP has been working for a long time, a larger adaptation strategy or adaptation to climate change, and Member States are obliged to report on the implementation of these two extremely important strategies. I dare say that the adaptation strategy is far more important for Croatia at this time. Why, because year after year we see the escalation of the effects of climate change in the form of weather and climatic extremes through floods and droughts, which directly undermines the Croatian economy, especially strategically important agriculture. This is why it is of paramount importance, parallel to the development of the Agricultural Strategy, to work on an adaptation strategy to reduce the adverse effects of floods and droughts, and these extremities will only increase, reduce to a sustainable level. This final proposal is also in line with a series of new European rules governing the reduction and elimination of consumption, substances that damage the ozone layer and fluorinated greenhouse gases, which I also welcome. However, the promoter, the Ministry of Environment and Nature, has not only cared about harmonising with European regulations in these changes, but has taken advantage of this opportunity to change some of the provisions relating to the state air quality monitoring network which are fully transferred to the State Air Protection Institute, i.e. in part to the Institute of Medical Research. These changes have caused considerable controversy in the interested professional public, which is understandable because it implies that the private sector, i.e. the authorised companies, will lose some of the jobs and the rather lucrative jobs they have worked for the state so far. In this respect, I understand the proposal's desire and ambition to entrust these matters and the supervision of them to state institutions. That's not controversial. But what's problematic about this part of the change is what happens if DHMZ is not too long, I remind you it's the beginning of 2016, not being able to fully take over these jobs. What happens to the state network then? I was Minister of Environmental and Nature Protection and during my short six-month term of office quite often I participated in discussions on this issue and openly admit that my ambition was to leave these jobs gradually to the DHMZ because I think it is a matter of strategic importance for the state over which the state should have full control. But as Minister, I was also aware of the fact that DHMZ was not then, and unfortunately, he is neither human, nor technologically equipped, or capacitated to take over these jobs. I am therefore afraid that these changes may jeopardise the national coverage of air quality monitoring, which includes measurement, data collection, quality assurance and verification of measurement and data, suitability and verification of the technical characteristics of the measuring equipment in accordance with the measurement reference methods and the processing and demonstration of the measurement results. This proposal does not provide for a scenario in the event that DHMZ fails to provide for a national coverage of air monitoring within the specified period, or in the event that the licences referred to in Article 61 are not issued by the prescribed legal deadline, i.e. by 1 January 2016. That is why I accepted the initiative of the representatives of the interested expert public and submitted an amendment that would allow a relatively painless transition period from today's state of affairs to the full takeover by DHMZ without jeopardising national coverage of air quality monitoring. On this occasion, I would like to stress that I cannot in any way consider myself a lobbyist of the interest of the interested professional public because, as a minister, I have been very often in conflict with this public, because I did not have any good opinion, and I do not have it today on the quality of business, especially the quality of the elaborates and the study of environmental protection of these companies and the interested professional public. But I think it's in the public interest to have back up the variant, or be prepared for this less optimistic scenario that I hope will not happen. In fact, the key interest of the state is that it has a secure national coverage of air quality monitoring, that coverage is in no way question. This problem is reminded of Article 10, which amends Article 28 of the applicable Air Protection Act. I am concerned because at the moment the DHMZ entrusted with the work of the reference laboratory does not meet any of the conditions for being a reference laboratory and there is not enough experience to guarantee the targeted quality of measurement. Therefore, I must agree with the concerns of the representatives of the interested expert public that these changes may result in a reduced availability of measurement results, i.e. by not achieving the target data quality, and thus by failing to meet the commitments made to the European Union. It also worries that these changes will necessarily lead to the need for new employment, while the state needs to reduce the public sector and cut budget costs. I therefore ask the Proposer to answer the question of how much it will be necessary to provide new public sector employees for the needs of this part of the law. And I remind you, the IMI-resistant Ministry of Science has clearly been shown not to plan new jobs for this purpose. And at the very end of the presentation, I would like to once again draw attention to the need for the serious implementation of all the regulations and objectives of the Directive, because new, even more stringent, and thus the financial weight of the commitments are constantly coming. Croatia simply cannot and must not allow itself to be on that train, and this train is currently travelling to 40% emission reductions by 2030, 60% CO2 emission reductions by 2040, and 80% emission reductions by 2050. I hope that we will not achieve these objectives through full economic collapse but through the implementation of a green new deal, i.e. a green new agreement that involves economic recovery through public investment in projects of efficiency, renewable energy, waste management systems and decarbonisation of the economy. The recognition of common interest and balance between social, economic and environmental issues suggests that green new deal is in fact a red green new agreement or the establishment of an eco-social market economy because the only realisation of such a social development model is the key to global sustainable development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75883	Thank you. Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75884	My dear colleague Holly at the very introduction of my presentation, which is why I answered the line, and you said that the strategy seems to me to be about protecting the environment incomprehensible to most citizens. If it's incomprehensible then it's bad, there aren't and most citizens are outsourcing incomprehensible. Who understands what it is? They never did. They scare people with concepts that are once known, and they're very simple. What does the master plan mean? This is what everyone thinks a miracle will happen now with a master plan because it is Mr. Ostojić walking around Croatia and speaking master plan, master plan. Everyone's asking what it is? The master plan? Master Chef, etc. I think we're just the simple old ones making it complicated, trying to be very smart, professional, etc. The most professional strategy is the one that is most understandable. Environmental protection must not be professional, incomprehensible to most citizens and that most citizens are drowsy when they hear the word environmental protection. It's something complicated. It's nothing complicated, everything can come to light. The mole isn't complicated either. Everyone says the mole is heavy, says those who don't read it. When they begin to read it, and in general, those who read it will read the Krleža. Whoever doesn't read he says it's hard. So, if the strategy is incomprehensible, it means it's bad, we didn't do our job well and nobody would respect it. How will he respect the strategy if he doesn't understand it? And I don't know what that means incomprehensible, I guess.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75885	Replication response, Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75886	Dear colleague, I was not talking about the incomprehensibility of the strategy, I was talking about the incomprehensibility, or the heavy matter that this law processes. Namely, the Air Protection Act is written in a rather difficult way and I would say to most citizens of the Republic of Croatia in an incomprehensible language and I am afraid that this matter is not quite possible to process in a completely simple language. It's not clear to people the way it works to trade in emission units. I know it's pretty complicated because people don't know how to catch carbon. I think that part of my debate was about the fact that this law is very complicated to understand, especially for people who don't deal with this problem but it's extremely important. I personally think it's quite quality written regardless of the rather heavy matter it processes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75887	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75888	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Holly, I have read your amendment and listening to your presentations now I can say that I share that concern that you have expressed in that amendment, which is that in case DHMZ does not result in the permit set out in the article... this law that then existing laboratories can continue to carry out this air quality measurement business in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think if you approach that way, which I agree with, I don't see any reason why such a situation doesn't remain permanent. Therefore, that the DHMZ and if it wishes to be allowed to obtain the licence referred to in Article 61, and that it is, at any time, ready to perform such works, or that part of these works is carried out on a part of the state network. I don't know if it's justifiable that at some point individual laboratories won't be interested and that then there'll be an empty space in the Republic of Croatia when they don't work, and on the other hand, the state body isn't ready to take over those works. So there may be some problems for monitoring air quality in the Republic of Croatia. But I don't see any reason why we shouldn't allow DHMZ to be a reference laboratory and to clearly continue with this department and in case this situation happens so that someone doesn't be more interested in such jobs then normally carry on DHMZ with these works.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75889	Replication response, Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75890	Dear colleague, we do not agree on the concept. I think it's normal for the state to have control and control over the means of managing this network and controlling these extremely important strategic data. And as far as I'm aware, most of the European states have therefore a national network in the state, both under state control and by state-run institutions. I think it's logical that our ambition should go in the direction of DHMZ being a reference laboratory and covering the affairs of the national network, however, because of the concern that DHMZ will not be able to adapt in this relatively short period, I think it is also necessary to enable this variant. But I think our goal must be to make DHMZ a reference point for the national network.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75891	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75892	Thank you very much. My colleague Holly, you have opened a very interesting topic that could be very elaborated on, about the crisis and then the attitude towards environmental protection and everything that we sometimes find in politics but also in ordinary life that is somehow on the margins. So I agree that, especially in the crisis, we should consistently implement everything that we have committed ourselves to, for which we have defined ourselves, so all the fundamental principles, or values in environmental protection, because it is ultimately and it is important to always point out, and in a crisis when many are willing to give up because it is always something more important because it is an investment in the future. What's that? Investment is actually in health, investment then indirectly and in the economy. And I agree that we should be consistent with all our commitments. And when we became a member of the EU, you said even more difficult obligations are coming. That's right. I think we all need to be aware that the time has passed for that policy is easy, so someone else is going to work it out somewhere else. No, everything we have to do today is up to us here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75893	The answer to the replica? No, I don't. Comrade Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75894	While I was an observer in the European Parliament on behalf of the Croatian Parliament at plenary sessions and on the Committees on Ecology, discussions were held on the establishment and balance of the production of the automotive industry. So, odds and engines in the automotive industry. It was also difficult for EU experts to find one balance in which these internal combustion engines would be economically accessible to customers because of their price and that they pollute the environment as little as possible. And that's where it was headed, so Europe wouldn't ruin its automotive industry because they were driving with such sophisticated engines where less exhaust gas was more expensive than those before the engine types. Therefore, there was a heated debate mainly between those countries that are large car manufacturers and whose economy is interested in producing and selling cars in relation to countries that do not have a developed automotive industry. Here in today's debate we are most discussing, the most we are talking about is measuring air pollution, who's going to be in charge of measuring air pollution. Will it be or can I measure it and here's to say private reference laboratories or is it responsible for all the state hydrometerological institutions that they like to say here DHMZ and for reading the results of the Institute for Medical Research and Medicine – the IMI that according to here and the speeches of other colleagues in the Assembly today are not professionally teamed up and question about the equipment of the laboratory etc. for this job. And according to their own recognition and the Institute for Medical Research and the recognition of the State Hydrometeorological Institute, it is clear that it will be necessary to employ additional people in these services. We heard from Minister Jovanovic and we know there is no new employment in IMI which falls under the Ministry of Higher Education, Higher Education, etc. So how do we do that, what happens to the Institute of Medical Research if he can't hire another 5-10 people. I don't know. When there is already an increase in the amount of harmful gases or particles, corruption, whatever you want in the air then the Croatian State, the State Hydrometeorological Institute, the Environment Protection Agency, the Ministry must make an action plan and write nicely in Article 12 if, in a given zone or agglomeration, the levels of polluting substances in the air exceed any limit value or target value, in any of these cases, an action plan for improving air quality, for that zone or agglomeration, etc. So I ask when it's been like that and it wasn't different in the former law either. what the state of Croatia has done and what is the action plan for Slavonski Brod and the situation in Slavonski Brod, or as is the case in France, in Paris we will determine a couple-nepar although traffic is not the main cause of pollution in Slavonski Brod, or as in Beijing we will wear surgical masks or we will have to apply these masks that these gas masks used in some wars at the time of possible use of chemical weapons. What's left of us in Slavonski Brod? Whether it's an action plan, buying masks, or there's something else. This time it seems to me that it is only diplomatic activity and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Environmental Protection and all others according to this case in Slavonski Brod. It's coal as an energy source for some future thermoelectric power plants. It's about Plomin C and Ploče's thermopower plant. Many of these were said by residents of the area and environmental associations living there. It is clear that the economy is the cornerstone of the development of an end but the economy that will be in place on one side to ruin the other part of the economy, tourism, the length of Neretva, etc., so if we actually benefit from one piece and the damage from the other, it would be worth undermining the strategy provided for by 2070, so we still have 56 years to implement that strategy. I think that given the progress of the global, technological and carbon thermal power plants in any case, except that it is built in dwellings at Doboj thermal power plants on coal or already working or in Ugljevik, in northern Bosnia or more towards the Tuzlan region, according to Brcko Gunja, etc., other thermal power plants in Europe or in the EU are not being built. Why is it forging in Croatia? That's another thing. That's another question. I think it's true, the water is deep, but it's something else when we find out. Mostly the HDSSB Club and I will personally be abstentions in voting for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75895	Ivan Simunović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75896	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Grubisic, and the proposal for this law is mainly about harmonising with legislation, with the EU leading the world's fight against pollution and climate change, and this is a very important topic for us. I believe that European institutions know what they are doing and that the measures are restrictions that are proposed are effective in achieving the objectives for which they are designed. When we talk about air protection in Croatia, it is impossible not to mention the case of refinery in Bosnia and Herzegovina, specifically as regards your case where you live in Slavonski Brod from which pollution is spreading towards Croatia and we are almost helpless here. We can have the most modern and on paper best engaged laws on this subject but we can't apply. In Croatia, inability or bypassing in the application of laws is especially by the large ones who have the means to pass an uncircumcised common case. I hope in this case it won't be with this law. With this law, however, we cannot impose on our neighbours, and I therefore hope that the agreement that was allegedly reached with the owners of the refinery in Brod, which should finally reduce the emissions of harmful gases and pollution from that refinery, will regulate the fruit and send a cornerstone to address the problem of projects in neighbouring countries that have an adverse impact on the environment of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75897	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75898	Thank you very much, colleague Simunović. I am also convinced, as you are, that Europe does not even force coal power plants, namely it remains... those declared Directives 20, 20, 20 or 20, 20, 20 by 2020. That's why we're increasing the first 20 air pollutions. So, it's not a matter of Europe, it has nothing to do with European policy, I even think it is contrary to European policy. As far as quality is concerned, as far as Slavonski Brod is concerned, we have very often increased values that are instantaneous, present, are not continuous, increasing the amount of benzene, sulfur dioxide and other harmful substances in the air, but are increased pop-up and are said from the ministry that when the boat, the town of Brod complains about it, which is only at the moment, it is not permanent. But what is permanent is the organoleptic feature of breathing, that you have a constant sense of smell in Slavonski Brod by the refinery, it is the reduced quality of life in Slavonski Brod. I'm not talking about these significant and continuous increases in value, either benzene, or sulfur dioxide and other substances in the ship, but rather the problem of quality of life in Slavonski Brod.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75899	Comrade Sonja König, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75900	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of our Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In a public debate in the Air Protection Act, many stakeholders have included their remarks and suggestions, and so is the city of Zagreb, which is certainly good. The city of Zagreb intervened in an existing provision of legislation that envisions the development of action plans to improve air quality for a particular administrative area. For its administrative area, the city of Zagreb already has the experience of adopting an action plan, i.e. the adoption of a sanitary programme to reduce PM10 of floating particles. Because of the high public health value of the floating particle PM10, they are one of the most important indicators of air pollution. They are mainly made in road transport and industry, they mentioned and talked a lot about it by colleagues Grubisic and colleagues Djurovic in their replica today. These PM particles are less than 10 micrograms dangerous for human health since they penetrate and persist in airways causing inflammation and inflammatory changes and reduced resistance to various allergies and infections. According to World Health Organization research, they increase cardiovascular disease and cause many health problems especially in chronic, pulmonary, and cardiac diseases. It is true that the renaissance programme for the reduction of PM10 floating particles in the western part of Zagreb managed to reduce the degree of pollution from third to second category of pollution, and the results of measuring measurement stations in the Zagreb area, especially those in the centre of Zagreb, have not been encouraging lately. On the contrary, they are very concerned. Namely, the allowed concentration of floating PM10 particles in the air is 50 micrograms per meter cubicly, while the number in Zagreb has already been exceeded 12 times in the first two and a half months of this year, and according to all regulations, plans and regulations, this excess must not be exceeded more than 35 times during the entire calendar year, which means that for the polluting substance, or floating particles PM10, we can expect excessive air pollution in Zagreb. If we know that the increase of these floating particles is affected by traffic, that is, its increase is rightfully concerned by the announcements that we can hear from the Zagreb City Administration about building new garages in the very center of Zagreb. Because at this point, not counting the street parking spaces, in the garages located in the city center, they can park and park 4116 cars, and according to estimates, up to 5 cars arrive in a garage, so the garages in the center of Zagreb attract more than 20,000 cars per day. And it has been proven that in Zagreb, the most important, significant factor in air pollution is road traffic. The case is also in other major cities, we see here these days as in Paris, mentioned by fellow Grubisic, struggling with air pollution by limiting the use of personal cars. World trends, as well as experts, suggest that in order to reduce the flow of vehicles into the central part of the city, reducing air pollution is recommended to build underground garages on the edges of the city, not in the centre itself. So, exactly the opposite of what seems to be in our city, which seems to be in our capital city. Building new parking garages in the centre of Zagreb, therefore does not contribute to the cleanness of air and health of our citizens, I just want to warn you, and I accept the Air Protection Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75901	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75902	Dear colleagues of König, you have warned of one of the biggest problems in the city of Zagreb, in one of the biggest considerations in the concept of the transport of the city of Zagreb. Exactly, I agree with you, but that's exactly what the current city, i.e. The former city administration is doing what you said, trying to bring as many cars into the city's centre as possible by means of its traffic strategy. There have been proposals and serious proposals and elaborated proposals that on the periphery like you said not only to build garages, even unnecessary periphery to build large parking spaces such as large European cities have and to commit to parking cars in these parking areas and to enter the city by public traffic and thus to stimulate those who do so, and to destimulate those who come into the city or penalize, however, for the increasingly unsatisfactory air in the city of Zagreb is precisely the cause of one of the major causes of traffic as you stated in your debate, allergy is increasingly and Zagreb is more and when talking about air and living conditions or the environment are living increasingly unhealthy, but it seems that no one in the city is concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75903	Would you like to answer? The answer to the replica of Sonja König.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75904	Thank you very much. My colleague Vukšić and I agree for the second time about the public transport of the city of Zagreb, obviously which, if well managed at the moment, is not the case that brings a number of advantages and environmental ones, and we said the other day saves time and enables new people to meet in public transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75905	Final word on behalf of the promoter, Deputy Minister of Croatian Dokoza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75906	Thank you very much. I'd first look around, a lot of questions were about implementation. We know it's our exercise, we have good laws, and when it comes to implementation, there's no implementation. Changes in inspection supervision, more detailed provisions are prescribed, responsibility has been strengthened in the implementation itself for state institutions, such as DHMZ and IMI. For the first time in this law, Article 148 determines the fine of up to 300 thousand kunas for DHMZ and IMI if, despite the means provided, they do not implement the measurement programme in the national network. The rear stations built through the PHARE project contain lower quality equipment, which required additional efforts by DHMZ experts to perform repeated measurements, calibration of all devices. These stations have been released in the trial work in 2012, and since 2013, raw data has been available on the Ministry's website. However, for the reasons that DHMZ does not have the right to carry out monitoring of air or validation of data, and because of budget cuts, there was insufficient resources and no time to select laboratories through public competition. Only this law gives the right to allow DHMZ to obtain a permit to carry out air quality monitoring tasks and this law provides the necessary means for that implementation. As for the issues of new employment for DHMZ and IMI respected MP Holly, a redistribution of technical staff in IMI has been planned. A working group of the DHMZ of the AZO, the Fund and the Ministry of Environmental Protection of Nature has also been established to monitor, on a two-day basis, the implementation of the plan for the period until the end of the year. Activities in Slavonski Brod, with the aim of continuing monitoring the air quality status and addressing the problem of pollution, the ministry takes on a number of activities both at political and professional level. I must say that there has been co-operation with both the mayor and that continued communication is taking place precisely in an disproportionate manner between the Ministry and Slavonski Brod. A particular emphasis in seeking a permanent solution will be given on the fact, most of you today have stated that the Republic of Croatia is an EU member and will also join the issue at European institutions level, also greater involvement of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. At the political level, better co-operation between the Republic of Croatia and BiH in the field of environmental protection will be encouraged, with the close conclusion of a prepared agreement between the Bosnian-Herzegovina side and Croatia. At the professional level, the ministry will continue to seek a solution to further accelerate the modernisation of the refinery through direct contacts with the largest representatives of the Russian company. This applies in particular to parts of the plant which are possible sources of air pollution, primarily sulphur emissions, as the most pronounced form of a negative impact on air quality. What is crucial and what is asked today is the question of the report. The Ministry is preparing a full report on the air in Slavonski Brod to be presented on the Committee on Environmental Protection. It is also a similar situation in Sisak where we had a special session of the recent parliamentary committee on the dynamics of work on modernization of the Sisak Refinery. Based on the request of the Environment Protection Committee of the Croatian Parliament, the Ministry is preparing further measures and further measures have been agreed and the dynamics of the meeting of the Committee have been strengthened. Excessive polluted air in the city of Sisak or other categories compared to the sulfur, floating particles and benzenopyrene. The reconstruction of the open block don system will resolve the large part of the occurrence of unfavourable smells and a further reduction in the number of permitted daily hourly levels of sulphur concentration is expected. This is where we insisted on the Ministry of Economy to continue the pressure to make this point real within the specified time limit. Transport, I am pleased that this topic is open and the transport promotion measures are something that we have been announcing for a long time and they are ready, and it is precisely the measures that encourage green technologies in transport. We know that traffic accounts for 25% of total emissions, and 75% of it is road traffic. So Europe has already set out towards the adoption of a directive, the introduction of alternative fuels, to encourage the purchase of green vehicles. The gasification of the public transport of the city of Rijeka has recently been carried out with the support of the Energy Efficiency Fund where other than the economic savings that are very high because of the work of the CNG... natural gas, it's also about large savings, means reducing emissions in transport. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it will continue in other counties and cities in that direction. Here I hope I've managed to cover the issues, thank you very much for this discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75907	Thank you. Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75908	I don't doubt your good intentions and the good intentions of this law. But I planned in the morning, I had a great intention to do some work, in the morning I was strong for it, now I doubt it, in the evening I probably won't be able to plan everything. You said there were 300 thousand kuna fines, and now you assume that when you give someone a sentence, they have the right to complain, sue, etc. You know well that Croatian courts have, disputes with us in Croatia last three times longer. While we banish the macro to the end that the one who is 300,000 kuna is obliged to pay, while he pays for it during that time half of Zagreb has been poisoned. We're talking about the efficiency of the state, the efficiency of the system, not this segment of yours. That's why I say we've had enough. We simply don't function as a system. We're able to bend the mockery and the best law, just turn everything upside down. Which means being sued in court for 10 years. We need action. So it's not your fault, it's not the ministry's fault and often whatever the public thinks, it's not even the MPs who, in good faith, raise their hands for some law, and in the end, it doesn't bring the law back to life in real, real life. And we have another dead letter on paper that I often talk about, I warn you, but unfortunately so long as the state doesn't function. And the most important segment we do not have the courage to discuss, which is the judiciary, it is the foundation of society, the foundation of democracy, it is far worse than Croatian politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75909	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75910	Thank you very much. Mr. Deputy Minister, you spoke of all the measures you take in your ministry and other ministries regarding this air pollution in Slavonski Brod, I think, and your cooperation with the mayor but time is running. In three months we will be in the European Union for a year, the 1.7 is a year, here in three months. Nothing was done. In vain of your cooperation with the mayor, I trust you to want, of course it would be crazy to believe that you want a Slavonic ship I don't know how to destroy or ignore but it's all too slow. It's all too slow. And your cooperation with the mayor doesn't bring fruit. There's no change of any kind. Secondly, you also talked about cars as pollutants and that they pollute at 25% of the air. You see, the second problem in Slavonski Brod is not yours but the Ministry of Transport is the state road 423 in Slavonski Brod with a mustache in Osijek Street on which it stands daily with lit motors 20 thousand cars for 60 trains passing the pan through the European corridor 10, Slavonski Brod-Vinkovci-Zagreb. So, 20 thousand cars stand for a few minutes on the mustache in Slavonski Brod, that's the second moment of air pollution in Slavonski Brod. And we can't solve that problem either. Well, now a man suspects he really doesn't have a good will for Slavonski Brod. I mean, I have to doubt it. It's just amazing. It's all expensive.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75911	I am concluding the debate on the bill. We will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75912	We are now going to decide on the points of the agenda that we have concluded the debate. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Air Protection Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. 639. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments have been made. We have a special plate. I'd like a representative, Deputy Minister of Environment and Nature, of the esteemed Croatian Dokoz to be seen. Amendment number one, Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75913	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Amendment number one is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75914	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number two of the Honored Representatives of Mirala Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75915	It's unacceptable. It is not accepted that Article 99(1) of the Law has just been laid down by the State Hydrometeorological Institute to ensure the performance of operations, air quality monitoring referred to in Article 28(2). The Law shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union in the Official Journal of the European Union and in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. Reference laboratories shall continue to carry out air quality monitoring operations, which shall ensure the continuity of the cases in question during the transitional period.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75916	Amendment bearer, respected representative of Mirela Holly, advocating.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75917	Well, I am sorry that the government does not accept this amendment or if it has been unambiguously disputed that it has not gone with the proposal of its amendment on this subject because we are now in a rather risky situation that the State Hydrometeorological Institute may not be able to fulfil these obligations now imposed on it and thus will be brought into a rather awkward situation by the general national state network, measuring air quality, which is very risky and, ultimately, we can have some penals from the EU. I think this was a backup variant that doesn't mean that it shouldn't be taken over by the State Hydrometeorological Institute but in case it doesn't work out within that time limit that we still have some kind of control variant. I'm sorry he didn't, and I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75918	Thank you very much. I'd like to make a statement on the amendment of the honourable representative of Mirala Holly, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 3 of the HDZ Representatives Club, Article 10, deputy deputy minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75919	It's unacceptable. Amendments of the HDZ Club to Article 10 amending Article 28 shall not be accepted The Air Protection Act, given that the laws are in force on the proposed amendments, is amended in Article 28 of the existing law in order to improve the effective implementation of air quality monitoring in the national network. Ensuring data quality objectives, a fundamental requirement of EU acts, and rationalising or reducing the costs of the work of the state network. Professional institutions shall be established to carry out, for the purposes of the ministry, the tasks of national reference laboratories whose work will be financed from the State Budget and the funds of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. In view of the fact that air quality data on the territory of the State are of national interest to the appointment of reference laboratories, the work of the state network will not depend on competition, thus ensuring the continuity of the work of the state network. Targeted data quality, timely public reporting and compliance with the country's obligations under EU acts.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75920	On behalf of the applicant, the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75921	Thank you, Mr. President. So I also warned during the debate on amendments and additions to the Air Protection Act that the government did not give valid arguments in its reasoning. Why it changes the established model, which is in force under the applicable Air Protection Act, because the very implementation of the existing model and the existing law has proved to be effective and effective, so I think it is at least asking for funding from the state budget, or much less than it will require the establishment of an air quality monitoring model in the manner provided for by this law. So we expected that the government would really explain what this is and because the existing model is in line with the European Directive and for us at the HDZ Club, the government has shown itself extremely effective, therefore the fact that during the past period of validity of the existing law in Croatia, 11 trials and 2 reference laboratories that spent funds and time and entered that model have been accredited, we interrupt, and have not properly explained the arguments. That's why I'm looking for him personally.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75922	I would like to make a statement about the amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to Amendment 4 of the Legislative Committee. Your Honor, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75923	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75924	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 5 of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75925	It's unacceptable. Amendments to Articles 16 and 20 shall also not be accepted as these articles allow DHMZ to be granted in the course of the authorisation provided for in Article 61 of this Act without the application of an excerpt from the Register of the Trade Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75926	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Honored Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75927	Thank you, Mr. President. So this amendment was on the trail of the realization of that first amendment that I was just explaining. This is the case, as my colleague Mirela said, which is that it is questionable whether DHMZ will be able to meet the obligations set before him during the planned transitional period. That there is a valid solution in the existing law, no one has prevented the DHMZ from carrying out, in the frameworks and conditions of the applicable law, the outcomes itself and is accredited as a reference laboratory in the Republic of Croatia and then those tasks which this law now imposes on it and which are subject to the procedure in force on the market under the applicable law by laboratories which have met the conditions laid down by law. Therefore, it seems to me that a public private partnership that has been established by the existing law, which is... according to us at the club and is more efficient and cheaper, is also creating from Croatia an international competitive state and on the market that is spoken of, I believe that it is not justified and that it should then be kept in this way a model that is more quality for us. Thank you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75928	Please state the amendment number five of the HDZ Representatives Clubs that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 6, same club of representatives in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75929	It's unacceptable. Amendments to Articles 16 and 20 shall also not be accepted as these articles allow DHMZ to be granted in the course of the authorisation provided for in Article 61 of this Act without the application of an excerpt of the Trade Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75930	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Honored Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75931	Thank you, Mr. President. It's a matter of two concepts, Mr. Deputy. You believe that from the point of view of the quality of air quality monitoring in the Republic of Croatia, a better model in which the state body only prescribes the conditions and performs all those measurements necessary to examine the air quality in the Republic of Croatia. We believe that the existing model of almost public private partnership being carried out on the market from the point of view of the state is better, more effective, in this respect the difference, in that concept. This existing model for us was high quality, you didn't deny it with anything, so it's unacceptable for us at the HDZ club. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75932	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment number 6 of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the right majority of votes. Amendment number 7 of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75933	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75934	It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 8 of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75935	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75936	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number nine of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75937	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75938	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. And amendment number 10 of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75939	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75940	Thank you very much. Amendment number 11 of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75941	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75942	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 12 of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75943	It's unacceptable. The amendments to Articles 93, 99 and 100 shall not be accepted as they relate to the amendment in accordance with Article 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75944	Thank you. On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, honourable representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75945	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, yes, and this amendment is in the function of implementing a fundamental position that I have already presented on a few occasions. The open question arises as to why the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been accredited to 11 exam laboratories and 2 reference laboratories that have fulfilled all legal obligations as I just said, which have invested significant resources and time to meet the legal obligations, now 2 years after the law was implemented, the Government simply gives up that model, closes the doors to those laboratories and decides on a new model that is not sufficiently reasoned for us. This amendment was therefore on track, so I would say and demand that the Government introduce us to the details, which were the reasons when the existing law was, as I have already said, fully in line with the European Directive. I demand the vote, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75946	Please state the amendment number 12 of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to Amendment 13. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75947	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75948	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 14 of the same Board of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75949	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75950	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment number 15 of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75951	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75952	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. And amendment number 16 of the same Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75953	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75954	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. I'm asking you to plead by raising your hand. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes 83 for, 5 votes against and 9 abstentions have been adopted by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Air Protection in the text, as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75955	We move on to: - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Framework Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Development Bank of the Council of the European Union regarding the regional housing programme, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 638; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you received the proposal. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite both first and second readings and may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was submitted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received their reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by the head of the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Management of Mrs Mirela Stanic-Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75956	I thank the esteemed Madam Vice President, the esteemed MPs and the MPs. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Framework Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank on a Regional Programme of Housing Management with the Final Proposal for a Law. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this Act on Confirmation of the Framework Agreement is set out in Article 140(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. A regional programme of housing on permanent solutions for refugees internally displaced persons, a joint initiative by the Republic of Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and the Republic of Serbia based on a joint declaration signed by the foreign ministers of partner countries in Belgrade in 2011. The regional housing programme consists of four national housing programmes to be implemented in these countries. The programme aims to provide permanent housing solutions for 27 000 families over a five-year period and the funds needed for its implementation are 584m euros. The Programme is managed by the Council of Europe Development Bank, which established a Regional Programme Fund through which donor funding will be allocated to partner countries for projects under national programmes. Within the framework of the programme in the Republic of Croatia, 3541 families are scheduled to be taken care of, and to this end, the necessary funds amounting to EUR 119.7 million with a planned share of the Republic of Croatia in the entire programme of 25%. At its meeting on 22 November 2013, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided to initiate a procedure for the conclusion of a framework agreement, signed in Paris on 3 December 2013 by the Governor of the Bank of Mr Rolf Wenzel and Mr Jakša Puljiz, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and European Union Funds as the National Coordinator of the Programme. The framework agreement itself contains in addition a description of the national housing programme, general conditions, review of the verification criteria of the implementation structure, a template for the standard grant agreement, a proposal for a standard agreement on the granting of technical assistance and the settlement of disputes relating to the grant of grants. The Framework Agreement regulates the legal framework for the use of funding from the Regional Housing Programme Fund and also regulates the legal framework for the cooperation of the Republic of Croatia and the Development Bank of the Council of Europe. Furthermore, the law lays down the way in which the financial resources necessary for the implementation of the agreement, i.e. the implementation of the law, and determines the central authority responsible for the implementation of the law. Finally, the law also lays down a way to publish data on the entry into force of the Framework Agreement and the date of entry into force of the law. The implementation of the law requires the provision of additional financial resources in the state budget. Only enforcement will be carried out in accordance with the withdrawal of the donor war, according to the approval of the same by the donor assembly. The co-financing funds will be provided by the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Management. Under the general conditions of the Framework Agreement, the indicative time period of its implementation is until 30 June 2018. Since the Republic of Croatia has become a member of the European Union and has become a provider of development aid from the recipient country since the start of negotiations, we are currently at the disposal of donations of 10.9m euros. The State Office for Reconstruction and Housing has proposed four sub-projects for co-financing and, in fact, their approval has absorbed all currently available funds under this Framework Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75957	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75958	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. As far as I know in the previous debate, it was said that applications could be applied until 1 May in connection with the construction of these apartments, or that remains the fact that by 1 May or according to this legislative proposal, applications can continue to be submitted until 1 May of this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75959	Would you like to answer that? Mrs Mirela Stanic Popovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75960	For application for this programme for the category of former tenant rights holders outside the PPDS, the deadline was open and lasted until 31 August 2013. This programme also includes other PPDS users. They are subject to the PPDS Act and the deadline actually expires during which day, 31 March of this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75961	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. But now we're going to give a break because the boards are at the stop by 3:00, and then the first one will be the SDP club and counterpart Melita Mulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75962	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work. It's on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, Melita Mulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75963	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear representatives, Deputy Representatives, colleagues and colleagues. Since it is an international contract signed on behalf of the Republic of Croatia in December of last year by the National Coordinator for the Housing Management Programme, the SDP Club will support the proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Framework Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank in connection with the regional housing programme and in order to become part of the internal legal order and so that we can use grants for the financing and implementation of the National Housing Programme. We have already heard from the representative that it is a regional programme which is an integral part of the Sarajevo process for refugees and displaced persons, which aims to help address the situation of long-term displaced refugees and displaced persons. This regional programme should provide 74 000 people or 27 000 households, with an estimated cost of around 584m euros over a five-year period. A donor conference was held in Sarajevo in April 2012 at which the European Commission, representing the EU, the US Government, Germany, Italy, the Kingdom of Norway, the Swiss Federation, the Kingdom of Denmark, Turkey, Luxembourg, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Romania, Hungary, Slovakia and former UN High Commissioner for Refugees Mrs Sadako Agata, committed to contributing to a regional housing programme totalling 261m euros. More than that was collected at the time in Sarajevo. Under this programme in the Republic of Croatia 3541 families are scheduled for housing, i.e. 829 persons who are located in or are located in the Centres of Organized Accommodation. It is about persons who are categorized as endangered refugees, former housing rights holders, endangered returnees or displaced persons. The planned and needed funds are 119.7m euros, of which the national contribution would be 25% and 29m euros, respectively, and projects should be implemented by the end of June 2018. The RH, therefore, is currently available at a cost of 10.9m euros. It is clear that it is not even about a dozen necessary funds, and we are aware that as a Member State of the EU we have become from a recipient country a provider of international proportionate assistance, but I would nevertheless take this opportunity to thank donors for participating in the programme because it is also a process still under way. When it comes to our National Housing Programme, it is planned to implement 4 projects, so it is the construction of a multi-state building in Korenica with 29 apartments for former tenants, the construction of 2 residential buildings in Knin with 20 apartments, the reconstruction of the House for the Elderly and Powerless in Clay, and the purchase of apartments for 101 users. The choice of users has been made in cooperation with UNHCR, and when it comes to family care in Korenica, people of older age, pensioners, people with low monthly incomes waiting for their home for 7 or more years. In Knin, it is also about persons of older age, pensioners, unemployed and social assistance users from whom a certain portion of them lived in bungalows in Golubic or in the Strmica Acceptable Centre. I also consider the project of reconstruction of the House for the Elderly and Powerless in Glina because, given the fact that the pro-connaissance refugee settlements are in the process of closing, and in view of the health structure of the users of these settlements, it is necessary to find a solution for those who are unable to meet their personal needs and require specific treatment and constant supervision. When it comes to the fourth project, i.e. buying apartments for 101 users, I will remind you that only when it comes to former tenants, from the beginning of the implementation of housing in 2001 to October last year that a total of 17,000 779 housing claims were received in and outside the area of special state care. Since the third deadline for submission of applications for housing outside the area of special state care expired on the last day of August of last year, the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing has registered a total of 1207 new applications. What does that really mean? That actually means that over 4200 requests are in yet different degrees of processing. I would say that every fate is individual and every torment is individually difficult, especially when you don't have a home, regardless of your status, whether someone is a refugee, an exile or an internally displaced person. However, I will also take this opportunity to point out that the process of adopting the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe resolution, which calls on Member States, is also directly referred to the Republic of Croatia to ensure the availability of its own home to those in collective accommodation centres. Although I am aware that losing refugee status will open a whole series of problems after 15 or 20 years of such status and improvised life, the right to adequate accommodation is one of the fundamental human rights. When we talk about this problem, of course, that apart from what we're talking about human fates, we're always talking about financial resources that cost the Republic of Croatia's budget and I'm actually going to take advantage of this opportunity, noting that, by virtue of the Law on the Reconstruction of the Republic of Croatia, it has so far spent more than 2 billion and 200 million euros in budgetary resources. We also have before us a solution to the applications submitted by former tenants as well as a person, or a family from collective centres, for which we will need more than 120m euros. Taking into account the necessary financial resources and awareness that it is important to ensure that everyone in the status of exiles and refugees has the right and freedom to choose where they want to live and that it is important to ensure the right to dignity and accommodation of this framework agreement with the Development Bank of the Council of Europe that we also see as one of the steps in achieving this objective. Therefore, the SDP club will support the adoption of proposals from this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75964	Thank you, too. On behalf of the SDSS club Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75965	I would like to thank the vice president of the Croatian Parliament, the head of the State Office with an associate. I'll tell the SDSS's position on this law. The law on the validation of the Framework Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Development Bank of the Council of Europe relating to the Regional Housing Management Programme. We can analyze this matter in a way that we can nom technically analyse this agreement and realize that it is a very well-produced agreement. As much as we can have and get some experience of what it looks like when certain rules of the game are put in place through one agreement and that is probably how it is done in the entities of the European Union. We see that everything is precisely defined, to see each other's obligations, to see the relations of subordination, to see the monitoring of projects, to control the projects, and all that together should be. And with this population, this can be a new experience today. However, when talking about housing there should be then... Essentially and discuss the essence, the metricity of the problem, the very fact of housing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have here through this Agreement the possibility that certain grants, pooled funds, so to speak in the region through the Bank's institution, Development Banks are placed in the Republic of Croatia in order to finally end this agony of a particular category of Croatian citizens called housing. Is it going to be as it is essentially and predicted, whether or not it will be defacto, and to realize it remains to be seen, remains to be seen which, by what dynamic means these funds will be withdrawn, or how much we will be willing to do through the presentation of our projects and all the technique that monitors these projects to realize this sum, targeted sum that we have sought and this is about 119 million euros. Croatia is one of four partner countries in the joint programme, along with Bosnia, Herzegovina, Serbia-Montenegro. And here it's already said, the predecessor said, but it's a very large number of human fates, namely, it's about solving 27 thousand displaced families, which would mean somewhere around 74 thousand people, human fates. I repeat again. Why do I say that? Because we often place this topic on the table and we often point out that this problem cannot be viewed statistically, cannot be viewed as a burden on the budget, it cannot be seen as even as some kind of political platform for solving but should first be viewed as one social category, or rather as a humanitarian category, it is 70,000 people who still do not know where they will live permanently, where they will be permanently inhabited. It is evident from this point of view that the basic intensities of this agreement are to be shared, to implement the joint efforts of partner countries, countries in the environment under the auspices of the International Community to confirm one commitment of these countries to finally bring an end, to bring an end to emigration in the region. The programme is based on a joint declaration signed by foreign ministers, partner states in Belgrade in 2011 means it has international weight and verification. The programme consists of four national housing programmes and Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia as said, Serbia-Montenegro and the programme were supported by the European Union, the US government, UNHCR and the OSCE. Therefore, all relevant international factors that have been dealing with this problem for many years are supporting this programme. It has been established and finally established the Regional Housing Programme managed by the Council of the European Union Development Bank, through which certain donor funds will be allocated to countries for projects under their national programmes. So a certain international framework is set up, the institutes are set up, we need as one basic tool to realize all of this, and we need to start to realize it. It is also important to say that permanent housing solutions, therefore, would be ensured for resolution, the permanent resolution of housing problems would be ensured in the five-year period from 2013 to 2017, a total of around 583m euros. According to information, about 50% of these funds have been collected effectively so far. Most of the 234m euros were donated by the European Union and the US government donated about 10 million and, of course, expressed its intention to continue to allocate these funds for the needs of the programme. It has already been said but it is not bad to remind who would take care of these projects, with these money, it is 14,000 people in BiH, it is in Montenegro somewhere around 1100 refugee families, it is 45,000 people in Serbia and in Croatia it is about 8529 people. These are the persons directly concerned by the funds of this Framework Agreement. During the preparation of the programme, the Republic of Croatia planned to provide permanent housing solutions for 3500 families, which would mean around 8500 people in Croatia would be resolved in this way and this was envisaged as 119m euros were already said. However, what we need to know is that it is de facto possible so far to reach some 11m euros for the implementation of these programmes and this is mainly about four programmes already mentioned. Apartment facilities in Korenica 29 apartments, Knin 40, Dom for older people in Glina and purchase 101 apartments on and outside the PPDS for former tenants. Therefore, it is only 10% of the resources we expect to implement in this target period. Whether we realize them will probably depend on how ready we are and how much we can prepare project documentation as a basis. This is the expected money, the target size, but in order to realise this, a series of technical advances must be done so that this money can be obtained as a non-refundable money in the Republic of Croatia. So if we get only 10 million, and 10 million euros now and buy 101 apartments as a regional component, and at the same time we ran the budget, and we realized that in the budget we provided all 10-11 million kuna for the purchase of 20 apartments, and as a national component of housing care, then we see that this year, under the most ideal conditions, we will make purchases of only 100 and some housing units, together with that regional component. And that's not even 50% of what we should be providing, buying apartments because we have over 300 positive requirements and we've been pointing to that in the budget itself. So this is a welcome thing, but I think the whole thing's still going down with its slower course. What I'd like to say here is, for the first time now, we have a chance to represent the state housing office with people who are at the helm. They've just started working, and it's clear they have some problems, which is perfectly normal. It's clear they've had human resources, and I'd particularly like to apostrophe two kinds of problems. I'd especially like to apostrophe the financial problems. When we work at the State Office, let's not forget that in our first budget, we removed 85 million kuna from the position of that state office. In the second rebalancing we removed another 33 million kuna and then we expect the state office to work at full capacity, i.e. that the housing office is working at full capacity and that it ends the job or ends everything that has not been completed so far in this period. Here I have to say that the famous chapter 23 when we were giving consent, when we were giving some kind of principle agreement to say that, yes, the chapter 23-Justice and human rights were fulfilled, then we were also guided by the thought that, of course, no one should be the one to stop Croatia from entering the European Union, and at least it should be our national minority. But we also believed that there would be enough sensitivity in society to get these jobs done as soon as possible, to allow people to return to their homes, to get the electricity back, to restore people to their homes. Of course that didn't happen. We see that in this whole thing we have even one regression of resources. We can also interpret it as a regression of the political will to end this process. Because why would I say that? The users of this entire framework agreement project should continue to be some 42 families located in centres of collective accommodation, 307 families who are refugees, 2747 households defined as vulnerable returnees without a long-term solution for accommodation, 245 households in the category of displaced persons, etc., etc. So this isn't about mathematical numbers, it's about repeating it again, about very difficult human fates that don't exactly see some kind of solution to their problem anytime soon, and we don't see it either. I will also say here that in the functioning of a state office which is a key factor and for the implementation of this regional programme in the Republic of Croatia is the State Office for Housing, so there is a certain normative inequality that we also need to work on, and soon we need to make sure that this thing doesn't happen so that state administrations in the counties can handle different interpretations of certain living situations, and that certain regulations are applied differently. We think there is also a lack of government regulations here and additional instructions and additional instructions to ensure that this matter is implemented in the offices of the state administration by county. Let's not put people in a position where users who are now putting together new housing priorities in this year are forced to bring fresh documents, fresh confirmations not older than 6 months, let's not get those people old, let's not those people whose 100 kuna means a lot to make them go through courts, bring convictions, go through the IRS, etc. We've got a centralized, networked electronic system so why don't the public administration offices do it on official duty. Why are we harassing these people, and so again, if they come back to the situation that next year they're filling their demands because they won't be realised this year? So we've unnecessarily short-listed the whole deal. We pointed to that fact when it came to the debate under the law, and we said that there would be a problem on the ground in practice. In addition, it can be established formally that such legal disagreement is also in conflict with a higher legal act, which is the act and the law on administrative proceedings. He needs a little study, so we can see that we can't make people prove something like this that they once proved. And one more thing I'd say here in the end, which is a little bit of talk, which is things people care about, that torture people, and that's the ransom prices of apartments. The sale of apartments is in the area of special state care, as opinions are awaited for individual solutions, opinions are long awaited both DUDI and DORH by county. Outside the PPDS, an extremely small number of apartments were purchased. I'm not going to be wrong now to say that it's two, five or ten apartments, a small number of apartments because it's been expected, a long-awaited decision by the government that's going to take care of the whole thing. Therefore, in the end, we will support this law. We think this is a good way to compensate those donor funds for a huge deficit, a huge deficit of activities that we as a society should have done by now. But I also think we need to prepare. to withdraw, technically prepare to withdraw these serious funds. [[Invader Batinić: Time colleagues.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75966	Thank you. We have two replicas. Branko Box, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75967	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You mentioned last year's rebalancing and confiscation of funds, or you said that this was the reason for the failure of the office that formed in May. Let us assume that this is the case, but let us also promote the period from the end of 2011 to the establishment of the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care and see how many solutions have been issued through the former Ministry of Regional Development by April 2013. You know how much? 181 solution. If you have 10,000 requests for a simple mathematical operation, share it with 181 issued solution and know what number you get, or how many years will it only take to issue a solution? 83 years. So for 83 years, it's only gonna take solutions to be issued, and we're not talking about permanent housing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75968	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75969	I'd like to thank my colleague Boxtie. You've now given some information that I haven't calculated. You're probably right about that. It's just saying something, saying that we should have formed this housing office before, that we should have defined it the way it's done before. But then we have to provide him with all the necessary elements and that's the money, that's the means to work, the means to do what that office needs to do. That even before 2011, we had done more statistics than concrete things, and the fact that when we spoke in the context of Chapter XXIII. So we said that, yes, the chapter was closed. This story is over, because we've issued a thousand 200 solutions. We've issued a thousand 200 solutions, but we haven't provided so many housing units. And then we told Europe, that here's what we did, they'd be taken care of and how they do now. So the government has been dealing with the administrative display of this huge problem, as we are mostly dealing with today, there is no special difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75970	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75971	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Horvat, you were talking about the paperwork I need to say to restore or which needs to be brought without being over six months old. Great question, because these very days the deadline for those who seek reconstruction is ending, the construction of houses in the area of special state care. Among other things, there is a document or questionnaire in which they must indicate when they first applied for the renovation of houses. Yesterday I was in the MUP for a gun list, so I met a man with a young man who passed a driver's test and said he didn't have a license, he can't get his license out because he's a doctor's conviction, and he's 18 and a half over six months old. So what could happen to a young man of 18 in half a year if he had to exercise his medical conviction again, give 420 or 430 kuna to prove that he was healthy and got a driver's license. This is, therefore, by the way, but it's a similar situation with these documents that can't be more than six months old. It's really funny, actually, it's sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75972	Thank you. My colleague Horvat's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75973	Thank you. Col. Grubisic, so when we discussed the basic law on this issue, we pointed out that even with the amendment we went where we asked for the lists that were formed and which were in force and accepted, i.e. that they did not have to be complemented. At that time, we were told no, not that it would be a more favourable situation for the users, that is, for those poor people who have been waiting ten years for the solution to their housing problem and cannot get in line. But what happened? It happened that they now have a bigger problem than when they collect basic data. Besides, you're absolutely right. The thing is so far-determined that every store costs and these people are simply put into a situation that for 4.5 of some new paper they have to give decent money, they have to go somewhere, they have to, they have big costs and no one guarantees that that year they'll be the lucky ones who get apartments. Next year, they have to do the same thing again because they're looking for data that's not more than six months old. Of course it's not the fault of the housing office, we're here as a legislative body in this way setting up a concept. So we have passed such regulations and we have laid down such rules of the game. And now they just have to act the way we said. So we often bring things in, and they're far from the real-life situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75974	Thank you. On behalf of the National Minorities Club Dragan Montenegrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75975	Thank you, dear vice president, representatives and deputy state office, respected colleagues and colleagues. The National Minorities Club in the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia will support the proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Framework Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank on a regional housing programme. First of all, because most of the people who are going to be dealt with by this framework agreement, i.e. the regional programme, are citizens of exactly the Republic of Croatia. We should be grateful for this kind of help to solve the problems we have when we have over a number of years behind us have failed to solve this problem ourselves. As far as the programme itself is concerned, it is important to say in the beginning that as a result of armed conflicts from the 1990s more than 3 million people have been displaced within and outside the borders of 4 countries covered by this programme. Our countries' efforts as well as the support of the international community were crucial in enabling most displaced people to return to their homes or to find other permanent solutions. However, a large number of people remain displaced throughout the region. The Republic of Croatia issues of care and home rights were primarily based on its Constitution and constitutional law on the rights of national minorities and on the Action Plan for the implementation of this Constitutional Law but also on other laws such as the Law on Areas of Special State Care. Although many NGOs initially said that a particular issue of household law cannot be replaced by a question of rights through housing, and in particular by a large number of associations and NGOs, it is necessary to apply the Annex G to the Agreement on Recognition, Protection and Return of Assets without doubt that large funds have been invested in the reconstruction, programmes have been adopted, supported, but all these measures have not produced a sufficiently good result. Areas affected by war, so-called war. the areas of special state concern remain fully underdeveloped and must be assisted by the State. According to its own estimates of the OSCE in Croatia, some 30,000 dwellings or tenants were seized during and shortly after the war. Unlike other former SFRY states in Croatia, residential law is not recognised as a form of ownership but is introduced by the Institute of Housing Care for several categories of population and for refugees who intend to return to the Republic of Croatia. Living care has a series of unfavourable elements. The procedure is long-term, complex, housing is regularly accepted significantly less than the previous ones, and some of the conditions or methods of allocation are literally discriminatory but yet they are accepted by Serbian representatives as a programme that will at least correct the damage and contribute to return. As I said to address the long-term rural situation of the partner country together with the international community launched a regional initiative to ensure voluntary return, reintegration or local integration of refugees... displaced persons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Citing the principles set out in the Sarajevo Declaration of 31.01.2005, which were further elaborated in the Belgrade joint statement of 25.03.2010, foreign ministers gathered again last year and signed a joint declaration reaffirming their commitment to ensuring the necessary political, material, legal, social and other assistance needed to end the long-term deployment in the region. As part of this regional initiative, the partner country has developed a joint regional multi-annual programme of permanent resolutions for refugees and internally displaced persons that form part of the joint ministerial declaration signed, with the aim of a comprehensive contribution to the completion of the long-term settlement situation in partner countries, with the provision of sustainable and sustainable housing solutions. With full respect for the rights of refugees and internally displaced persons and the mutual obligation to work closely together and coordinate activities to ensure lasting solutions either through voluntary return and reintegration or local integration. As we have heard, this regional housing programme will include 74,000 persons or 27 000 households. As regards the Republic of Croatia 3541 households and 8529 persons to be taken care of in the Republic of Croatia. The rest will be taken care of in Serbia, Montenegro and BiH. Even so, the Republic of Croatia has not been able to solve the problem of refugees and exiles, but we have not been satisfied with the pace, and therefore we strongly support this programme and assistance that will be provided to refugees, internally populated and exiled, and we think that since there is no other alternative possible solution to these people's problems, this is certainly the best from now on. As you know, through donor conferences, therefore, about 500 million euros will be collected to support this programme. So far, just over 260m euros have been collected, as far as the Republic of Croatia is concerned, in this five-year programme, which should therefore be completed by the beginning of 2018, together with our funding for national participation should be realised or spent slightly less than 120m euros. However, as I have already mentioned, we have had so far the way in which, through the PPDS Act or some other laws, we have addressed the issues of refugees, displaced and exiled persons, but I would only point out one thing. Here we heard from the past that it was and wasn't this state office formed but that it was hard to get through the Ministry of Regional Development. I'd just say that this rebalancing has been reduced to the refurbishment rate, building in the war-damaged housing units by 21,376,000 kuna. These are things that are often not mentioned here in the Croatian Parliament enough, unfortunately but what is even more devastating for us is that next year will be 20 years from the end to say all the war events in the Republic of Croatia. And I will finally remind you that normally since it was mentioned here in a debate on refugee status. There is therefore international legal protection for asylum seekers and refugees that the UN has brought through its 51st-year Convention on Refugee Status. It was then formed, so the UNHCR office was arranged to deal with issues and, as the High Commissioner for Refugees and Mr Antonio Guteras pointed out, the office will exist until the refugee issue is resolved. The UNHCR shall have the responsibility to monitor the application of the Convention, to monitor the procedure for establishing refugee status and to intervene with the competent authorities. International protection includes protected fundamental human rights, any ban on persecution and return, and what is likely to happen as a member or signatories of this Convention is likely to have the view that there is no longer a threat to living or being free from it because of racial, religious or national belongings should be put out of the question so as not to tell refugee status to some people who still have it. However, UNHCR is to protect refugees, to find permanent solutions to their problems, and to that end, UNHCR High Commissioner Antonio Guteras did not accept Croatia's proposal to withdraw refugee status from 91-95. To this end, several NGOs but external institutions have contacted the following letter. Therefore, in the last more than one year it is required or announced to abolish the refugee status of Serbs who have escaped from the Republic of Serbia and other countries of the former Yugoslavia during the war period from 91-95, we consider it our obligation to remind ourselves that resolving the remaining issues of refugee returns remained an obligation under Article 36. Anx 7 of the EU's accession treaty, and we believe that we are all in agreement that administrative erasure of refugee status cannot be a way in which commitments can be made. We believe that a decision that would satisfy this kind of demand would not contribute to improving the situation of refugees and resolving their status would otherwise make their situation worse and go hand in hand with policies that have made it impossible for decades to return. As an informal initiator and a multi-year advocate, we first think that the regional housing programme that we are talking about today, presented in the world as a successful model for the permanent resolution of the consequences of war events, could be questioned already at the beginning of its application. The administrative closure of the refugee chapter could call into question the achievement of its objective and it is almost certain that the donor's interest to secure the necessary resources would be undermined. This would lead to reactions from the countries of the regional partners towards a reduction in the resources foreseen to support sustainable return to integration. In the end, this would cause the partner country to lose, then a significant reduction in the obligation to resolve the remaining outstanding issues. Unfortunately, the circumstances in the Republic of Croatia have not changed better than its entry into the EU. On the contrary, the conditions for return have deteriorated significantly, although the continuation of the stable care programme has been a condition for Croatia to close Chapter 23. Only 80 apartments were allocated in 2013, and in the budget for this year, as I said, in one item, but let's say I'll remind you that, let's say, the APN item is intended only with 10 million kuna, which means let's say some... purchase of 20 apartments this year. Also the SIO program, program..., de facto no longer exists. The return process is difficult to compromise by the owner's obligation to compensate for the millionth amount for the unauthorized investment of the temporary beneficiaries of their assets. The ethnic criteria in the war crimes trial continue to apply and ensure impartiality and justice rather than increasing the employment of Serbs in the state administration, the judiciary and police have been reduced. For all of this, we ask that the Republic of Croatia do not abolish refugee status because it will be so difficult to violate their right, the right of refugees to return which... is denied and which should not now be denied by administrative eradication of refugee status. With the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, this refugee issue has become part of the common obligation and its possible resolution by administrative decommissioning instead of an active return policy would be permanent and difficult to compromise the bearers of this obligation. And in the end, I personally think that this is a new moment and I'm glad that it came to this that the Republic of Croatia is, I say, ahead of this business in relation to other partner countries and how much knowledge I have we are the only ones who have come to this stage, de facto that we can already slowly apply this signed agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75976	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75977	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Montenegrin, you said that Croatia, to say in some ways in this programme, has moved away from the other republics of the former state. It says here on page 2 that through this housing program it is planned to take care of 3541 families, i.e. 8, which refers to 8500 people, which is when we share with the number of families about 34 000 euros per household, by one family, so about 260 thousand kuna. When we look at the population table, users by category and country, then we see that in the Republic of Croatia, so just 3541 households, in BiH that have experienced, let's say really great war horrors, migrations and everything else, 5400, and in the Republic of Serbia 16 thousand 780 households, which is a number that, I don't know, I won't say disproportionate or would be able to comment on. What particularly bothers me, and you have not stated it is a weak media, hence media, poor media monitoring of these legal regulations so that those who most likely have very little information and knowledge about these legal regulations can be explained through public media, electronic media, television, nothing can be seen. So there are those who will out of that ignorance and be late and won't be in time... their demands. You know that yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75978	Thank you. The answer of a colleague of the Montenegrins. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75979	Well, I'll start with this other one, I absolutely agree with you. It's nothing. It's nothing. It's nothing. It's nothing. It's nothing. It's nothing. So I think it's probably going to be, there's going to be some critical mass that she didn't even know about this information, and there's probably going to be an extension of this deadline. That's the first thing. Secondly, I assume that you have plagiarized on this ratio of the number of households that will be resolved by these four states, now the normal monastery of the state and that most of it in the Republic of Serbia, but as I said at the beginning of my presentation, I assume is the most, that these are in the most part of the state of the Republic of Serbia, so in this overall programme. So if you've read, you see here that for Montenegro they have some internal... etc., but in this case it's about people who, unfortunately, have failed to return to the Republic of Montenegro for 20 years and have expressed their desire to stay in those countries where they are currently, where they are currently staying so that the plan is probably according to theirs, a statement of their interest, so I think that's the only reason why the number of families that are going to be solved in these countries is exactly the one that I've listed to you right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75980	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75981	Here, dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable representatives of the proposings and MPs and MPs. The predecessors have already said a lot about this, so there's no point in repeating too much of the fact about this regional programme, but I think that what needs to be highlighted in particular in the light of the discussion of the predecessors is that the Republic of Croatia has done an immeasurable amount in terms of both return and exile, refugees and rebuilding of houses, housing care, return of life, infrastructure and all that, it has done a lot compared to its economic and economic strength over the past years, and I think that fact was more or less recognised by all relevant observers or participants of the process. And as counterpart Mulic mentioned over 2 billion euros in the process, directly the Republic of Croatia has invested, a small state with a large budget. And the Republic of Croatia, as a rule, either to the greatest extent or especially to years as it moved towards war, has indeed shown one very high level, regardless of who was in power at which stage, a very high level of some kind of social justice and indeed equally and equally approached all refugees and exiles regardless of whether they were on the side of the aggressor or on the side of those who defended the Republic of Croatia, whether they were members of an independent nation. And I think that rarely anyone today in 2014 can claim that in this process of restoring life, returning returnees, exiles, refugees were selective, unfair or misbehaved, I say, regardless of those who defended Croatia and participated in its defence or those who attacked Croatia and participated in the aggression against the Republic of Croatia. When it comes to this regional housing programme as one international project, considering that it is technically well-developed, however, that financial basis in the way defined, we believe that the Republic of Croatia has negotiated very badly and has taken on a financially immeasurable amount of liabilities from other countries involved in the same process, and that it has received unmistakably less funds than other countries. A special consideration should be given to the Republic of Serbia and the fact that the Republic of Serbia is participating with its own funds with 10%, the Republic of Serbia with 25% of its own resources participating in the programme. So the Republic of Serbia gets 300 million kuna and therefore participates with 33 million kuna in the programme and the Republic of Serbia gets 90 million and participates with 30 million kuna in the programme. So the euro, I apologize to the euro, is all about the euro. Also when it comes to weather dynamics and Serbia has better deployed dynamics, it is only Croatia which is obviously so much in economic growth and expansion that there is no problem in three years to pay for one third of these funds, but in the first three years. means planned for each year under 10m euros, while Serbia, for example, pays 10% in the first year, 25, 25, 25, 25, and 14% only obviously Croatia is so a country of strong financial resources that it can solve the commitments and manage them in three years by paying up to a third of the target funds, so around 10m euros per year. Of course that is not the case, I would ask for an additional explanation in this case why in such an unfavourable proportion Croatia has negotiated in relation to other countries of national funds with which the Republic of Croatia participates in the programme in relation to the other three countries that are also participating in the programme. What were the effects of the final process or when I said that the Republic of Croatia really did do a lot in financial terms, tens and tens of thousands of houses were built in Croatia, regardless of who brought them down. But what happens today to these houses and these settlements, and who today lives in these vast settlements and villages that have been restored in these 15, 20 years? So anyone with opportunity and time can drive around Eastern Slavonia before night and see that we have hundreds of empty villages, that we have tens of thousands of empty houses, that we have built houses where no one lives, but no one. I don't know what houses they are or whose houses they are, or why no one lives in them, but we all know that no one lives in them. And that we've spent hundreds of millions of euros in houses where no one's around. We built them in a way that we could build them out of bricks, that none of them were finished, that none of them had a facade, that they were empty, and that there was a stranger growing around them. Do we need exiles and refugees? Yes, we need exiles and refugees and all those people who can return to the Republic of Croatia it is good to return, especially those younger age groups who can participate further in the construction of this Croatian society, this society that dies anyway. And of course we do, and it would be good to have everyone who can participate, especially. If we haven't learned from these past 20 years that we've been rebuilding houses without the restoration of life, rebuilding factories, jobs don't represent anything, and now we're going again with another program where we're going to give 30 million euros again to still build some houses for some people. I don't really know, and we're going to make all those houses in all these years, so we're going to have another 10 or 15 thousand new empty houses built from blocks that have grown up in rabble in villages of eastern, western Slavonia, Banovina and Kordun. And if these are our social goals, here's what we're going to do through this program. But I don't think we actually hit those goals that we should have. And I guess the goals were to get life back and people to live on. But life has not been able to return to those places in a good way. And on the other hand, what I don't understand, on the one hand, we have tens of thousands of different demands on a variety of grounds, whether the victims, these, those, the returnees, the refugees, the vulnerable groups, and the like that need living care. On the other hand, we have information that we have hundreds of thousands of empty housing units, that we are overloaded by ownership, that we have an enormous number of residential buildings per capita. And then what's going on together? Is everyone in one segment doing something and in another segment as God gives us. Do we even have some imaginary national policy about our real estate problem? And do these people tomorrow and in these empty houses that God has dearly knows how much they can expect next year or over a year of real estate taxes? Because they are now newly-roasted rich people who now have houses in Croatia, real estate, they are developing real estate businesses. I mean, this plan as well as that previous policy is on the trail of actually systematic let's build houses, let's build houses, let's build houses. Whether or not, as people will return, it will be a minor problem. Whether or not life will return to those areas, that's a minor problem. If these settlements, the villages of the cities survive, will life run there. This fact and this problem, in fact, not one of our national programmes, regional programme and any other programme has actually designed or offered answers to how to actually start a life in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75982	Branko Box, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75983	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A colleague of Djurovic, you spoke of Croatia having done an immeasurable amount for the restoration of exiles and refugees. I absolutely agree with you, and that brings me back to the time behind the storm, so after the end of the Homeland War at the administration that was called within the Ministry of Reconstruction of Reconstruction by Dr. Ljudevit Herceg. So with less than 30 people, they kept an eye on and conducted procedures for rebuilding all the destroyed facilities in the Republic of Croatia for social infrastructure, for municipal infrastructure, for rebuilding sacral objects, etc. See how much administrative apparatus today in the Republic of Croatia, how much in the past meeting, or in the ministry, until the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care of Employees worked on how many assistants, deputies, etc. was formed. So we have an inefficient administration, that's a fact. And that's why too few solutions that I mentioned earlier for renovation and housing are being issued. You also talked about empty houses. So with the latest amendments to the Law on the area of special state care, an article was abolished that said that the obligation of the owner of a house whose house was renovated was to move in after the renovation within 30 days. Whether it's an accident or not, I don't think so. And I agree absolutely with you that of these 3541 families, i.e. 8529, we will get a copy of what we now have to do with the renovated houses that are empty. Why? Well, we've already assigned apartments to former tenants who have an obligation to live in these apartments today, I know that, with myself and in Benkovec and Knin and Obrovec, etc., these apartments are empty. That's what the president also assumes she knows, too. So I just agree with you that we're going to spend money, but it's not at all questionable whether we should rebuild the object to whoever wants to return, live in that facility.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75984	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75985	Yeah, we don't really have a clearly defined strategy of what and how to do with life in those places and it would be happier for us as a society to maybe solve a part of all these big houses that stand empty than to now build new blanks, it's actually my whole facility and I think we all saw it that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75986	Melita Mulic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75987	Thank you. Col. Djurovic spoke about how Croatia has made a significant effort in both economic and social terms and I completely agree and in fact agree with you on the return and renewal. And I agree with you, in fact, that we need to have a strategy to breathe life into all these areas of special state concern in a way that if we just take care of the returnees and the refugees on a housing basis, unless we give them another way to realize our existence, we have done nothing. But I would also like to point out, because I spoke in my debate and I think when I talk about this program you said you didn't want these funds to be invested only in houses that would stand empty. I said in my debate that it was four projects, it was people living in the Knin area, people living in the Korenica area, it was people who waited 7 and more years for accommodation, it was very old people, it was the most endangered groups, so it was very much, and I said it once, every pain is heavy and individual. But it's about people who are really in every way threatened by existence and people who have the right to their home after so many years of impromptu life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75988	Drazen Djurovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75989	Yeah, we agree, but please don't get me wrong, but how are you going to help these very old people when you put them in such a house? If we're going to solve their problem, I seriously doubt it because that house is no longer their home, these people are going to have such a very old, much bigger problem when they find themselves in a house where they're going to have to pay for the directors, all of her expenses, the maintenance and everything else that's going along with it than they've unfortunately had so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75990	Mile Horvat, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75991	My colleague Djurovic, I have no doubt that you of good faith have analyzed this and discussed this agreement, but two thesis have made me feel like I'm in some kind of dilemma now that I'm thinking about what you're going to say. So, you've spent a lot of time analyzing the funds related to the Republic of Serbia under this agreement, which I think is irrelevant. We need to commit to the effect of this agreement on us in the Republic of Croatia. Someone who runs the whole action, this international factor probably knows why this proportion and the allocation of funds and the participation of its own domicile assets has been determined in such a way that it is multiple in favour of Serbia than in favour of the Republic of Croatia. In addition, it says that in Serbia there are 40,000 still people in refugee status, and in Croatia only 8. Therefore, this information gives reasons why this proportion is so determined. The second thing, the constant question of why we're rebuilding something, and it's empty. We're rebuilding it because it's private property, which is destroyed and private property has to be returned. If I'm going to live in it, it's my private attitude towards the whole thing. The second question is whether we in the Regional Development Strategy have allowed the PPDS to develop evenly as other spaces. Of course we haven't, and this is another topic, and these people are collateral damage to the absence of such a healthy strategy for the uniform development of the Republic of Croatia. If this uniform development were truly uniform, then these spaces would have a more realistic chance of life. You can't expect someone to come to a small village in western Slavonia and move in because we restored his private house by law force, not voluntarily, and then there's nothing to live on and he's been there for six months and he goes back to his son because he doesn't have 100 euros to pay for the electricity. And that's our life, but that doesn't mean that we don't have as a society the obligation to return private property to a condition that was before the destruction. That's kind of the logic of this job.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75992	Drazen Djurovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75993	As regards the funds of that amount received by the Republic of Serbia and the one to be paid by the Republic of Croatia, it is our obligation because we are talking about the money of taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia that will be singled out. Therefore, it is very legitimate to ask why we did not get equal conditions in these negotiations as did Serbia or BiH. It is a completely legitimate issue towards Croatian taxpayers who are asked to single out 30m euros. It's very legitimate. So I don't regret that they're going to get 300 million for 30, but I regret that we won't get to our 30, 100 or 150 million, so in that sense. The second question, when it comes to housing and when we talk about the obligations of the state and whose obligations, would be discussed, and the Republic of Serbia if it had invested 2 billion euros as invested by Croatia would no longer have any of those 45,000 people in its area. How many hundreds of thousands of Republics of Croatia have taken care of this year and, of course, the third question of the Republic of Croatia should have a strategy on how to bring life back to those areas, and life if we haven't learned so far I don't know when we're going to learn because the practice has shown us that life hasn't returned to a good degree through this housing restoration.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75994	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75995	Thank you very much. Col. Djurović, of course the financial effects Croatia has and Croatian taxpayers under this agreement must touch us. It turns out that when we look at this agreement that the indirect Republic of Croatia is co-financed in fact by a part of those who will be provided with housing in Serbia. That's how it turns out, that's how it is. But when you talk about empty apartments, about empty houses, about dead areas, here you go, you know some of them from here, you go from Croatia to Dubica, Kostanica, Clay to Kordun, Lica, etc., you will see in the evening that very few houses light up, as you can see in eastern Slavonia in some apartments in towns in eastern Slavonia that these residential buildings have no life in them. There are no lights, and the apartments are made, the money is invested. Many of these people have a residential unit in both Serbia and Croatia made by the Croatian state. There are two places in which the Croatian state is in some way obliged to rebuild and build a house under these agreements. Says private property. One person told me after returning from Serbia to Croatia, which the Croatian police did not guard my house, they took the fridge, someone took the refrigerator and I don't know what. So if the Croatian police had every house, then how many cops would we need, 2 million. This question is a question of something not to say an extension of a debate, in fact, and of what happened in the Homeland War. It's kind of like that. And I wonder how long we'll be having more of this debate about it. Well, it's been almost 20 years since the war, since '95, so whether we're going to wage a hundred-year war or when we're done taking care of that apartment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75996	Thank you. Drazen Djurovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75997	Yes, I wouldn't go back to war at all, but I think that this topic should be seriously completed, indeed, and that the Republic of Croatia, if you ask me at this time, would be happier for the Republic of Croatia to invest in the creation of new jobs than it invests in such programmes. And through the opening of new jobs to see how happy people would come back and have a place to live, there wouldn't be any problem. People go to Australia today with bread, he doesn't have an apartment there. But he's leaving for the job he's got. Here you can build a castle, if there's nowhere to work and what to live on. And we're constantly in reverse logic. And of course, I'm not going in at all because there really are examples of both the kind and the kind that were being built, the way it was being built, whether it was bigger, whether it was less than what was once, who crashed, who paid. But what we all know is that the aggressor in the Republic of Croatia the Republic of Serbia and the former Yugoslavia never paid anything and that all of this was actually borne by the Republic of Croatia, its taxpayers, its citizens and with certain international assistance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75998	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u75999	Well, my colleague, it's hard for you to agree because you've defined your problems well, but you're still making some wrong conclusions. Yes, houses have been torn down in Croatia. We had an enemy tear down houses where some of our own had to take part in it, and yet we all pay for it together. And the truth is, the fact is, it's been a long time, a lot of Croatia has invested in this and with this programme it will invest and not yet built houses for all those who have been destroyed. Asking today a question so what are we going to do about building those houses when they're closed anyway, anyway, no one's doing it is a little bit and hypocritical. Because if it were your own house and any other house, it wouldn't be a problem. But it was brought down to me, no matter who was destroyed, I am entitled to the law, the basis of the law that we have brought here to restore it. And the truth is that the other problem is then where the houses are restored to look then and try to get people to work. But when you complain about this fate and everyone says how much real estate you have. Well, these are properties that we normally didn't acquire, but our fathers and our grandfathers, and that's another thing that at the time of socialism it was dead capital and that today we don't know that own property, because it often doesn't even know the state to function, let alone a natural person especially on some passive landscapes. But also, some of the measures that are announced, which are fairer in the entire tax system, can be precisely encouraging to place these properties on the market or in any way that they are in function or family and then slightly wider social communities, rather than being locked up. But let's not speculate on what we have to do to bring this job to an end and that all those brought down by law will be restored and restored.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76000	Drazen Djurovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76001	Yes, about the wrong conclusions, well everyone gives their conclusion we see the years passing and we see the effects of that. I think it would be good if someone had actually done an analysis and tried to see a really systematic, objective display of everything that's been done. We know how many restorations of what has never been brought down. So let's talk about it. So how much of it was restored, how much of it was built that was never touched. Who ever answered for that? So why, let's not be hypocrites. But let us now look at the moment of the Croatian recession in which the Croats and Serbs are the same, if it is our priority to build phantom homes for people who no longer live here, or if it is our priority to deal with the problem of 350,000 blocked accounts. There are no jobs, no economic incompetence, and there's no such thing as a recession crisis that affects all of these people regardless of whether or not this house is made for them, it's not built or it's going to be built. And third, wouldn't it really be happier if we already had, and I don't know exactly how many in Croatia, and I guess at least 10, 15 000 of those phantom built houses that are now sold publicly or privately might be happier for many people to just finally move into those houses.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76002	And Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76003	Dear fellow Djurovic has already been told everything in replicas, but here you have mentioned in fact one name that has been spoken, said recently, and that is that we are rich property owners and that Croats actually have far more property than other EU citizens in their possession, with us living far worse than those living in rented apartments in Croatia. Comparing us with others is unprincipled and hypocritical because when you come to any country of the European Union and get a job, you can rent an apartment, you can live politely and you don't need to worry about where you end up. You're practically out on the street with nothing. Our social aids are not the ones that could bear the burden of subsistence, and that's a completely different story. And when you say this, I agree with you. I mean, it's right and those who say it should, it's private property, it needs to be restored, it needs to be returned to people. And the other thing is we have various strategies for bricks under quotes banal, but we don't have a life strategy, exactly the return of life, that's exactly it. Remember in the coast how many villages were made for both Croatian refugees and Croats who escaped from Bosnia that are empty. Why? Because they were made in the wrong places, because it was just built, I guess it was supposed to talk about there's a lot of crime and there's a lot to build. You said unfinished houses a lot of percentages were given under the table. That's not what you're talking about. We've put a lot of things into bricks, and we're a little bit in life, and that's what you see for those almost 400 thousand unemployed, people who come back and have nowhere to work, people who are hungry. That's not what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76004	The reply to the replica Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76005	Yeah, well, you know that 100 thousand kuna program in construction material for areas of special state concern. How much was built here just to build? How much of this material was raised just to take the material? How much money was laundered just to wash the money? And what do people do? Someone offered them 100,000 kunas in construction material, so people were looking for mass, and there are as many of them as you want on those lists. Well, of course people will get back to you if someone offers. It doesn't matter if you had anything to do with the war, you did get hurt, you didn't, you're in some area. And then people actually got into situations that they were building more out of these programs of this huge house in these places and of course those houses exist and now they're being burdened. Because there's nothing, there's no need for a house, but I'm going to get you a year, two, three taxes on it, and then you're going to be in trouble what you're doing right now? So I think that we can really face the fact that, on the one hand, when it comes to the introduction of that tax all the time, as an argument on the part of the SDP, the thesis is that the Croats are too rich in real estate, that we have so much real estate, that it's more unsustainable than that people are rich. And I keep saying that this is about the good part of actually real estate in rural villages, real estates of very low value. They're extremely low values. You can see today that houses are sold in these areas of reconstruction at a price lower than their building value. And why did she fall so much? Well, because she de facto didn't cost whoever did it then didn't cost anything. He doesn't live in it, he doesn't need it. Therefore, he is willing to sell her almost for any money. And by doing so, the whole market is collapsing, and there is no one interested even in these properties.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76006	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76007	Thank you very much. I listened to my colleague Djurovic, I could agree with something, but you have simply tried to explain the problem of the refugees and the exiles. It is not so simple that it could be explained on these examples of you and possibly abuse because it is something that has been going on for more than 17, 18 years, and the state has come to terms with it. Unfortunately, mostly their own resources and large amounts. If we had a deal like this, this isn't something since yesterday, this has been going on for a little while longer, two or three years if not longer, where someone gives you 75% that you give your 25% would probably solve this problem a long time ago because property is owned and property must be returned if damaged, then the state unfortunately has to do it. That's a fact. Because that way you could simply question whether someone lives or doesn't live somewhere, so whether it makes sense or doesn't, every village, especially on the coast, you have a cottage that lives only 2 months in summer and 10 months are located somewhere in some space. And there's no lights and there's no one looking at anything. But I see this as a different kind of vision, one way that this government went wrong, and that's setting up an office that can't parise the former ministry or the current Ministry of Regional Development and in a way that solves this problem the way it started. That office will not, unfortunately, and we can see for ourselves, solve the problems it has effectively. And here you can see what's going on, you're losing financial resources in the budget every year, you've lost a lot of funds through rebalancing, you're not dealing with the problem. These people who applied here have the right to do so, and I don't think the state is going through the office to solve it in time or in the way that's been going for 10 years, no matter what the problems you've caused. Unfortunately, our people are leaving the country, and they're not refugees, they're not exiled. They're leaving young, highly educated, and that's our problem. The workplace would do a lot of good, but it's not the only thing that matters in this agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76008	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Replication response, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76009	I wanted to actually, of course, that in one debate it is absolutely impossible to present all aspects not even close to this very complex problem that you said yourself that it is really very complex, it lasts long term. But I just wanted to say one maybe different aspect, the aspect in which we, in public speaking and speaking in the Parliament, never or almost never mention. Not that it's the only aspect, of course there's a lot of such a complex situation with a lot of human destiny, with a lot of problems of course there's a lot of faces and looks. I just wanted to actually here's one of these pictures that we're all talking about but we never mention it in public simply in front of us. I think that very often in many debates when they happen like this, we focus on them as just a partial part of them and very often we lose the bigger picture. I think we usually lack a bigger picture in politics, so here's my humble ambition to offer it in this part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76010	On behalf of HNS representative Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76011	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, Madam President of the State Department for Reconstruction and Housing Care. What the clubs have all said so far, so I can say that they're all right in one hand. What we at the HNS Club think is right that this framework agreement gives citizens who were covered by war activities the opportunity to return to their homes to take care of them. It's part of life and death. Someone has the right to decide where they're going to die. Well, I don't see any reason to have so many questions about how to use it. What we believe in the club was good and the government's efforts were good before this government to sign this framework agreement by voluntary agreement between stakeholders or, in the framework agreement, what the partner countries say. We think it's also human and it's humane and that on that rule we need to build and accept this bill. This law is, the framework law is based first on the objective of the regional initiative of the Sarajevo Process for Refugees and the displaced person who started it in 2005 again at the Belgrade Conference in order to make sure that the partners commit and sign this framework agreement on the regional housing programme in 2011. What is also important is that this agreement of 4 states, BIH, Croatia, Serbia-Montenegro, including the Council of Europe Development Bank which has also created a fund for a regional housing programme. This is what I think we should support and that we should certainly do with this framework agreement what is best possible. In war operations there are 4 million people who have changed in war areas whether temporarily, permanently evicted or exiled. I think it's an obligation both human and human right to all those families who want to live no matter what part of this former Yugoslavia's space that needs to be made possible. That is why we in HNS do not doubt that this framework agreement will deliver good results because all the other three partners have also voluntarily signed this agreement. This is about the care of 74 thousand people from 27 residential units who need to be killed and taken care of by a certain dynamic of the state. What is also important is to note that in housing, they are refugees, in fact, that returnees are categorized to 6 categories. The first category, I'm going to talk here about data related to the Republic of Croatia, these are refugees who left the Republic of Croatia in 91-95, who still live in collective centres today, meaning living together. This is about 242 households and 461 people. Then we have category two, these are also refugees who are located in private accommodation, former housing rights holders for the Republic of Croatia that is 307 households, 518 persons. Also in category two are former tenant rights holders without a permanent solution in the country of origin and acceptance, so those tenants. It is also good that the Republic of Croatia has applied UNHCR criteria in its application, meaning the only universal criteria that this cannot be arbitrary. We also have category three, these are returnees in BIH, Croatia, there are 2747 households or 7032 persons. Category four, these are displaced persons, private accommodation, 245 households, 518 persons. And this category five refers to the persons of a vulnerable person in the BIH. Category six, it binds to people in Montenegro. As regards this programme for the Republic of Croatia, 3541 families, or 8529, should be taken care of. This includes 119m and 700m euros. The Republic of Croatia needs to give about 20m euros in this section. These funds are significant but still if we see that they ate construction operations that would be involved, then the Republic of Croatia will, by some part, activate its construction operations, securely provide that part. The Framework Agreement regulates the legal framework for the use of funding from the Regional Housing Programme managed by the Development European Bank and regulates the legal framework for the cooperation of the Republic of Croatia and the Development Bank. The government of the Republic of Croatia in the In 2013, it adopted a decision to initiate a procedure for the conclusion of a framework agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank on regional care. Normally, what we are doing with the EU, that these are very strict rules and very strict financial criteria which we consider to be good. With all the withdrawals and all the other activities involved in the construction, there are very strict public procurement procedures, it certainly gives certain certainty again that this job will also be of quality. What is important is that, through a regional housing programme in the Republic of Croatia, 3541 families are planned to be taken care of and for the purpose of the 120 million-million-dollar fund, with the Republic of Croatia giving 25%. The HNS Club will agree and accept this framework agreement, which we consider to be well done. And those questions that have been raised by my colleagues, I mean especially my colleague Djurovic, and these issues deserve all the areas of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of returnees, exiles, internally displaced persons, surely they all need a job and all political parties on the part, and especially the Government of the Republic of Croatia has a great responsibility to provide people with one of the basic rights, the right to work. The HNS Club will support the framework agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76012	colleague of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76013	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Mandic, you have rightly returned to the past, or in the history of this agreement, and I think it is important to remind once again that the roots of this agreement that we are discussing today are in a joint declaration signed in 2011 by the foreign ministers of the 4 partner countries in this project, that this is a regional approach, or a regional project and programme, and then the main frameworks in which this agreement is now to be approved or ratified. And the fact that it should also be reminded that in Chapter 23 which has now been the past, one of the important issues that we had to discuss and solve was the return or care of refugees, and that even then, and the need to speak openly from the budget, we had to allocate considerable resources. It was our obligation to respect it and to respect it today. And since the beginning of handling and resolving the issue of exiles and refugees means exiles who had to go to their own country in Croatia from their homes and refugees who either went from Croatia to other countries or third countries or came to Croatia as they did from BiH, so the main criteria for return were always volunteering. The fact that we have respected the constitutional value that everyone has the right to return home, therefore right to home and, of course, to return to safe areas. And about making it possible for everyone to work, to live from their work and in these areas is the obligation of every government and every unit of local administration and self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76014	Ivica Mandic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76015	Thank you very much. I am pleased that very often the attitudes with which I represent the HNS Club are met with understanding and support from the former Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. I also said in my debate that without any reservation support to all governments so far who have worked on this issue regardless of the acts of war and the horrors of war. But I think that every person regardless of national, religious person has the right to choose the place he wants to live and how he lives. Normally for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia there is that law if they are involved in a crime... by other laws, and everyone else has that right. It's also important in this whole thing to say that it's private property. Private property is inalienable. The Republic of Croatia must comply with EU rules, we have signed a certain manner of behaviour in pre-accession agreements. We didn't sign this just to sign it, but we signed it to basically apply it and implement it. I think that the Republic of Croatia has these plans of return and housing I think it might have gone too ambitious to handle it in three years, even though it's a five-year deadline. I think if we can settle this in five years, we can all be satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76016	Dragan Montenegrin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76017	Comrade Mandic, I'd say you finally detected this well because I wanted to mention it too. But first, I'm going to say in my replica why I answered, so I've come to you to replicate because you said that this program would cover all those people where the war was going on. No, I don't. Not only them, but also where there were no war events, and where people escaped from or where they were exiled from, that's the first thing. And as far as this is concerned, I think it's actually the essence of understanding one part of this problem to say if this question is being imposed unfortunately as humanitarianally always, and instead of looking at it on the other hand, how it should be seen and that's legal, so right to your own private property as you said. And then there comes this kind of debate, I would say even scarred in one part simply because the housing programme unfortunately won't say "supervised" in that category, but they're all under the circumstances, and now we have a chance for these discussions that say there's no one in those houses, that they're gone people, that the first thing has no reason to stay. The other thing, which one of us colleagues has the amount of property, is my private business. Whether I'm gonna be in it now or not is my private business. Why am I staying in it? Well, because I'm given a chance to live to work, etc., yes. And they always end up having a feeling in the discussions of some colleagues that it's always all Serbs' fault. Now, are Serbs to blame for the downfall of these companies, so they don't have anywhere to work? And that's why they're guilty. But I don't think there's any need to talk about it, although I could talk about it, let's just say the damage law that occurred... by an act of law that's been amended or, say, when it comes to the spending of taxpayers' funds, let's say that the assistance that went on and BiH knows very well in some cases that some people have come to their home in BiH, unfortunately that's how it is, but it has abuse, unfortunately. This is abuse... abuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76018	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76019	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow, the largest number of refugees are still from those places where war was going on, and I emphasized that part. I haven't ruled out any of those people whose houses have been raised that have escaped under any kind of pressure. What's important in this whole thing is that the state, with the help of the Development Bank of Europe, needs to rebuild these houses, should allow people if they want to go back and we have to truly want these people back, that there will be no foreigners or unwanted guests here, that these people will be part of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76020	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, a colleague, Branko Boxti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76021	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Madam President, with the deputy, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will first congratulate the president since he is practically one of the few who has avoided Linic's scissors in the rebalancing process and has received an increase of 13 million kuna. According to this bill, the joint regional programme on permanent solutions for refugees internally displaced persons is a joint initiative of the BiH, the Republic of Croatia, Montenegro and the Republic of Serbia, i.e. partner countries based on a joint declaration, we have already heard this in Belgrade in 2011. The aim of the programme is to provide permanent housing solutions for 74 000 people, i.e. the regional housing programme, consists of four national housing programmes. Within the framework of the programme relating to the Republic of Croatia, it is provided for the same way as we heard 3541 families, i.e. 8520 persons, and when we divide these two figures you get a family of 2.4 members. I think what's very important to emphasize. So here is the programme that was launched by signing this Declaration in November 2011 where funds should be provided for the completion of the refugee return programme in Croatia that this country has almost fully financed. For Croatia, practically nothing has changed. Through this programme and the agreement that we need to ratify, we have provided a total of 10.9m euros in donations so far and we can no longer get through this fund because the Republic of Croatia has become a member of the European Union, so now we become a provider of international development aid. Which means we're going to have to pay the money into that joint fund instead of getting the funds. 10.9 million euros is not little, however, if all administrative costs are summed up, the cost of managing the project that we have so far and we will have more, then consultants who will also be charged fat, more benefits than that seem to me to have everyone else than the state budget. Moreover, Croatia must establish all these mechanisms for the implementation of the programme, which are written in these woods, and until 2018 we must report to the bank what we have done. Why no more money has been paid for Croatia, is it because we did a lot of work and financed most of the return on our own? No one has, of course, publicly admitted to us that we did a good part of the job and, by the way, has been accusing us of genocide for the last time. The second question is where do we get these 100 million euros from how much we need for this programme at least as planned by 2018 and, of course, in this situation after the rebalance in which we are constantly told that we do not have the money. The key question for me is whether we really need that kind of money to get the remaining refugees back, meaning for those 3541 families. That's what I'm asking since we have it seems to me to be double criteria when it comes to Croats and Serbs. So it's not at all, I said before in the replica, it's not questionable or controversial for all the families who want to return to their homes whether they need to be restored or not. On the other hand, we have defenders, members of HVO who do not have the status of defenders and, of course, since housing claims are submitted until 31.3. of the current March of this year, and these demands will then be processed sometime by May, so the results, or lists, will only be known sometime in 5 months. So the members of the HVO are fat on me as opposed to the rest. Why do I say, among other things, that this category is not being checked for housing status or private property in the area from which it wants to return here? So we have double criteria. And I won't mention, or before there were stories about the status of the families of the dead and the missing families who had no more families, who had a residence in the PPDS area or on the facilities that were devastated. And of course we have living people who live I don't know in Zagreb, Germany, Australia or wherever in the white world. The fact is also that over the last 2.5 years in housing, little has been done, a little more than a hundred new housing solutions have been made, and I think about 100 apartments. Also, almost none of those ten thousand waiting did not receive rent an apartment or a house and a small number received construction material. The first-degree housing procedure has been transferred since last year's legal amendment to state administration offices, at the county level which have not yet taken over all the documentation and have not been teamed up to be able to submit that amount of housing applications, which is 10 to 15 thousand. In addition, as I said before, they are only now being accepted. As far as I'm aware, it means from the formation of the office to practically today, a small number of these solutions have been issued, so it's also a significant problem. Some 35,000 families in the PPDS have been taken care of through housing, and the least I've said before, about 10,000 lively is interested in solving this problem and is eager to expect these lists of priorities. It should be pointed out that in the Republic of Croatia, the housing programme takes place practically from the Storm to here and looking at the total amount means that total number, we can also freely conclude that it is at the very end, regardless of how many more we have, means about 10 percent of the total amount of housing requirements. What I want to point out is the fact that, through this framework agreement, we deal with other than these five categories that include the various statuses of groups of returnees from the countries of the signatories of the agreement, through the choice of users of another group, which is referred to as former homeowners. So this same group has the right to housing through the National PPDS Act, means through this agreement and through the PPDS Act. So this group is being dealt with in two ways, and at the same time the question is why such persons from other countries of the signatories of this agreement do not have the same rights. First of all, I mean, I said before the unpopulated Croats from BiH also have nowhere to go back to BiH, whose houses are devastated. And yet another inequality or better said inequality in the resolution of housing care is seen in terms, before I also mentioned but not enough, points by HV defenders and HVO defenders. Namely, the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision to provide housing for Croatian defenders with 30 points on the basis of their status, while HVO defenders do not have any points and all because they are not registered in the Croatian Defence Register. So this is not regulated by the PPDS Act but by the Law on Croatian Defence, and I think it is unfair and that it should be corrected absolutely. What is still to be pointed out is the fact that the entire process of housing and this year will not fully function, that the whole process will be slowed down again for the new reconstruction of state offices, means no matter how up-to-date and valuable the State Office for Reconstruction and Residential Care because of this same reshuffle means you wanted-didn't want to be able to be operational and fast. In the end, I would also like to ask a question that has been asked here many times, why the urgency of this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76022	Melita Mulic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76023	Thank you. Since you are the mayor of Benkovec, I have no doubt that you know this matter well, and if there were still a correction of the incorrect quote in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I would rather use it than an institute of replicas. I thought you said two inaccuracies. First of all, you were talking about discrimination. The programme refers to both refugees and internally displaced persons. And the other thing is that speaking of the donor funds that are therefore laid down in the Council of Europe Development Bank from different international actors and states, you said that, in addition to these donations, the Republic of Croatia does not get anything, or that nothing is changed because for consultants implementation and the rest of us are paying ourselves again. This is not true, see the article and contracts between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank where it is clearly and individually stated that the entire implementation of the operational structure is financed by the Council of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76024	Replication response, Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76025	Thank you. Well, of course we look at this problem with different eyes because I face this problem every day unlike you. You've got this agreement in your hands, read it out, commented on it, but for me every day people knock on the door means both the population. I'm telling you this responsibly. If you have two families in the same status, so neither one of them is residently taken care of, one of them is of BiH origin and came with a bag in hand on the ice and we have a returner from Serbia, I don't know where he wants to go back to his ruined house. The one who wants to return from Serbia for him is not asked for the origin of the property whether he has the right or not to have the right to live care, and the Croat from BiH must deliver a certificate from BiH, meaning from the municipality from which it originates that he has no property in BiH. That's the kind of discrimination I'm talking about. In that sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76026	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76027	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So, fellow Boxtija, you have concluded that by now 27 000 families should be provided with this plan which is and would amount to a total of 119.7m euros or 25% of the participation of the Croatian state in this plan, although so far in the last 2.5 years as Mr. Greek says they are... nothing but a hundred solutions issued on PPDS where exiles and refugees have been taken care of. So now it's a hit because again someone said you need to do it as soon as possible, and you need to regulate it and secure the means to do it. Although I absolutely agree on the discrimination that is clearly present that Croats from BiH who were members of the Croatian Defence Council must make explicit solutions that they have no property in BiH and only then can they enter into housing with smaller points of value than they are members of the Croatian Army. Similarly, it is clear that 13 680 Croatian defenders are waiting for housing. There is absolutely no sign of finding a solution to their housing in... budget or any form of housing, whether credit forms or building apartments until we know whether they want to return to this population, whether they clearly demonstrate the will and desire to live in the Republic of Croatia by respecting positive legal regulations in the Republic of Croatia we know nothing about them. They do not need any documentation and we will provide these huge funds while returning to Bosnia and Herzegovina, in Posavin, in Vojvodina absolutely makes it impossible for Croats. I'm sure there's no room for an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76028	Thank you. The answer to Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76029	Thank you. Well, my colleague Djakic, in order not to be misunderstood, I would really personally like to see many more solutions released and more families taken care of. But the numbers and the data are such that the simple state is, it's not good. I said before through a replica of my colleague Đurović, so if only 181 solutions were issued by 4.5 months last year and I don't think I know the package or 80 packages of construction material. Of course I don't blame the state office. They're stalking, they're just forming up. But I'd like those figures to be where and where better and better by the end of this year. But I repeat, the time to apply for the formation of the list will be only until summer. There comes summer, tendering, I don't know if there's going to be a tender for the award of construction material in the meantime, or if there's going to be a waiting list of how many numbers he's entitled to, he has no right. I also want to point out that I forgot through the debate that too few people who have a need for housing and have submitted requests are not familiar with the new procedure and I think we will have the next problem, that there will be too few families who will file for housing requirements in relation to the real need.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76030	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76031	Thank you very much. Comrade Box, you said that in the last two years little has been done, that almost none of the 10,000 applications submitted have received what was needed or expected to receive. I see the problem here, and from the strategy of this government that came to this problem, the way we look at it today in realisation. She removed this problem from one good ministry because it was obviously too heavy a burden for the prime minister but also for the vice president of the government. She formed an office. The office in rebalances loses funds, is needlessly further administered. What they were regional centres are now doing to state offices in the county. They see it for the first time, they wonder, they need to learn, and all this takes time and of course the results are what they are. Because the rest of that probably solution that required a little more effort and this kind of agreement that would make it easier to finance because the state then invested less money went into something completely new, and when it started all over again, it ended like this. Unsatisfactory those who need to resolve their question and dissatisfied all over the system because they cannot spend what is available to them. That's why rebalancing is taking away his funds. And what's even worse inside that strategy is going and she announced the change, i.e. repeal of the PPDS Act. One unreasonable decision, which by indexing, by simple indexation of municipalities or cities wants to equalise in the index war-torn areas or war-torn areas with other areas in the Republic of Croatia with a completely unreasonable decision. And then we wonder and talk the way we heard today why there's something empty out there, why there's no life out there, which is why jobs aren't opening up. It's a completely wrong strategy. It doesn't work out that way. There needs reason and a lot of effort. Unfortunately, the state office will not make it possible because the ministry is a politically strong body and the minister is the one to push it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76032	Replication response, Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76033	Thank you. Well, I agree. My personal attitude is also that I should not have singled out this office from the ministry. Why? I also mentioned earlier the Agency for Reconstruction, which since "Storm" worked here for a good number of years and most of the burden when rebuilding the infrastructure of family houses etc. She filed on her back with a small number of employees, and of course the special story is agreeing to abolishing the status of the area of special state concern. One Germany which is wherever and where more developed than the Republic of Croatia has given itself the right to pass a law based on the Solidarity Fund or as it is already called, does not matter until 2018 to invest in the former East Germany and to level the standard on municipal, social infrastructure, the general standard of citizens in this section in relation to western Germany. And we, a few years after the end of the Homeland War, are actually giving ourselves another adventure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76034	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76035	Thank you very much. A fellow Box, as far as I know, this regional housing programme agreement was signed in 2011. So, the former Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia spoke of it. As far as I understand from your presentation you have, you have a lot of objections that I agree with because you have been very clear, overly and without acuity discussing the differences that exist in certain categories of those who are running for this programme. You also mentioned members of the HVO who were discriminated against because of what you said. Many of them who have come to the Republic of Croatia by force of opportunities from Bosnia and Herzegovina are now moving to third countries, to overseas countries, to Canada, Australia, New Zealand, etc., many of them. And yet when you spoke of those returning from countries rightly seeking their private property to return to them, etc. or to be built. In some of them I know quite a number of them have not checked the data on the property or the state of property in the country from which they return to Croatia. I even know that many also rent houses in Croatia that have already been made. They rent them, and they live in another country. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76036	Replication response, Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76037	Thank you. Well, my colleague Boris said earlier that this is a complex issue and it really is a complex issue, and it can't be solved easily or simply. As far as the defenders are concerned, it is my own and their private opinion, but their status is indeed such that they are subject to criteria that are not the same for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who want to return from other countries, that is a fact. And that's why I'm pointing out that to change what doesn't make sense and that people don't have that status that they have. And as for eviction, unfortunately, we've already heard that it's moved out the last 2.5 years about 30,000 people and it's a truly devastating fact for all of us who live in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76038	And the closing word on behalf of the proposing head of the State Office, Mrs Mirela Stanic Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76039	I thank you all most sincerely for this active contribution you have made to this discussion, which is very important and very important. You have actually witnessed with your testimony the complexity of the problem of housing in the Republic of Croatia which still exists at the moment. You've opened up a broader issue that is really worth discussing in other places. The State Office shall carry out its activities under two basic laws, the Law on Reconstruction by which the programmes are actually brought to an end and the Law on areas of special state care. You all know that the Law on PPDS has been changed several times and until the last changes in 2013 have actually been constantly expanding the possibilities of housing but have not, unfortunately, been followed by sufficient financial resources. As a result, a large number of housing claims have emerged, and a major delay has also been created in solving the cases themselves. So on the one hand, the expectations of our citizens have risen, and on the other hand their discontent and bitterness have been raised because of the non-resolvement of the housing problems themselves. Amendments and additions to the PPDS Act have been introduced by administrative procedure in the resolution of housing requirements and only the first-degree resolution is replaced by the Offices of State Administration in Countys while the State Office as a legal successor of the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU Funds becomes a second-degree body. In this way, legal certainty and legal protection of users are actually raised for the reasons that their demands are now being resolved in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act, which among other things provides for a time-limit for resolving the case, but also opens, giving the possibility to appeal to those who are not satisfied with this solution. The offices of the state administration in the county and the competent administrative authority in the City of Zagreb have a 10-year experience in resolving the requirements for reconstruction that bring an end to it and we actually believe that this will be a natural continuation of their activities that they will master very quickly, they are already in the business and are on their way, they have issued over 300 solutions and in fact will speed up further solving of the cases themselves. Also, what is important to emphasize for the first time is actually the Annual Programme of Housing Management in the Republic of Croatia projected according to available budgets. Here I am using this opportunity at this point to actually give you an answer, Mr. Box, to ask you about the requirements for the assignment of construction material as one of the models that is very wanted in these areas, especially from younger families. We actually have over 400 mutually signed contracts on the donation of construction material at this point and it will be priority cases that will be resolved in 2014. The new deadline opens up opportunities for new users, but those who get solutions will enter the design process first and the outcome of the permits, the selection of performers, and we will actually have a picture of the required number for next year. What else would I like to say that you haven't actually said? The amendment of the PPDS Act also made an obligation to establish a list of housing users who will be created in accordance with the points achieved. The lists will be made public, transparent. They will be able to object from 1st to 31st05, and the 2014 list itself will be different from these earlier lists because it will no longer have former tenants, persons in collective accommodation, or those in state housing. For these categories of housing rights solutions will be carried out under official duty, and the state office will, in accordance with the available housing units and means, bring plans for their implementation. I must also point out that here is the debate that has somehow touched on this national programme that is very compatible with the regional housing programme that we are primarily planning to resolve users in housing that are bought by the basis of false powers, then those persons who are still located in private property and waiting for an operation while the state at the same time has an obligation to the owners by paying them a fee for the use of property. In fact, in the rebalancing process, in which we received an increase of slightly more than 13 million kuna, we also envisaged some of the funds for refunding costs to Croatian defenders who bought their own resources houses in state-owned property, and also some of the funds we have to pay to the users according to the powers of judgments, settlements and the like. After three years, we also managed to launch the Help Programme for the return of Croats to BiH through the department of construction material for the construction of family houses that stopped due to administrative procedures related to the release of VAT payments. Thus, in 2013 with some activities related to the establishment of the office and really extensive work on the handover of 30 thousand files in the offices of the state administration, most of which were refurbished 157 houses 4 to 6 degrees damages, paid 107 support from 1 to 3 categories, 70 users received a refund of their own funds for renovation, 919 sets of building materials were also delivered and 16 apartments and houses per list of priorities were awarded and 92 families of former tenant rights holders who had prior consent had actually received invitations to take over the keys of the apartment. We also started the process of renting assigned housing units, then giving them and selling them, and as a prerequisite for this, the procedures for recording ownership of the Republic of Croatia and in accordance with the amendments to the Law on Construction and Energy Certification of Buildings and Apartments that continue to be sold. With the current budgets for 2014, we plan to implement 290 solutions for the restoration of family homes and in the context of the implementation of the 2014 list, we plan to provide an indicative of 700 housing units. For former tenant rights holders through the national component, we plan to provide 385 housing units. It has already been mentioned several times, only 20 apartments of the Agency for Legal Traffic of Real estate will be bought while the rest will be realised through the rehabilitation and restoration of devastated state-owned dwellings, renovation and construction of residential buildings and the model of the award of construction material and the revision of the existing housing fund. In conclusion, I'm just going to look back at a few of the elements that you mentioned, which relate to the framework agreement itself, the amount we're talking about is the amount of 10.9 million euros that our national contribution of 25% is going to. I also had a question as to why the funding rate was so high when it came to the Republic of Croatia, the answer I received was that it was actually related to the cost of housing in the Republic of Croatia which is significantly higher than the costs in the BiH, Montenegro and Serbia. The very dynamics of withdrawing these funds will go according to our realisation of our programs as you heard in the opening presentation, these are three construction projects of building buildings, i.e. home for old and powerless persons and in accordance with the actual dynamics of the performance of our contribution of 25% will be paid while the apartments actually have a different situation depending on at which point that purchase will be done. So, on the one hand, we didn't get, we didn't take too much of a bite to do anything unlike other faster than simply our nature of projects is like that, and on the other hand, we want this program and this problem to actually end up in the Republic of Croatia as soon as possible. I would just not like to comment on these recommendations on the abolition of refugee status, however, I would like to say this at this time that the confirmation of refugee status is not required as a prerequisite for participation and for the adoption of a solution to the right to housing, neither in the national nor in the regional housing programme, and as far as confirmation of not having any property is concerned, we are looking for it in either programme and in another programme, and we are completely equal to all. The consultants there are a lot on this program are not paying by means of the national budget. Complete activities are carried out by us in a state office where a project implementation unit is actually established, employees do not receive any additional fees for engagement on this programme. They're doing it parallel to their daily activities. What we actually get further is this technical assistance that we appreciate is very important to us because it helps us in some way to improve our national programme and also explore the future of programming housing, social housing that would be financed from structural funds. The urgency of the procedure is explained in the very bill so that it would not. And here is the conclusion, the activities of the final solution to the remaining housing problems of refugees, exiles and returnees should be accepted by all stakeholders in our society as a common interest and goal. The objective is certainly to contribute significantly to this regional housing programme that brought representatives of all four countries in the region to the same table, while opening up the possibility for people to declare whether they want to return or integrate in the countries where they live. So I hope I've been able to answer most of your questions. For what I'm not, I leave it at my disposal for individual consultations. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76040	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76041	Final proposal of the Law on the validation of the framework agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe on the regional housing programme, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 638. The final draft of the law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I note that most of the 93 votes with and 4 abstentions have been adopted by the Law confirming the framework agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe on a regional housing programme in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76042	We will discuss today - Annual Report of the Financial Agency for 2012 The Reportor is the Supervisory Board of the Financial Agency based on Article 21. The Financial Agency Act. You've received the material. The government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, and his report was received at the session. Introducing the report from the chairman of the financial agency's management, Mrs. Angelka Bunetta, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76043	Dear Vice-Presidents, MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, you have an annual report on the business of the Financial Agency for 2012 and allow me to say in short lines what I consider to be the most important. Our business took place in two basic business segments. The first segment of business for the financial industry is corporate clients and others are business for the state and business that we have done on the basis of public authority. This amounts to 67% of the commercial business and 23% of the business income for the state and the foundation of public authority and 10% of the citizens. In 2012, it was also the year in which the period of application of the FINA transition strategy for the period 2009-2012, with the implementation of which FINA made a turn in business and launched trends in positive financial operations. As part of the transition strategy, a programme was implemented to provide extra employees in 2010, separate cash transactions in a special company of the Daughter and a strict control of costs and investments was introduced. During 2012, we recapitalised the company Daughter Fina GS, adopted a restructuring and consolidation programme that already resulted in a positive financial result during the first year of application, which we are extremely proud of for saving 480 jobs. The fact that the Republic of Croatia has joined the EU has been used to adopt the best European and world practices we have implemented in our new innovation strategy, which is intended for the period from 2013 to 2017. Our goal is to focus more on services with a high degree of added value that we are able to provide through our business network throughout Croatia because we are present at local levels. Of course, not neglecting the traditional affairs of FINA as long as there is demand on the market. In the report, we gave a detailed list of jobs marked in 2012 so that they would not look back on them. In particular, I would like to stress that, in addition to supporting the implementation of all services and activities in the business sectors, we have carried out the most significant activities in the consolidation of IT support and overall rationalisation of the costs of FINA operations in 2012. I'd only make a few of the most significant indicators of business. In 2012, FINA made total revenue of 777/7 million kuna, expenditure of 708.7 million kuna. Compared to 2011, revenues are lower by 5% and expenditure is lower by 7%. These indicators contributed to a gross profit of HRK 69 million, which is 29% higher than the profits achieved in 2011. Regular incomes of FINA in traditional jobs such as payment services, NKS, incomes from the population year by year are falling, and it is not easy to substitute new jobs on which we continuously work. For example. It is possible to pay Maestro, Mastercard cards of all issuers, to increase demand for digital certificates and to use electronic services such as e-account, e-signature, time stamp. The revenue in that segment was increased by 94% but it was not enough to resuscitate this fall in income from our traditional jobs. Despite the increase in the number of transactions in the NKS compared to 2011 there was a significant decline in income if we were obliged to apply a new price list from 1.1.2012., which reduced the basic price of payment transactions by 20%. This is equal to the price of the processing of payment transactions for all accounting cycles and the incremental method of accounting is applied. A new price policy has come to meet the needs and wishes of banks as the most significant business clients of FINA and to remain competitive in view of the opening of the EU market. In other segments of business, FINA can also say that in 2012, it has set a kind of turning point for the open market and for the creation of competitive foundations of all the structural parts of FINA and as FINA as a whole, and such a shift is read from the structure of our customers because in 2012, the share of income as I have already said from legal persons in total income was 67%, the share of revenues from the users of the state budget is 23% and from natural persons 10%. If we look at the expenditures in 2012 we see that they are smaller by 7% compared to 2011. This had the greatest impact of reducing financial extraordinary expenditures by 37%, reducing depreciation costs 17, reducing staff costs 5%. In the total expenditure structure, staff costs accounted for 45%, material costs 30%, depreciation costs 12 and other operating costs 8%. She would only say a few words about significant business processes in addition to 2012, which marked it, which is, above all, the implementation of forced payment transactions, which is the basis for payment or implementation of the Act on the implementation of the implementation of the budget implementation. According to the FINA law, all payment bases are delivered at 23 locations. At 134 locations in the business network, in accordance with the Regulation on the manner and procedure of implementation of the cash performance in FINA, the opening of a special account for the payment of fees and amounts excluded from the application of the so-called ‘. those protected accounts. In mid-2012, the new Implementing Law allowed the direct collection of monetary claims through the FINA on the basis of powerful judicial and executive decisions, decisions and decisions of courts, and directly through the FINA workers who are not paid by employers on the basis of which they are confirmed by employers. During 2012, FINA's locations of 4 regional centres, 22 branches and 143 branches were processed million 333 thousand and 28 payment bases and a million 350 thousand 866 inflows. As part of the ongoing activities related to business forced collection during 2012 745 thousand 934 items of forced collection were received and processed. By observing the movement of operational profits of business networks, the largest operating profit per worker was achieved by the branch of Zagreb, followed by Šibenik, Split and Zadar, while the branch offices Karlovac, Slavonski Brod, Gospić, Sisak and Požega achieved a negative result. So if we look at our entire network of 143 businesses, we're going to say five negative results, so we're not that bad. As regards investments in several lines, they focused mostly on restoring and expanding capacity in IT segments in line with the start-up of IT consolidation and the completion of earlier start-up investments in construction facilities. The total investments in 2012 amounted to €48.4 million in IT equipment of €30 million and €10 million in construction works. I would especially point out that in 2012, we allocated 1.4 million kuna to the education of employees to acquire new knowledge and skills, so education in higher, Master's degree, doctorate. That 70 employees went into school we'll say and 1300 workers went to professional training to obtain the necessary certificates to perform certain parts of jobs mainly in IT because we compete and... public tenders, and then it is necessary to contribute this as evidence of human skills and expertise. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A special chapter in our report is dedicated to risk management and this special event and after the balance sheet date. One chapter refers to quantification indicators of business involving the two most significant segments because they were and last year told us that it would be good to show, so we put everything inside. It's the processing of cash and security orders and the processing of cash through payments and payments of all our clients. Here's so much from me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76044	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Nadica Jelas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76045	Honored vice presidents, esteemed presidents of the FINA administration, respected colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. So this is the first report of the new FINA administration appointed in 2012. In 2012, we can freely say this important year for FINA for several reasons. In 2012 it was 10 years since for FINA the historic moment when payment traffic migrated from FINA to business banks and FINA lost its 50-year monopoly over the conduct of payment turnover in the country and, of course, its primary source of income. As of 2012, the period of implementation of the FINA transition strategy in 2009-2012 was completed, so important four-year, important four-year period during which the FINA was restructured was implemented by the Excess staff management programme, separate transactions with cash in cash in a special company of the daughter of FINA cash services d.o.o. which is in the meantime and be recapitalised. One word made a thorough turn-off in business resulting in a turn-off as said by the chairman of the administration of a multi-annual trend in a negative financial result in a positive result. We can say that after 10 years of losing her most important job, therefore the payment turnover of FINA established and strengthened its market position. Also in 2012 a new five-year strategy for the period 2013-2017 was planned. This strategy was adopted at the beginning of 2014 so this year and its backbone is a further implementation of advanced IT solutions, i.e. the creation of services with a high level of added value and further positioning on the electronic services market. In the implementation of this strategy, FINA will rely on the use of its major comparative advantages, so I will list them. Therefore, it is a branched business network that ensures full national coverage of FINA's services. It is a long-standing good relationship on the one hand with business banks and on the other hand the state, it is a specific extremely valuable information "nou how" with the ability to implement these advanced IT solutions and it is ultimately but certainly no less important professionalism in performing a job resulting from traditional client confidence. Croatia's entry into the European Union is also an additional positive moment for FINA, as it opens up the possibility of regional performance, partnership with partners across the European Union and the adoption of best European practice in its trade. And now a few words about the most important business events for FINA in 2012. First of all, FINA was confirmed in 2012 as a reliable partner to the state in a number of very demanding projects of national importance. Thus, for the implementation of the law on fiscalisation in cash, the tax administration, we remember, has chosen a model based on digital certificates. FINA carried out business records of the fiscalization bond and realised the so-called. XmlSigner for electronic signing intended for companies that developed software for fiscalization. The FINA Regional Centres are also involved in the process of implementing the pre-departure agreement. FINA is also engaged in an important project of centralised salary and human resources management in the public sector, etc. The COP, which will ensure that salaries are accounted for under uniform rules for all public sector institutions as well as quality reporting on paid salaries. Assumption of the functioning of the COP system was the establishment of a register of employees in the public sector in which the personnel data of 240 thousand employees for a total of 2220 institutions were entered, so we finally know the exact number of public sector employees. Certain problems related to the establishment of employee registers also conditioned a slowdown in the dynamics of the implementation of the COP so that the inclusion of the first group of institutions, i.e. tax administrations and customs administrations and all ministries in the COP system was carried out in early 2013. Given the high government's expectations of the COP as a key instrument for the control of salaries in the state and public sector, there were certain objections to the FINA precisely regarding the dynamics of the involvement of state and public institutions in the COP. However, at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, we received an explanation from the chairman of the administration, which led to this slowdown. So it's definitely not FINA's fault. In accordance with the amendments to the laws on commercial societies through the FINA service quickly.hr, it is possible to set up simple companies with limited liability so-called.v. j.d.o.o. with the lowest underlying capital of 10 kuna. The interest was quite large because of simple paperwork and low costs. A total of 3168 companies were founded in 2012. As regards the application of the new Law on Payments, which is in line with the European Payment Services Directive FINA produced an application for the entry of data from the forms HUP 3 and HUP 3A with the standardised form of the number of accounts, i.e. The IBAN shall ensure that domestic payment turnover is included in the European Monetary Community. The entry into force of the new Implementing Act allows for the direct collection of cash claims on the basis of powerful judicial and executive decisions, judgments or solutions so that workers who do not pay salaries can also be charged through the FINA. FINA is also acting under the Government Regulation on the mandatory payment of contributions to payment of salaries in force from 1 May 2012. All clients who submit payment orders and do not pay contributions shall be entered in the list of employers who do not pay contributions. Furthermore, the Ministry of Finance used the demarcation of FINA's business network for the sale of vouchers for seasonal work in agriculture under the Law to encourage the employment of seasonal workers on temporary and occasional jobs in agriculture, so one order was introduced. FINA is a certificate issuer for the pilot project e-ID card of the Ministry of Administration. Also established is the Regiment Register and the Bianco debtors for carrying out the audit on money. The adaptation of the REGOS system for the introduction of a single record form and the collection of all receipts has been prepared. That's what we were talking about, that's that JOPPD form. A contract was concluded on renting a business space with the Agricultural Payments Agency and a number of other business and activities were realised or realised. And now, in the end, just a few sentences about the financial result in 2012. The total revenues were therefore made in the amount of 778 million kuna and the expenditure of 709 million. Compared to a year earlier in 2011 and revenues and expenditures were reduced, however, as expenditures increased or reduced more intensively than income, this had a positive impact on both the financial and the overall financial result so that gross profits increased compared to 2011 and amounted to €69 million. In 2011, it amounted to 53 million kuna. The decline in income in 2012 was conditioned by a 14% reduction in income, an even stronger fall of 34% of the national... system's revenue despite the increase in transactions. The decline in the income of the NKS is conditioned by the application of the new price list in agreement with banks, i.e. the reduction in the price of business transactions in the NKS by 20%. A similar situation is with archive and documentation jobs, and they recorded a decline in income by 12%, despite the increase in the number of clients. By 25%, the revenues from the sale of data from financial and statistical accounts of business entities have also been reduced. For the purpose of this example, the decline in revenue from the sale of credit rating information is a direct consequence of amendments to the Public Procurement Act which no longer provide for the obligation to demonstrate the financial capacity of the competitor. On the other hand, the biggest increase in revenue has been achieved from the operations of the implementation of the budget implementation. Likewise, what is really important for the prominent, as much as 94% of the revenues from electronic services have been increased. So it's about the e-account, the e-signature and the digital certificates, first of all from the fiscalization. So FINA is the Croatian leader in this area and this is obviously the FINA's strongest perspective. When I mention FINA's perspective, then it is necessary to remember some of her weaknesses as well. The biggest weakness of FINA in me, which could prove to be a kind of limiting factor in increasing its competitiveness, is the structure of employees. In fact, even a third of the employees are older now than 50 years old. It is also an unfavourable fact that over 60% of total employees have medium professional equipment or some of the qualifications, 23% have high and 15% higher professional equipment. From what we heard from the management president, it is evident that FINA invests a lot in the education of employees, but I personally must note that these investments are not evenly distributed by branches and lower organisational parts, just as they are not evenly distributed or invested in space and in job equipment, which has also been said and these funds are also significant. Namely, some branches lack basic equipment or are largely written off, from manual cash registers to accounting machines, printers and the like. Given that the professionality and quality of the work done, as I was saying at the outset, the comparative advantages of FINA should be ensured by the conditions that jobs are done as well in each and the lowest, least of all places because the chain is just as strong as its weakest link is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76046	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76047	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Jelash, you said something in the first part of your debate, then you denied yourself later in the second part. So you said years of negative business. Look, 2010. FINA worked with the biggest profit, in 2011 the profit fell something so in 2012, it grew again, so FINA has been operating for the past three years after the restructuring and resolution of surplus employees' problems with profits. Therefore, there is no word about multi-annual negative business because it is simply positive. But also later in my debate, I'm going to look a little more at the amount and what's taking part in it. However, also the central salary account has not yet been revived and will not soon be revived. Therefore, talking about finally knowing the number of employees is simply not true. Central salary bill was applied, actually prepared for use. Why didn't the Ministry feed him with the data in 2012, that's another pair of shoes, which can be checked in FINA.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76048	Replication response, Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76049	Dear colleague Schuker, so when I mentioned the multiannual negative financial result, I was just thinking about the pre-2010 period. The fact that for several years, FINA showed a negative financial result. Now he is positive and I am glad that in 2012 he even increased compared to 2011 and is positive as we know in 2013. As far as the COP is concerned, I don't know, I really can't judge how much preparation was made for its operation. But this government is really doing everything that the sooner it works, in part, the more it does. So, as we know, both tax and customs were introduced. And I'm saying that actually thanks to this project, we're really going to find out what the number of public service employees is and what their salaries are and we're going to be able to control them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76050	On behalf of the HDSSB's representative, Krešimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76051	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, dear Mrs. Bunetta. Here's looking at the Annual Report of the Financial Agency for 2012, I was already worried you'd never get in line, but it was the first number 20 points, then 14, then 9, then 22, so who on the lot is your lucky number 3. But why am I saying that? At the end of the third month 2014, we are discussing the 2012 report, and here we already know that statistics 33 are already the first for 2014. Therefore, the report comes a little late for the debate, and I think the agenda should take care of itself. Vice President, please take advantage of your position, so here are the financial reports so we're not too late to discuss them much earlier. Because with time running out, they're getting a little old for us, and we're expecting to discuss it in 2013. But looking at your report first of all, I want to congratulate you on the good result for 2012. I know that one part of you belongs because your responsibility started somewhere in the second month of 2012. And that is the key reason why the HDSSB will raise its hand for the report, because we are voting for the result of the financial business that is really strong positive even though there was a debate earlier. Mr. Shucker said the exact number. It means that in 2010, it was positive, 2011, 2012. But the biggest dubiosis was in 2009 minus 158 million, and also in 2008 was minus 24 million. So, looking back over the past few years, a lot has been done in FINA and around FINA. But surely when we want reliable information then we look at business Croatia, but also the reports of FINA that are very important to us during the debate on any material. Therefore, these are useful data. But it's also important I would say and look at all these reports that we get from all businesses, institutions, etc. I think there's got to be a splinter that comes to Parliament so we don't have any data left. Let's say I'll say right away. If FINA invests in FINA cash service d.o.o. and I would like to see in this report the fina cash service d.o.o. Business, so then I'd say that business is as negative as 5 million and 582000 per 81 million income, 87 million expenditure. And that's the problem. But in these reports, I believe that everything that is in the system of the FINA should be fully included, and the FINA cash service d.o.o. is also in the system. But looking at this report, which I have thoroughly read, the report seems to me to be such a big deal, although I must admit that it is a company that employs and earns between 30 in the Republic of Croatia and which is scheduled to go to the stock market tomorrow. Here's hoping that soon, the FINA of ours will be on the stock market. But looking at this report, I will immediately resent you looking at the title and looking at the content, looking at the report says, for example, that on page 41, there should be an investment report, and when we look at the content itself, it's on page 40. And these kind of grudges could talk about them right now. But much more important is whether the investment plan for 2012 has been met. But he's not filled. It's in this amount that you've been talking about, but I think it's not enough when we're talking about information technologies and all the demands that are being put before FINA. And now you're going to be in a situation where Minister Linic is going to withdraw your profits and you haven't actually invested in modernization, although I would like you to answer that question whether it happened in 2013 in a more powerful form or not. But looking at this activity report is important. But what matters is what the monetary effects are. At first, there are new jobs that are being done without any monetary effects, and I would like us to know in the Assembly what activities have been so resourceful for the state, which are indeed determined by the financial effects. And that sentence burned my ear on page 26 to meet banks, their needs and desires. I think that too often we meet not only you as FINA, but even us as a Parliament, and even the whole state right to banks and the financial sector to serve their needs and wishes. But that's why I'm saying it. I'd like you in the structure to give us a clear statement of what this was cardifice and what had a financial effect. Looking at the structure you just talked about, so business, for the state, business decreased 8.3%, natural persons increased over 8%, and legal persons decreased volume 8.2%. I'm sure that's what I'm worried about is whether it's a sign of inactivity or something? But also when we look at the statistics of the warrant, it is clear that the way we do business has become more and more modern since 2003, with 107 thousand we have come to 49 thousand warrants. Speaking of cash, it's 198 million, now 44 million. So, it's obvious that less and less is done with cash, the non-cash traffic is also significant. But it is important to say and link this part of the FINA report to the FINA cash services. Because we know that cash is expensive to deliver to banks etc. And I'm sure FINA needs to take her share of the cake because she's serving business banks, so I'd like your answer to that part, too. But you also point out that a part of the funds or a million, almost 500 thousand kuna in education, was being directed, but I wish it were evenly at the level of all regions. So, you're... at the 4 regional center, but I wish that education was at the 4 regional center. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But you also suggest that collective agreements are respected. I have information, so I'd like you to answer if the workers filed a lawsuit, perhaps due to an unpaid regression? That's what I'm interested in, too. Because seeing as they do not pay off and do not respect collective agreements and also that less went into investments might also be a sign of a more significant positive result. I'm also interested in whether the awards for successful projects have been paid? We're all witnesses and those captains where we can't pay overtime, too, if it goes beyond that bonus, and I know in FINA that some of your people are working on projects a lot more than a captain's permit. So here's how, in what way are you trying to interest me in these people in some way and pay those who worked on your projects a lot more than a captain? Also, what bothered me is your 2013-2017 Strategy. We are already here in 2014, I would like to work in Croatia on all the EU financial framework strategies, but I would like to ask only an explanation of whether this strategy is operational and when it is completed? Because it is unacceptable for me to say today that there will be a strategy from 2013-2017 that reads in your report. I know that politics is being set up by the director or director of FINA, that often here are the personnel of certain political groups. It's said one of these is one of those, but it's just important that the people of the FINA who have worked for years to get the chance that they can progress in the system independently of politics. But also looking at the number of workers who were 4336 in 2008, we are now at 3068. I see you hired 47 new people last year. So here's what were the needs of what regional centres? That's what I'm interested in, too. Now, the one thing that's been mentioned is the performance. We often have citizens complaining that they have been completed without getting a warning. It's a problem that often happens to us on the ground, people come in, they want to get through the card, they're done and they haven't even been warned. They don't know who and then they call it FINA, they're leaving and they're practically found and we all know that a good part of the citizens is focused exactly on card business, etc. When it hits like lightning from the blue sky, that's the problem. You're at a gas station somewhere, and you don't have any cash, you run out of gas, etc., you can't go any further. It may be one of those better scenarios, but you have a lot worse ones. Therefore, I believe that this very reminder must be important. Same as when we're talking about the Regiment Register here. I'm sorry about those old tenants they got when they made the deal so they don't get new dues today, and the pig picks aren't worth it. Now, that's the same problem that happens to us with the economy. Therefore, I would like to ask that answer. I may also miss a part of the report a little bit about that strategy that I mentioned, which is in the next time what is planned to be left to the banks, which is the core business that fina herself is trying to keep in the next time. So I think there's a need for an answer. I am also interested in preparing what is often said in public these days, and these are pre-emptive settlements. So how long is the preparation of the pre-determined link itself and how many do we have in Croatia and what are the effects? Maybe if you can evaluate it from the level of FINA. Because what we often hear in the field is that just those unhealthys are killing the healthy, right through pre-warrant deals. We are at the HDSSB club believing that we have a big problem in the economy, and as we have today's FINA report, I think you as FINA are quite competent to deliver a full report on pre-departure settlements in the Republic of Croatia and what happens to pre-departure deals, with statistics? Who's been rejected? What companies have they been through? Let's see who it's written off to and why it's written off, especially when we're talking about state income taxes. Also, about the issues that the media is asking you, and we are asking ourselves in the Parliament, what is the number of accounts in the blockade, legal and physical persons and their volume? It is evident that from day to day there is an increasing number of natural persons in the blockade. Well, maybe it would be good if we had that information, too, the account number in the blockade, the natural and legal persons. Also, looking at individual branches, it is logical that Zagreb did the best work. We see Split, Zadar, Osijek is somewhere in the middle. I am pleased to see that average, but what you will be doing with Karlovac, Brod, Gospić, Sisak so that this business and these branches will be positive. But I have another question that's important to me, which I read on one portal that the FINA cash service set up a detective's agency, so I'm curious what you know about it, when a man reads it, then he wonders what kind of state we live in when the FINA cash service can set up a detective agency even though maybe around that cash service in 2010 was a negative result of 4 million, 2011. 17 million and I say 2012. Five million and 500, so I'd like the answer to that. I hope on Friday there will be a vote on the FINA report because usually if there is no Friday vote then we know what comes next by the ruling but here you are praised for the report and we will commend you here for the result. In the report I say there are these adjustments but also content that we want to complete, documents but that you may inform us of your final word on these questions which I have also referred to you. And perhaps with those other costs, you should have explained a little bit better why the 8 million growth in other costs, the 55 million kunas you had. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76052	Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76053	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Bubalo, you've noticed and here I am reading these materials that there's a difference as to how you would say regional. In fact, on page 37, when you look at the ranking table of operational profit per business network worker in the last two years, then you see that in the last eight, so the last eight of the 22 offices of fina Vukovar, Slavonski Brod and Požega, are three out of eight. And when you look at both Slavonia and Baranja, yes, and when you look at the page of the 39th rank of branch revenues in the business network of FINA, then from 14 places to 22 there are Slavonski Brod, Vinkovci, Nasice, Vukovar and Požega, so all Slavonic except Osijek, which is but also for Osijek to say something. In 2011 and 2012 with a higher income than the branch in Osijek, you find the results precisely from this aspect of which you said there was one regional difference and in fact all of this is pictured in the fiscal capacities of our counties, in the poor fiscal capacities of the counties of Slavonia, Srijem and Baranja, so that it is seen by the business of FINA and its branches in Slavonia and Baranja. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76054	Replication response, Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76055	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic, I believe, is the secret of this good result, one part of the secret of this good result is in the regional division of FINA's work at the 4 regional centres. Therefore, this should be a pattern and a way of doing business for other institutions in the Republic of Croatia, and this particular regionalisation leads to more efficiency, and this is precisely what the FINA itself is doing. But just by looking at the development coefficient that we often talk about and looking at FINA's business in branches across Slavonia and Baranja other than Osijek which is slightly more developed then we can say that Slavonia and Baranja is quite underdeveloped and this is seen by these indicators as well as by all other parameters when we talk income per capita in individual budgets, when we talk about GDP, when we talk about a lot of these parameters. Croatia should therefore be regionalised but we must also have a fund of alignment that would especially help Slavonia and Baranja, which is in the most difficult position and also show these figures.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76056	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76057	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Madam President of the Board, colleagues and colleagues. So in my debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, I will begin by quoting a document of the government of September 2012 for the simple reason that we all see together that it is not good to give reckless opinions and views because in principle, when something is set up, it gives results and I will talk about it later. But I just have to read this because that's what I was talking about when I was just talking about the 2011 report. The most significant project of the Financial Agency in 2011 is the implementation of a system of forced payment, the basis for payment which, in accordance with the Act, since the implementation of the implementation of the budget implementation of NN 99/2010. introduce a higher degree of financial discipline and accountability. So much for it being horrible and messy and now everything's beautiful and beautiful. But it says, however, the government of the Republic of Croatia points out that a number of projects that the Financial Agency was to implement in 2011 failed. First of all, the project to establish a register of public sector employees whose aim was to pool data on all employees. To this day, we don't have a central salary account. Also, the government of the Republic of Croatia points out that it has not revived the Quick HR project, the company's creation process has not been accelerated and I am now interested in whether in 2012 it revived the Quick HR project and the Financial Agency's own real estate and rental of space, etc. and, in the end, taking into account all of the above, the Government of the Republic of Croatia gives a negative opinion on the annual report on FINA’s business for 2011. And when you look at the government's 2011 opinion, you only have one sentence. But that's not the reason, and I intend to criticise this report on FINA's 2012 work, I just had to say that you see how the same people view the same thing as the diametric opposite. So, FINA has been through a very painful year since 2002 and even there until 2009 because someone simply took the payment turnover of FINA and served it to business banks and practically took their means of life, so to speak. FINA lived, worked programs, worked a strategy, and then it was in principle known what Finna wanted to do because if it hadn't been done then, if things hadn't been prepared from the infrastructure, from the equipment, etc., be sure that the 2012 report wouldn't have been like this. Why? Well, because it's just that all these jobs wouldn't have anyone to deal with and have nothing to do with them. That's two basic things. Because it's impossible in 2011, you heard what the government said, now in 2012 everything wonderful and wonderful. So, such a FINA after all it's been through today is one company that is stable, a company that is being looked at by the government when you look at all of your most significant projects with which it boasts and... Could the fiscalization and FINA conduct a fiscalization that this company was a ruin in 2011? It's not. Could pre-warrant deals have been conducted in a company that was a wreck in the previous year, and there was nothing they could do about it? It's not. And a series of other things. But when you look at a company like this, it is best to look into its financial report, and then you will simply see the trends that are happening and even what your colleague Bubalo has been saying about incomes by certain units of FINA simply show what economic activities are and what unfortunately the standard of living of these citizens is. From this you can also read a blood count, financial citizens and the economy of the Republic of Croatia, no one when you look at it, no one else has to say anything, he's just who he is. Because Zagreb has no chance of being in the middle and even putting it on average it will be the first. But also when you look at the total incomes of FINA in 2012, then you will see that they are almost 70 million kunas less than in 2010 and 40 million kunas less than in 2012. The expenditures have also been reduced, but when we talk about spending cuts, I am one of those who never wants to get in half on financial reports. So just look at one item, depreciation. In 2010, it was 112 million, and in 2012. Eighty-three million, so 30 million is less depreciation, and when you look that it wasn't that much depreciation, then the profit would be a little less. So you should look at it that way. However, amortisation funds are funds for future investments because simply depreciation is calculated in some cycles per rate, as someone assesses or has such accounting policy and these funds are used to restore outdated equipment, editing in fact buildings and all together, therefore it is necessary to see why this depreciation is reduced so much and if this depreciation is so reduced, whether problems will arise in the functioning of FINA assets, real estate and above all real estate are not a problem. I mean, when we talk about FINA, then we just have to talk about IT equipment because it's simply a tool in the hands of FINA, and when we talk about the other part, which is the education of people because the qualification structure of employees in FINA, age, is not a problem, that we understand, but education and qualifications are what gives room to tomorrow and when young people come to have them who train them and that they will have someone to guide what they should do. But in order for all this to be done together, the government has to make it clear how FINA sees tomorrow, from one document, I wonder what the 2013 report will be, it is not seen from 2012. Why? The government's ad hoc key projects of its praise shifted to performing FINA, and even to the FINA, it conspired to do something that had to be done by the judiciary, which is pre-warrant agreements. So, the government simply has to say that there are certain intensities that the tax administration and customs administration should have their own information system, and since the government has two strong IT institutions, one is developing in the former system in one direction, and the other is now asking one elemental question, how does the government see the future of APIS and FINA tomorrow? How does he see their mutual cooperation, not each other's competition, why? Because neither of us, I'm going to talk about it a little later, without financial resources and without... with the government I can't exist and I can't function. So that's something, one question the government is going to have to answer in the next year, without that answer, is going to create a lot of problems because we're not discussing the 2013 report now, but we're talking about 2014, but I have to say something. Here we talked about that form of JOPDD, as it is already called, so the pattern that brings complete information has helped entrepreneurs because they no longer have to submit 5 or 10 forms than in one form, but at this point the information system and the APIS and the FINA has been overstretched, precisely because a series of data needs to be collected, it needs to be stored, and it simply shows that the government has to think strategically, but the question is, another big procedure so that the whole system doesn't fall. So when we talk about these reports, when we talk about financial indicators, then we really have to ask ourselves what to do in the next period because if we don't look at these reports in that way, if we don't read them with all their positive negative elements through these numbers that show up, then simply some of the problems will find us, as they found us in 2003, when someone simply ad hoc abolished payment traffic and 5,000 employees in the ZAP then, you get to know how you know. And why am I saying that? So I'm talking for the simple reason that when you look at the revenues of the state, actually, FINA, then you'll see that unfortunately there's a trend that's negative and it needs to be talked about openly, not because of the criticism of the FINA report, but to be warned. This trend is likely to continue in 2014 perhaps more intensively, which is that the sector of services for the financial industry and cooperative clients compared to 2010 has dropped 130 million or has fallen almost 25.26%. However, when you look at how much the service sector has grown for the public sector, it has grown practically by 100 million kuna and when we add it all together we are still 30 million in minus. And it is evident that with this number of employees and these fixed costs that FINA has that there have been no new jobs for the state even though looking realistically from this financial report I think these jobs are not all even charged adequately, and we will see this in the 2013 report. FINA would find herself in trouble and I'm scolding it. FINA would not have if you looked at that account block revenue practically rose from zero to about 90 million kuna in 2012 and you didn't have that 90 million kuna of the performance and the cost of implementation we would be discussing today a negative financial result. And I'm going back to that government just has to determine what it wants from Finna. If FINA wants to be her IT service to run it all together she has to direct it in what direction FINA is going because look at me when I read that government report last year then it is evident that the government's negative opinion was exclusively to replace the old administration. Who says a report like that won't blow up and will give it away next year and replace the administration that had purely correct results for reasons why someone didn't do something? So when we look at the structure of expenditure then we will see that services and material costs are very high, they make up practically a third of the expenditure, but I repeat, depreciation costs are extremely high and we should see in principle what with the great assets that FINA has in very attractive places in the biggest centres, given that the financial institution is a pity that these spaces are gaping. Whether to connect it in a certain way with the Post Office Bank so as to raise it in such a way or simply commercially think, there are a number of business banks that would welcome such a space or such a place, above all, as regards services with citizens who still today are pilgrimages and likely to pay daily bills in principle go through the FINA most. Why? Because I don't want to advertise them the cheapest and that's the logical thing and maybe that's the future of a part of the job that 1 or 2 counters in that office are doing just that job because just one big part of our citizens want to pay in that way. But it is also necessary to think and think that this space may be better used. However, when we look at the centre of public sector services, then you will see that what is therefore a system that is supporting... is constantly about 100 million kuna. REGOS has fallen from about 90 to 60 and I say the Centre for Forced Charge 93 million kuna compared to 2010 when it was zero, but 2010. 130 million was more revenue than the private sector, so there are no these costs with the state. I'm interested in next year's fiscalisation item on the pre-demand settlement item and the rest of how much of it will be in the FINA's income table. Why? If all services can be charged, then you should see just as much as these services cost. Also when we talk about financial indicators and the results of FINA, then you will see that in 2010 the year was without competition the most successful for the simple reason when you see the relationship gain, the debt is so-called. EBIT, you will see that it was 21 on the total income of 21.5% in 2010, 19.3 2011., 17.8 in 2012, and it is easy to point out this negative trend in income and it must be thought about it because of all the bad times that occurred not by the blame of the ZAP and the people in the ZAP then, rather than because someone had imposed it, and the state must experience from all this together that if it imposes certain laws and if one part of the business is left to the private sector then it must very much think about what will be this. And it would be very interesting to see what is going on with the cash center for the simple reason to see at this point how much cash goes through the cash centre of FINA, and how much it goes through the cash centres of business banks because, realistically looking at some standards in Europe, then Croatia is too small for a large cash centre, not that we have 4.5 cash centres, and I think there's one big chance of FINA because business banks certainly don't pay them to have it at some appropriate price for FINA. So we have no reason not to support this financial report because ultimately we all participated in these results that are what they are but would never comment as the Government commented, so she jumped into her own mouth for 2012.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76058	Thank you. Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76059	A fellow Shuker left a question about whether HItro had worked.HR worked so we all feel HItro.HR worked just not seeing it very strongly on the economy to feel it. But looking at Table 28 then you see for 2012 that 717 thousand 866 kuna was spent, so this sign is likely to have worked. But again, looking at the statistics that in 2011, there were 3.5 thousand kunas spent, and at the end of the table, it says that the increase is 100%. Well, I'm surprised for FINA that percentage if we can count the percentages then we see that a much larger amount has been spent. Therefore, fellow Shuker HItro.HR must have worked because as soon as he spent his money, there's one more thing I'd like to rephrase to you. You said the result probably amortized her. Yeah, they cut it down. Now is this a sign that accelerated depreciation is small before it related to informational power equipment so now they're not buying anything new, so they've taken this one out, and I'd like to hear what's the reason and cut the amount for depreciation. Because the depreciation and reduction of investments must have affected the business outcome. But what I would disagree with you, I would like to replicate to you, I think you need at least four cash centres at the level of Croatia, looking at such regional ones. Croatia is not large by number of legal persons and by number of natural persons but Croatia is territorially quite long and these four cash centres are needed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76060	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76061	Thank you very much. I'll go in the back. I didn't mean four cash centres as four legal entities, how the cash centre will be organised in this collection and distribution of cash by machines it's his business but looking at how much the total amount, mass, almost money with which Croatia is operated then a cash centre is too, realistically looking. But if you do, set up units in three or four parts of Croatia with regard to Croatia's transport connection, then it can work. So, I'm saying for the reason that the manipulation of cash is extremely expensive and it's the most expensive payment, cash is the most expensive because you have to physically take it, bring it, set it, etc. And any additional administration costs a terrible deal. And let's say that when he leaves Zagreb to Bajakov then he goes with four vans and only goes left, right, and picks up everything he needs and returns as well. Therefore, this is to be discussed quickly, however.hr is certainly one of the most valuable projects FINA has done and I am extremely sorry that someone has simply interrupted it. I am extremely sorry that if this project had continued, perhaps today, in many administrative obstacles, they would not have spoken. Just like those scissors from which many laughed and those scissors were just meant to end a series of ridiculous legal regulations, regulations and regulations that simply administratively brake and simply do what we're all saying should be lifted and that's to end the obstacles to the owners, it was fast.hr and it was those scissors. Unfortunately, this has simply been interrupted, and I think it is a project that should, in some modernized form, certainly end because it would simply order all who propose laws to make a revision of these legal proposals and they themselves would have to come to what laws must be lifted as an administrative barrier.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76062	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76063	Thank you very much. My colleague Shuker, I was in the MUP yesterday for the gun list, and I was told to pay a 40 kuna fee with a payment card. Under the MUP there is also post office, Croatia post office is whether, so says 45 kuna, so 12.5% of kuna per 40 kuna is 12.5% of services at payment. So what you're saying is that FINA is the relatively cheapest in payments is really true. When you were talking about the payment traffic being transferred from FINA in 2002/'03. years on business banks but others not only business banks, because today we know where we can all pay the bills, I won't tell the names of the company where we can pay all the bills, so it's actually FINA and lost a good part of its role and functions and profits. You mentioned investments, just once in a sentence, which is that, information equipment. So, you were talking about information equipment as the main tool actually of FINA, because we all know that. I just wanted to add that, with my diligence, I calculated the budget for this year and so it was relatively similar last year for the information equipment of all Croatian ministries around nearly 600 million kuna. This figure that is needed as the main tool is actually in FINA that is 30 million and 854 thousand 291 kuna is really not much when we look at actually all the costs related to the purchase of information equipment throughout the government, the state and all the institutions of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76064	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76065	Thank you very much. A colleague Grubisic, when we talk about payment traffic, may need to be clarified. Payments by legal persons until 2002 went exclusively through FINA, via ZAP. And then it could have been much easier to control the default. The awakening followed, then there was stagnation because we had an economic growth of 5% and was relatively regularly paid. As the crisis grew, the payment deadline was extended. And maybe it would be good if Mrs. Bunetta showed here that table that we often knew how to manipulate politically, which is 60 and a few more percent of all companies blocked without any employees. And they are a big problem of fraud in the Republic of Croatia, frauds that are not made by those who like to stand out like this, because they are handsome pointed out they are politicians but frauds that happen in the economy. And it would be convenient to see that information and then see this information about pre-fashion settlements. Let's see how much administratively the funds went over. Why? So if in the Croatian payment system, when a total mass of funds were poured into several billion kunas, everything would just blossom as everything now flourished in Croatia, as soon as there were few sunny days after these rains and all together. Because if the Croatian monetary system entered the 4.5 billion kuna, it would simply be visible. But we play administratively again, move, delete, like this, because the administrative debt has arisen. Some days it is possible to open up a new company and leave all the obligations on the old company and transfer the machines to a new one, thus creating debts and debts, and unfortunately these debts have grown. But it's very interesting, given that there aren't many politicians there, then it's not convenient to bang on the team because it doesn't make sense that one company that works well has 25 or 26 companies, it doesn't make sense to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76066	Thank you. Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76067	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, you were talking about the government's relationship to FINA. Whenever the government made a more serious decision compared to the FINA, it was followed by FINA's injury and someone else's well-being. Elimination of payment traffic by legal persons with FINA has not only been insignificant. Multiple damages have occurred, and so is the one you're talking about that they've accumulated non-payments since that decision in 2002. You've also talked about the decision that FINA conducts pre-departure deals, but I'm going to point out that FINA is doing a responsible and serious job and that it's one of the most serious institutions to have a maternal relationship with. FINA is an inexhaustible wealth, untapped capacity and human and technological. It is an inexhaustible database that the Republic of Croatia does not want to use for nothing. No decision has been made by the government to get anything from FINA. Violently now she "puts" pretenses on her and brings professional people to the FINA in an awkward situation and sometimes even commits violence against these people in pre-fashion settlements. For example, about the extension period. In accordance with the law, Article 65(4) may now be extended for a further 90 days if no pre-departure settlement is carried out within 120 days. We have where it extends, nine months has not been completed and extended. The interruptions are 50, 60 days, and the extension must be after the expiry of the deadline. And now people are in suspense, they can't work and break the law, they're even being pressured by official correspondence that they have to act against the law. The law is interpreted in an unnatural and harmful way and brings FINA's employees into a very awkward situation and should be protected in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76068	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76069	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Maric, if the law says something, then no one has the right to interpret it because if it is interpreted then it is led to different actions in a very sensitive business, then we all know where this is going together. And when we talk about FINA, then I'm glad that we're all discussing FINA like this today and we're aware of the facts, but FINA was the subject of political reckonings in this home four to five years ago, and I was then the chairman of the Supervisory Board, so I can say when it was simply struggling to bring this FINA back to life, that this FINA was preserved and that it wasn't then, there were 100 million minuses to understand, but it was simply believed in the institution, it was believed in people and it was believed in human knowledge, and it was the greatest wealth. There's no greater wealth than human knowledge, and you can set up no machines, I don't know what computers and what rooms, if you don't have a smart head inside a human being who's going to feed it all together, God of all this together, and that's just proof that saving Finna today has twice as many employees as she did in 2002 and God forbid we've never abolished the Law of Payments because we'd probably have a far better situation today, but that was the modernization. There's no one in Europe, so let's get rid of it. And maybe even the business banks would have been happier if it had remained in FINA, and if they had that clinical system they had because they'd probably be more aware of today, they probably wouldn't have 350,000 blocked. So it's simple, we've abolished a system that worked perfectly, we've politically bickered to finally come after 10 years that we have to have a unique system that will control us, and then once we begin to interpret randomly then we have the situation that we have. And what I didn't say, we're going to support this report because we simply don't want to be incorrect about the job that we claimed a few years ago that it would be good and that it would give results and now that it gives results we can't be against that report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76070	Thank you. Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76071	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Comrade Shuker, you've made a good point in your presentation, and you've been wondering what the government wants from FINA and what direction FINA is going in and then you've noted that the qualification structure in FINA gives room for certain educations, gives space for certain shifts. Now, I remember that we talked about this last year, and it is a shame to withdraw funds from the European Union that are going in a very bad direction as far as the Republic of Croatia is concerned. How FINA didn't think about it, given that it has counters for both natural persons and legal persons and for REGOS as far as we know, and that there is one such counter and in all FINA offices related to legal and physical persons, for local self-government units, for OPGs where it would actually educate its people in FINA, giving that subport that was needed not only in the design of projects, but also in the withdrawal of certain funds which would certainly be good for these structures, and so I believe for FINA. And in that context, I think you've noticed it very well, and it's a shame it's not being used that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76072	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76073	Thank you very much. My colleague Babić, therefore, I only said in the words that the Government must say what it wants for the simple reason that all potentials must simply be used because Croatia is obviously not aware at this time that there is no infrastructure for programming projects to withdraw money from the European Union. That all of Croatia's intellectual capacities at this moment can't be put in one place and projects can't be made for us to withdraw all this money. These are facts he can't escape from. If it's going to be FINA tomorrow, it's going to be someone else, if it's going to be a university, it doesn't matter at all, but the government just has to create a basis for those small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who may not have that much, they're great masters but they don't have a level of education that they can do this or our farmers to be a service. If this is going to be FINA, then it must be counted on to bring in a hundred young people who will be educated, who will pass through school and who will do the job. But then the government as the owner, as founder, must say that's what FINA wants. Can't the FINA stay at this level as it is, because if it stays at this level like we're going to talk in three or four years about that practically over 50% of the income from the FINA are exclusively the service of the state, and that's what's not good. FINA has to go towards taking some of the money and part of the business bank business that I'm telling the business banks sucks at working. That's true. Maybe it's a bad word, but they just always thought it was a low-level job that didn't belong to them. And why wouldn't Finn take it, have people, have counters. But I repeat in this report they simply have to give certain indications that the founder is the Government, but above the Government is the Croatian Parliament making some conclusion that the government is going in that direction, so that the next year when we discuss the report, we are then discussing it in this context. And then the debate on the report will be on a completely different level.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76074	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76075	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Shuker, you said in your debate that gross profits in 2012 were increased compared to 2011 due to lower depreciation. Therefore, the fact is that depreciation can affect the financial outcome. It's a matter of accounting policy. Amortisation can be calculated up to maximum tax rates, can be calculated even lower, at lower rates. So it's a matter of accounting policy. But what I'm sure is that here in this case, in the case of FINA, that was not the reason for the increase in profits, and you yourself have denied yourself. Namely, the biggest profit as you said, so it was in 2010, and it is in 2010 that the highest depreciation rate is calculated. And you said one more thing, so the information systems, i.e. the APIS and FINA information systems, are going to be overstretched at the moment, and that any possible implementation of a new project might have caused them to fall. So something similar was said when fiscalization was introduced, so the Tax Administration system would fall because of this introduction of a new project. However, the fact that the system hasn't fallen, but it's doing great. And this whole fiscalization project has proved to be great.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76076	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76077	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76078	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76079	It's just not good to take sentences out of context. I was talking about amortization I was talking about as part of the whole... how revenue, so expenditure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I wasn't saying at all that someone reduced the depreciation or increased the profits, but I just said that depreciation is the cost. And if the cost of 30 million is less than the previous year, actually 20 and another something million, and the profit is greater by 16 million that the logical thing is that it connects with each other. Also, I was saying how much the revenues from the public had decreased, actually increased revenues from the public sector, and reduced revenue from the private sector. I'm simply pointing to some trends. But look, it's to me, so if you've understood it that way, it wasn't intended at all to say that it's so much for depreciation, but if you look at a little deeper report, I didn't want to elaborate it because I don't think it's relevant, and the government has given certain tasks to FINA as to the assets that have to solve some problems and I think some real estate problems have been solved, and that's why it's less depreciation if you're already pulling me by the tongue to say it all the way. So, yes, but I found that irrelevant in this whole story. And as for the system, the system is really tense and it's not at all controversial. And as for the results of the fixation, I'm looking at all the results on the income side. And until the idiot sees on the income side the result of that I don't trust him with anything. What someone says to me like this, and the revenues in the state budget are such that we had to introduce new taxes, then the effect of fiscalization is nothing. Or you missed with some tax rates, and you know well what a missed tax rate is. First of all, hospitality, I mean.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76080	We're moving on to an individual debate. A colleague of Goran Maric's.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76081	Thank you very much, Vice President, Mrs. Bunetta. Just a few reviews and notes. I was encouraged by this thesis about the government's relationship to FINA. Let's go back a little bit to history. It concerns the fact that FINA as one of the most important financial institutions in Croatia has been falling back for years, and not progressing, has been stagnating for years, and it is not developing with its own guilt. I will repeat that FINA has extraordinary human potential, that it has an extremely complex job, an extremely responsible job. But it's no wonder there's not a bit of what I remember about the old days and everything that was so good, but we can really think of SDK as an impeccable institution. I regret today for an institution like SDK, we destroyed it ourselves. FINA today is neither close to SDK nor your guilt, but it was a process. It is a permanent process as a consequence of the enemy state's relationship, the government towards the state institution taking more care of other interests than the interests of the FINA itself. When all we have to do is come up with a memory of the DVO who remembers us from the elderly. Well, while there was a DVO, there was no default. As long as there were acceptive warrants, it didn't occur to anyone not to pay. We've abolished everything, and there's been a boom of default, there's been a boom of trouble, there's been a crime, and we've just destroyed a systematic job that worked in the SDK. So we changed names and changed jobs. Kidnapping FINA's business, giving private institutions and still forcing FINA to do almost nothing for those institutions that were given a job. And now we've burdened them with pre-determined deals, brought people in, I know what the situation is with you, they work impeccably, they work so they don't have time for coffee and they're really in an awkward situation. Someone will one day wonder if it was done by law or not? If the law stipulates that a pre-trial procedure must be completed before the settlement board within 120 days and that only in exceptional situations can this procedure be extended for a maximum of 90 days as possible if 120 days have expired and there is no further authorisation for prolongat, there is no advisory council has made no decision, 2 months after the end someone remembers in the advisory board and decides to extend the period by 45 days which has expired already two months ago. And he says, you don't count the end two months ago, but now you count when we make the decision. According to that logic, someone can make a decision in two years, so they'll say here in two years we're making a 45-day prolongat and it's going from today. I don't call anyone for anything but an unnatural relationship, it seems illogical and out of line with the law. And now the man in FINA is choosing either to keep the job or to act as if it wasn't in the law. So let's not let these situations and people get into such an awkward situation. Because maybe tomorrow the innocent will answer. And it's possible, I wouldn't want anyone to answer. Here, I have in my hand proof of where a solution was adopted last year where the procedure was suspended, where it expired at 12 months and where nothing happened and the procedure had to be terminated. In the third month, a prolongate solution is made and another 45 days is extended. And when this is not followed by the Ministry of Finance's opinion that they are obliged to act regardless of the time limit. I wouldn't be in the place of those who do that kind of work. And there are so many wonderful people, there's so much untapped energy and potential but there's no way the government can look at what and how it can use FINA for the benefit of the state and of all of us and improve it. But there's no strategic thinking. Is Croatia a postal bank for sale or not? We paid the counselors, we didn't sell. And the budget was paid for the advisors. No one can justify that it's good, no one. There's no argument that's going to support that it's, that it seems good. And if it's a strategic decision to keep HPB and maybe capitalize with private capital, but to advance, to compete, so there's so much space in FINA, so many new businesses as they want in each city in the best position. No such ideas. They'd hire people from FINA, and they wouldn't fire them. He says he's got FINA property so he doesn't know what to do with it, and he's paying the rent to the others. There's no government strategic definition of what we want. Whether we wish well for this Croatia or only for individuals, and always to the harm of the state institution. Receipts to FINA, and income to other institutions. It's so much work, so much work, and so much unpaid work. Unpaid and through wages, unpaid and through compensation, not paid for by those who do so, not paid for by the FINA who does so. And the payments are only made by decision not by state but by others. Well, when a decision is made to make private legal persons pay traffic, then let the day of the decision stop all the obligations of FINA. Why should FINA work for free and continue to suffer only the transitional period? But most importantly, we've lost control of the loss of FINA function. We don't know what's going on in payment traffic, we don't know what's being paid. We have a billion euros in the balance of payments yearly statistical errors because there is no telling what is being paid abroad. While FINA was doing the job, it was known for every lip, for every kuna, for who is in debt, for how much it is due, how it is blocked, why it's blocked, the order of the blockades. You don't know anything today, they let the bank go, they take away her work, and after the license is taken away, after the bank stops being a bank, someone takes off the account 9, 10 or 11 million kuna so they don't know who blocked the account for nine seconds and took off in whose name and for whom? It couldn't happen or can happen while SDK, ZAP or FINA was working. That's why I'd like to call at last one specific strategically that we want from FINA. We just know what we want from the people in FINA, to do what they're told and nothing else. And what their future is, in which direction it develops, no one knows. We can cancel tomorrow, and it's not certain. And we can actually just say thank you to all those in FINA who do such a hard job, so there is nothing left but really accept this report but there is room for more, for restructuring but please don't just follow the structure under cover of layoff, firing one worker is not a restructuring, let alone a hundred. Restructure, change jobs, increase the scope of work, expand the activity but don't fire people at any cost, that someone orders you to do it and I beg you, here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76082	Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76083	Thank you very much. Namely, fellow Maric, you said in your first statement that FINA was giving jobs to banks, so one part was influenced by the banking lobby and one part probably had to give, but it is important that FINA knows exactly what a cor business is and what a caritative business is, therefore, the monetary effects and financial expressions are important. But I want to rephrase to you, just before you said that the innocent will answer, the innocent will never respond to fellow Maric, and I'm afraid that there will be no innocents but the last thing I want to do for you, you said that the Post Office Bank, the advisors were paid and it wasn't sold. In fact, paid advisers are also us at the HDSSB Club we think it should not have been sold, although we need to strengthen the postal bank but I also wish that INA had not been sold and that we listened a little more to the advisers of the past when we privatised what is healthy, especially the banking sector and also the energy sector. Therefore, there are problems for us in Croatia that often we did not listen to counselors and we were just working on our own. Since they are paid advisors at Postanska Banka, we don't think it's as bad as we don't think it's bad that the Post Bank isn't sold.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76084	Replication response, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76085	Thank you very much. Comrade Bubalo, you said that the advisors listened would not have been sold to the INA, the advisors listened to each other, so it was sold and paid so I know the names that the consulting firm got for the sale of which banks, which companies. Therefore, advisers have also advised this, but the state that consciously alienates its ownership in the telecommunications sector, PLIVA, INA, has been knowingly giving its economic sovereignty into other people's hands and it should never have happened. And as far as COR's business is concerned, I'm afraid today you're asking what the main activity of the FINA is, no one knows that anymore. She changes from day to day. It used to be pay traffic, it used to be control, it used to be, which at all, and it could be nothing. Today is the main business, the most burdensome are the performances and pretenses, most of all, when I say the innocent will get hurt, because those who participate in the implementation themselves do not decide what the law prescribes or does not prescribe, they are appointed and must implement what someone else has ordered. It's signed by the advisory council, signed here by the gentleman and said you have to do it anyway. And the one who prescribes on behalf of the Advisory Council on Financial Business knows nothing but absolutely knows nothing about financial business and signs such things.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76086	Thank you very much. Ante Babic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76087	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear Maric, you spoke well of it and said that FINA had lost control of payment traffic and that it was very important but that there was no strategic thinking and that there were no specifics and then you started talking about something that tickled me, we actually talked about it. Now you can hypothetically imagine, and it is a pity that we are talking about the hypothetical Croatian Post Bank, FINA and Croatia insurance that could actually be in the Republic of Croatia, in which way it could actually be developed. I'm not saying that they couldn't do it, I'm actually saying that it could have been one great leader not only in Croatia but I'm sure in places much, much wider. I think you can agree with that. Unfortunately, what happened happened. I'd be sorry if it happened to Finna the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76088	Replication response, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76089	Unfortunately, with FINA, something similar is happening just in a different way. This is a one-time decision and a one-time process and with FINA is a long-term process of depletion and will come to an end, they will kneel down, so if we can only remember how many people were fired there, then we'll be in one year at 700, 800. How many employees of you, as many as there are today, when you talk about Postanska banka and Croatia insurance, so Croatia's insurance was sold for half the amount of money Croatia's insurance had on the jury account, in half the amount. And not to mention real estate, COR business, potential, opening from the EU market, Croatians living outside Croatia, who have finally been given the opportunity to provide insurance with Croatia and are waiting to be secured and are now allowed to do so. We've dropped that potential, the state is working against itself, that is, there are those who are working against the state on behalf of the state, and that's the same thing with the Post Office, that's the same thing with other banks. As far as FINA is concerned, there's at least still hope and a chance of saving that institution. But if two more, three such measures were taken by taking jobs and directing and not protecting the institution itself, then there will be only 200, 300 people, real estate by city centres will be sold out, resold, there will be more and more people at the employment office and there will be talk of restructuring and how it is now gained... bigger. The state institution must not function in such a way and happiness that there are always responsible people in FINA who... and this administration is responsible for the business and that is good luck for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76090	Thank you very much. Final word, Mrs. Angelka Bunetta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76091	After such a very useful and constructive discussion, it is difficult to sum up on this subject and resent if I forgot something, I tried to group myself under common denominators similar questions. I'll start with these formal things, it's said that the report should be standardised so that we'll all be happy, that we have one standard form as in corporate, to say the area of business in private business, and what information should be given. We used this good corporate practice, but we adapted it to ourselves because we are different though, we are a state-owned company, is that we have established a special Financial Agency Act and we need to sublime all of our own, we will say various activities and jobs. The concept of our report was appropriate to our organisation and clients of our services, of course, so we managed ourselves so that we did not, we listed all our important jobs based on this for the state, but pre-fashion deals we started to do, the law was passed 01.10.2012 and the full amount of information you will receive in the 2013 report, which is logical. As for the performance, we went with, we're going to say a way of reporting as it was before our predecessors because we saw and when I defended the 2011 report that, let me say, the diapazon of the information we gave in the report, I got at least the impression that it was satisfactory, so we didn't go into some depth. It's one of the jobs the financial agency does. It's about that part. The new strategy, now of course, is not new to us because the transition strategy of FINA ended in 2012. Based on the analysis of the results obtained by the Transition 2009/2012 strategy we have made a new one, we call it an innovative financial agency strategy 2013/2017. Why? This one stopped, we analyzed the situation, and as one serious thing to say to the company, we need to have a strategic direction where we drive and what we do and in what direction, to say offered by history, the past, all of these things that you're familiar with and about which today many of the discussions have been focused, we've come out alone with our vision, so the FINA fact has good powers within itself, as we see our future. This strategy is presented to our supervisory board and our supervisory board adopted it. The emphasis is essentially on the continued use of FINA's comparative advantages, primarily people, networks, so people are able and have regardless of the professional equipment, we'll say because it's a medium professional cook, we have extremely loyal employees, employees who are terribly willing to learn, employees who simply want to live with this company, and if they can't implement, integrate all this new stuff that is expected of us and that we put ourselves in a new strategy, then no one can. So, with people and our network, we want to integrate new information solutions and implement them, we're going to say what we see is that the state as our partner and owner in the final and this commercial part of the business where one of the commercial clients is our banks. It's said that our investments, what we've planned haven't been fully implemented, are true, we would like the plan to be implemented the way we've plotted, but our actions in getting an extremely different duration, not because we're tramps, but because everyone complains. The bread is not for a variety of people who report to the competition, and then it usually ends on the Commission for Public Procurement. By the time it's over, of course, that old man is in your house if it's some continuous business that just can't stop. It's just like that, and we do it on our side with maximum speed to speed it up, but simple processes are what they are. It's been said that we're doing caritative work, and I really don't agree with that. We do our jobs on the basis of a contract in the commercial part we fight with competition in public competitions and these are the devil's battles and we generally get beat up well and we get, mainly in electronic business and especially with our new business as we have the Archive and Documentation Centre. There's a competition battle even by the side now but here we win. As regards the state as our owner, which gives us jobs, we will tell us our public authority or the basis of the law that we have received pre-profit deals, so either we have a contractual relationship or the basis of the law, that we are regulated to have a job such as pre-fashion, and the basis of the regulation determines how much work benefits, to run these jobs, to deal with settlement councils and how many fees for these 120 days and procedures of 90 days, so that's what we're going to say. It's been said that we're going out to the banks, I wouldn't call it if we were going to meet the banks. We have been fighting for life, literally for life, especially since we joined the EU, and we have had all the great players of Poland, Sweden, Germany, so we need to adapt to regulations. The first entrance was HUP 3, now SEPA. We want to stay in this game so as long as it goes and I think we are extremely competent, and we have proved this at all these conferences across Europe that Croatia has an NKS of the fastest and best in the world. So what do you want to throw away? So we're going to invest in it, we're going to adapt to SEPA and we're going to compete and we're going to fight with competition in Europe. How are we gonna get through this? I don't know, but we want to pass, we want to try because this is our bread. We have the Commitment let's say so at least the formal and Croatian banks' associations and all these major banks in Croatia that the office is the chosen route. So we have to go. It has been said that education in FINA is not evenly distributed in our regional centres, branches and offices, and I would not quite agree on the reason why it usually goes from top to top, people's demands are collected, and FINA has brought its policy to education that it needs and in which it will continue to educate people. We primarily need lawyers, economists and informers, these are the three dams that are very, very important to us because the fact is that we have about 60% of the SS, that they work as if they have a tall, but they also need a formal education. We have our internal regulations, our promotional acts, that's what's being respected. Last 2013 I think there was a historic step in FINA in terms of how many people it is and I'm going to say we made ourselves criteria for advancement and went to bigger pay classes. We've created a job catalogue and a salary bill, which is now adopted, and we're negotiating with the union. Since '99, it's been a systematization of jobs in FINA, this will be a step of qualitatively strong, very large, in line with the directives, in line with European practice, so we've worked our way home to make sure we're ready for this out-of-market game. It's been said that the collective contract, we've broken the collective agreement now not to speak for some we'll say formal-legal executions. It's true that we have lawsuits for unpaid Christmases, it's true that we haven't paid it, because it's optional there can pay for positive results in the union agreement and management why we didn't and we tried to talk to our union partner. FINA from the past has been burdened with several large, large court disputes where it has been tried outside court settlements, of course everyone is looking to say that they go better in that settlement. We didn't agree to that deal because it would cost Fina 120 million. Since we didn't know how it would go any further, we wanted whatever we didn't have to save the money because we didn't know how to get through, that's why. Employment in FINA mostly what was, were competitions, we have an internal tender procedure, if you don't find internally you're going to the exterior, in an external competition all this work is VSS mostly lawyers and ITists. Our informers, as Croatia enters the EU, 17 of us left, it was a terrible blow for us, and in this way we filled it out. As far as FINA's GS is concerned, since we're founded as the Financial Agency Act, we're not a classical trading company, I'm going to say so, so we don't have that truly consolidated report with our daughter's company, even though we do it internally, we're not bonds. The FINA GS implemented a crisis plan without earthquake, restructured. I don't know if any of you heard us in one wave fired 90 people who were for a certain time employed, so we didn't extend their contracts. After that, when we implemented the restructuring and the first steps in the crisis plan, we began to re-employ. We pulled those same people out of the contract again. So today I can say in 2013 the year FINA GS ended with 7.8 million profits. They are, but we couldn't do it without a social partner or without telling all the employees. We're dealing with each other, let's say. Someone mentioned the printers. They were replaced at the end of 2012. What with all the assets that FINA has, FINA has 244,000 square places of space. Yes, at attractive locations, that's true, some are also protected monuments of a zero category. Now we're all going towards this, and we're getting those energy efficiency certificates, so we started, and we're going to see what we can get out of European funds, which is why we're going to worry and worry about that property. Everything we could rent, we rented, where there was interest, of course there's no interest in some small environments where no companies work. Here's the last and last year's total of about 9,000 square meters of that space we don't need we rented. It's a nice hunt, after all. You don't pay the expenses so that you do, let's say in some way you see it in our books. What's going to happen to us tomorrow, I think we've laid good foundations in our innovation strategy. If it's going to happen that way, I think it is, because the Supervisory Board adopted it for us. If something happens to you the day after tomorrow, I don't know, I can't tell you. We work in good faith like we're going to be 100 years. If we've survived all these preambles that we've been through the past that most of you have talked about, I think we have the strength and that we would like to know where we are, of course we would like to, and that every little thing like this happens that you have to try to solve a lot of problems with your own strengths. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76092	Thank you very much. Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76093	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bunetta, you said whether reports should be harmonised and unified shouldn't be and whoever thinks the reports should be standardised then I'm afraid he doesn't understand the way they operate. It is not possible to standardise the HANFA report, the Pressure Control Agency or the Agricultural Payment Agency with the FINA report. Not at all. Each institution should make the best of its own report. And I think you can, you're on that path but you need to do it. That he should be richer, more illustrative and more reasoned. For example, how much was the cost, how much was it, how much was it, how much was it invested in the business, and how much was it coming, what was the result in the end of such a reaction. You've indicated that you're getting something under the law. Of course there's no income under the law. But it's interesting that by law, the state always takes away the work of the FINA that brings income and brings work to the FINA that has no income. Well, that's not how fina can survive. It introduces pre-price settlements without income and takes away the payment traffic that brings you income. At the same time, he pays a clean start to the state institution and doesn't pay you. And why wouldn't the economic development strategy build an institute for free. Why do they get paid and you don't get paid? It can't, and it's burdened you, now it's your job in charge and someone who within working hours can normally make a clean start for him to be paid in millions. It's an inconsistencies policy, that's how the company is destroyed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76094	Thank you. Time's up Would you like to respond to the replica? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And Kresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76095	In fact, Mrs. Bunetta, you said, in fact, you said, "I wouldn't say we're dating banks." Namely, I did in my presentation say exactly what you wrote on page 26. A new price policy is expressed in meeting the needs and wishes of banks as the most significant business clients of FINA. So you can't say I wouldn't say we're dating banks, and that's what the report says, you're a little contradictory of the report. But what you touched in your final speech is the FINA GS. I would like to have had in this report and one part relating to them because in 2012, it was a negative result of 5.5 million, a year earlier 17.9, a year earlier -4, I am glad that last year was positive and we look forward to the FINA report, in which the whole of it will be set aside that this cash share has been doing positive business. So congratulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76096	The answer to Angel Bunnet's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76097	Yeah, we're a little clumsy, I'll say we wrote it for a reason, let's say in late 2011, agreed with the banks, it was known that Croatia is entering the EU if you want to survive in this business we simply have to go down priceily and coordinate all those cycles of the NKS. So, we didn't sign it, let's say it like that, but in some, we'll say the gentleman's way we agreed because it's the only chance we have to stay in this business and try to compete when Croatia enters the European Union for all these big NKS players.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76098	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report Friday. And now let's agree on tomorrow for, we won't continue with the report on the work of the probation service since the Ministry of Justice can't attend, so tomorrow we'll start with the Final Proposal of the State Support Act and we'll go on in order and we'll be back on Friday at point 4. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-26-0.u76099	The annual star of the Financial Agency for 2012. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget as the home working body of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the next conclusion. "The Annual Report of the Financial Agency for 2012 is accepted a year." Please make a statement. Who's in favor of this conclusion? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of the 95 votes in favour and 6 abstentions have been reached with the proposed conclusion.
