ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u64082	Thank you very much President-in-Office of the Parliament, I request a 15-minute break for the state of HZ CARGO, which is the announced possible bankruptcy that Croatian Parliament representatives only learn about through the media. I think it's inadmissible, we've been looking for a committee session about, the Committee's thematic session, after a year and a half, we got it, which lasted honestly, effectively maybe half an hour, when we had a chance to ask questions, we practically didn't get an answer to any questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u64083	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker. It was Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u64084	For the same reason we're looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u64085	Okay. There's no more hands in the air, I'm fixing a break, that's enough 10 minutes because you know everything about what you're going to say and what you have to say. I'll see you at 1 5 to 10. At 9.45 a.m., continue the session. Thank you very much. It's 9:35 p.m. Dear fellow MPs, respected fellow MPs, the break time is up. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] I would like a representative of the Croatian Labour Club in the Croatian Parliament, the respected representative Mladen Novak, to present the position of the club for reasons for rest.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u64087	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. We asked for a break to warn the state of HZ CARGO and primarily motivated by a statement made by Minister Hajdaš Doncic the other night in his press, or the other night the media transmitted it when he said HZ CARGO would go bankrupt without his remorse, he would send them into bankruptcy. I think such a statement by a minister without the Assembly having any information about it, without ever having discussed it, I think it's inadmissible. But since it's already like that then I'll remind you that in a similar situation are some other big ones, so let's say here's somebody mentioning the EPH, it doesn't come to anybody's sense of being forced into bankruptcy, but what's state-owned is fine, it's just fine. I remind you that this same Minister Hajdas Doncic when he came to that position was his first statement that there are 5,000 extra people in the HZ system. Based on what did he conclude? HŽ CARGO has 3.5 thousand employees and now he says so easily he will go bankrupt. That's three thousand families. It's likely that the comments will be to beat and raise workers again. If you don't care about the 3.5 thousand people I believe no one here is no matter what side, just whether you'll have to say it because yesterday your boss party said it, it's something else. I hear comments, 1100 said, 1100 said you should fire immediately and HZ CARGO has 3.5 thousand employees and if it goes bankrupt, then it's 3.5 thousand employees. For a year and a half, we asked for a thematic session to be held in the Committee on Transport, Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. For a year and a half, the minister was due to respond. After a year and a half of all problems in this portfolio and there are highways, there are Croatian railways, all three systems, there are Croatian mail, there are many things and you know it. For a year and a half, they were to respond and attend such a session of the board and the session sat down for an hour and a half of his monologue, and frankly it wasn't just my impression, but the impression of most of the representatives present was that we attended the English course. The minister did not say a single sentence without using at least two, three phrases in English probably to strengthen his impression, but no problem he pointed to had even offered a solution. The SDP's opinion but everyone else's opinion was that the minister's appearance was extremely rude and arrogant. The minister's sentence at the end when he rose and left because he had to go to a meeting with another minister, the minister's closing statement that he had a very interesting intellectual level of questions asked. Isn't that an insult to all MPs? And that's the minister's attitude towards the entire portfolio that all these workers pay in the end. I find it unacceptable for the Minister for All Miss HZ CARGO, for this situation in which HZ CARGO says they are workers. He set up management, remember here we discussed two years ago, about a little less than a year ago I warned you that this situation was going to happen. That's when I was called a populist, demagogue, and I was even directly told to lie and manipulate, to spread panic and fear. Now it's the same thing that happened, and now we don't have an answer for it. The minister says it's the workers. What did the workers decide? The administration that, the two-member administration that was in the meantime a year and something more has made so many failures and so many wrong moves that it's really for the Guinness Book of Records, it's the perfect couple that's probably impossible to overcome. The minister also warned the committee at the meeting, saying he had no intention of interfering with the company's business policy. The business policy of a state-owned company, which now goes into bankruptcy, is likely bankruptcy, but in any case, 1100 people go straight to the street, and the other 2000 is in danger, almost 2500. Since my time is up, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u64088	Thank you, too. Dear colleague on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u64089	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. So look the problem of the Croatian Railways is not from today and apparently a very arrogant man who led the ministry has finally realized that some things cannot be solved from the cabinet ad hoc with some phrases but simply have to create preconditions. But that politics must take care of what is told is the best example of the current finance minister who was then an opposition representative and claimed that 2 billion and 800 redundancies for Croatian railways from the budget are too little. What happens in 2011, actually in 2012 in order to show Croatia that one consolidation, budgetary etc.? Railways are cut from 2 billion to 800 billion to 400. The working ratio of railways at that point was about 2:2,15, 2.20, and this means to you colleagues and colleagues that on the kuna of the earned HH they must receive €2.20 from the state budget that they can simply exist, that they can pay the wages, that for the safety of traffic they must invest minimally in maintaining both transport and infrastructure. So that's what they said. It is clear to everyone that railways are dragging a number of problems from previous years, so ultimately, the concept of infrastructure development in the Republic of Croatia has led in a certain way to be inoperable, but it is all something called restructuring, someone had to do it. However, if this bankruptcy story is not harmless to the state budget and the Republic of Croatia, I will only tell you that HZ-Cargo has received the guarantee of the Republic of Croatia for 880 million kuna. Now I'm going to tell you, we know each other so often about who got the loan and how it got the credit, whether it's fair and correct to raise the minister's hand for that loan and know that in two or three years' time, according to the EUROSTAT methodology, it's going to become a government budget deficit just because that loan gets to a company that no business bank wanted to credit with a state guarantee. It is a clear signal that this company is in trouble and that this company cannot function in a certain way and that the state must clearly say through the administration, not through the workers, which it wants from HZ-Carg, so eventually and if it wants to be sold by whoever buys HZ-Cargo simply gets an answer from the state as it sees this HZ-Cargo in the future. However, colleagues and colleagues, so the government has issued over the past two years and two months what HZ-Infrastructure, which HZ-Cargo, has issued somewhere over 2 billion guarantees. That's all we're going to be counting on in a year or two on the government budget deficit, so eventually, according to ESA-2010, that's going to be counted on as a government budget deficit. So that short-term story we reduced the deficit of the state budget in 2012 very quickly came toll because the deficit was not reduced. Because if someone to survive has to get so much and so much, eventually for the state budget now whether in a year or two or three, it turns out exactly the same. We have this case through several economic branches that have for years for this reason or the reason for the futran to say so from the state budget, in the end, it's all been charged. So the HZ-Carga problem and the problem of some other state-owned companies that are in these problems cannot be solved without trying to restructure. A easy to say that HZ-Cargo or the behavior of people or what happens with HZ-Carg or those who wanted to buy HZ-Carg just like when you break up with a girl after a few years best talks about the seriousness of who said and the seriousness of how he approached the problem. Remember, a colleague and colleagues, a little less than a year ago, the pompous privatisation of HZ-Carg was announced, as it was said pompously with praises about partners who made an offer from Romania, see how the situation today ends. And the other thing, as much as we feel in Croatia, is that someone's incompetence in one way or another, but this is another message to foreign investors. This kind of privatisation process, this attitude towards those who want to invest in Croatia because, look, it would be more logical and probably all the ministers would have clapped if he had made a clear and loud statement about it, that and those who offered HZ-Cargo can't get HZ-Cargo. Then he would send a message to all potential investors in the Croatian public and to us in the Croatian Parliament that Croatia is a serious state. In this way we send a message to all those who would eventually tomorrow, and finally what we're going to discuss today about the executive laws, buy these vast properties that will be carried out under these laws, we send a terrible, terrible negative message.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u64090	Thank you, Your Honor. We will continue to work, but I think I can say that one step and another found that the problem of the Croatian Railways is not one-dimensional, that it is not only acute but that the chronic problem is long over the years and third, that the attempt to privatise has failed as everyone knows, but every attempt to privatise and does not have to succeed. So we're waiting for the government's reaction and we'll respond accordingly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u64091	Here's the time for a break so let's hear what the HDSSB thinks about the arrest of Romanian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u64092	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am not only forming Romanian citizens, but Croatian citizens, and some of the things that are happening in this country where we are trying to bring corruption to the so-called. Zero tolerance and we won't talk about Đura Djakovic's piar agencies, and we won't talk about giving out money every month for 30 thousand kunas. That's not what I'm gonna do today. That's what I'm gonna ask for a break. This time I asked for a break, I'd say by the name of HZ CARGO 2. Namely, it is too important for HZ CARGO to say everything about it in five minutes and as it was yesterday in two clubs, Labourists and HDZ. About HZ CARG, the future depends not only on the worker and 3.5 thousand employees of HZ CARGO, but also on workers and development and the ports of Rijeka and the railways Rijeka-Zagreb-Budapest, I would like to say the main railway route to the Republic of Croatia, then the future of Gredel workers and even Djura Đaković, Končar and many others depends. That's what this is about. So it's not 3.5 thousand, it's more than 19,000 employees. That is why it is not uninteresting for the Croatian Parliament, therefore, uninteresting news and information that the chief director of Romania's Grampet Group Gruja Stojka was arrested last night and in connection with the bribes he gave for the privatisation of Romania's 3m-euro cargo. The people are cancer where there's smoke and there's fire. It is an interesting chronology of the Grampet Group as the only one to apply or report to the Croatian Government tender in connection with the purchase or sale of HZ CARGO and we know that there were initially interested both in Austria and in the Czech Republic with relatively few more favourable conditions. There was no such thing as post-Grampet group statements saying that the contacts between the Croatian government and the Grampet group have existed for a year, meaning since January of last year, the tender was called in the sixth month of last year. If we tell you anything, I won't finish it, but I will hand over the documents that I have about that, after six months in the summer months, Minister Hajdas Doncic himself banned HZ CARGO's administration from any investment, cash transactions without his knowledge. So let's go to chronology. What does that mean? How HZ CARGO in these years or two has reached such low branches, in enormous debt and difficulty, and then without cramping on the face, it is necessary to fire 1100 employees and to reduce the wages 20% or I don't know what. It's a big slap all over the Croatian economy, I said already which companies are addicted and addictive and which companies can do well with HZ CARGO instead of taking advantage of this advantage and opportunities we are attached to the only so-called. who stayed with the bidder and this is Mr. Gruja Stojka group Grampet Ferrial in Romania and now that Mr. Stojka has come to the blow of the Romanian judiciary I think it's time that because of the situation in HZ CARGO and the overall situation on the railways where both relatives and godfathers rule and I don't know what kind of relations and have become similar and not capable people, Mr. Doncic, given all the circumstances and which can come to the surface very easily resign, yes. You smoke as much as you want, but it'll come out. That's all I'm gonna do, and I'm not gonna use my five minutes, so please let Mr. Minister or Prime Minister hear about it because it's really time for this government to respect zero tolerance for corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u64093	If you think Minister Hajdas Doncic is supposed to resign, file an impellation. It's the only right path, and as I recall, it was you who attacked Hajdas Doncic for interrupting these talks with these Romanians who are now being arrested. I don't understand the logic, we may find out more about Mladen Novak who will speak for the Croatian Labourists.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u64094	Dear Vice President. Here's for the same reasons why the HDSB colleagues were looking for a break, and we're looking for it today, even though we were looking for it yesterday. The situation in HZ CARG, I would now expand this a little bit, it's not just a state in HZ CARG, it's a general state in Minister Hajdaš Doncic's portfolio and you, Mr. Chairman, said a couple of years ago that these ministers will be responsible for the moves, are ready to answer for the moves of all those they set up. Since Minister Doncic and the board were the only thematic session, which was unfortunately so far after a year and a half of waiting, said he had no idea that he was calling the administration due to bad business moves. It's still with each other in the opposite, and the bad business moves are so bad that the complete HZ-Cargo definitely pulled to the bottom. But not just HH-Cargo. My predecessor mentioned that other companies depend on it, so I will expand, depend and economic. The transport of those burdens, which we find locally interesting within the Republic of Croatia, is well-oriented on railways, sugars, construction at the end of the road, and these highways were doing a good job, the delivery of these materials was going through the railroad, which will obviously be impossible in the future. The minister when he came to his post, except for that famous statement that 5,000 people would immediately fire on HZ, he announced a traffic strategy. We haven't seen those traffic strategies yet. In order for someone to make such an important decision, and I think it is still an important decision to sell one part of their system, HZ-Cargo is that, I think it should be an integral part of the transport strategy, after all, in that part of the transport strategy we should, you should discuss this Parliament. In the 5th month before last year, when we passed the Law on the division of HZ, I warned it was not good to move such provisions, to transfer all the power to the government. I won't repeat how I'm called for it, it's always interpreted as being cooperative. Now that it's been before the contest, we've been warning who the partners are, let's say on the questionnaire? The entire professional public has warned of this, not because someone is coming from Romania, nor is anyone good who comes from the West, nor is anyone bad who comes from the east. But all those references that were known warned that it was about a man who simply lacked that capacity and that it was very doubtful what would happen in the future. Now we have what's going to happen, what we predicted, now it's happening to us. Part of the seriousness of the minister is also the way he changed management. He switched too late, but then he set up his assistant, until then he put the assistant in charge of HZ-Carg's administration. But that man sat there all this time, being the chairman of the Supervisory Board of the same firm. And where's his responsibility for all this? So there are a whole series of people who have sinned or sinned in this story and no one is taking responsibility back. And I absolutely agree, I'm not saying, I agree with what my colleagues said, I should, the minister should be as a moral person, he should resign himself. On the other hand, the Prime Minister, given this, everything that's happening to him. I'll also remind you of HAC, the ARZ, there's a lot of problems in that vault. There was a problem after a year and a half to call the first session. The continuation of that session has not yet been welcomed. For what? I absolutely support the proposal already put forward that the minister should resign himself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u64095	In the name of the HDZ Club, Ivan Shuker will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u64096	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. So I think when we talk about the reason for this break and what's going on, we first have to ask if this contest was transparent enough? Because if we look at this contest, if we pull the parallel to the concession competition for the airport, then you'll see that there's been a lot of things happening from the public's eyes, and that's the key problem. Because when you call an international competition, especially for something that's interesting. We cannot say that the corridors from the Slovenian border to the border with Serbia, the corridor from the Hungarian border to the border with BiH and this railway we all mention in politics, but only when we need it, which is Rijaka-Zagreb-Botovo or Botovo-Zagreb-Rijek, which is practically one of the most important railways for the Central Europe economy. So we call a competition in the way it is and it's very interesting that all those who could possibly offer something new, and that is, we should also mention we will build the infrastructure by which tomorrow the HZ-Cargo will drive. That's because HZ-Cargo isn't just HZ-Cargo, so he's got something to do. If I'm not mistaken for one of the most important strategic objectives of this government for economic recovery, we're not going to invest in highways anymore, we're going to invest in railroads, and some concessionaires are going to drive along those tracks. Then the logical thing was to bring that concession to someone who would bring you a job tomorrow. So, if power will pay a certain concession fee, in a certain way give you back traffic and for a number of reasons relieve certain road routes. So that's something that should include an international competition and that's something when we talk about the transparency of the competition. But it's very interesting, the question is, what were certain services doing in this country? Did these services inform anyone that the person with whom the negotiations were being negotiated might need to be questioned, questioned, or interrupted, but we had the answers we had. Try to analyze what we've heard in the past three, four months regarding the privatisation of HZ-Carg. However, can we expect anything better when we have a strategy for traffic development by the Spanish, Hungarians who, the Hungarians might still find this line of Botovo-Zagreb-Rijek, but I doubt they'll find these others and that corridor towards BiH, and I don't know if the Spanish would find it, but they will, the French will make us a health development strategy and we'll be where we are. And how does this vault work? My colleagues and colleagues remember the last time the A1 highway was closed for ice, when? And when they were the biggest falling vehicle up. This morning, the A1 shares of Ogulin towards the face are closed because of the ice, and it also makes it clear how strategically we care about strategic matters. Also when that accident happened, unfortunately, that brought people's lives with it. So that's all the facts we can't forget. Also why did HZ Cargo buy the blind track of Dioki for 18 million kuna? why a state guarantee was later given to that same Dioki of 35 million kunas in order for the Vice-President of the Parliament to be blown out there by chance that it is not for what the guarantee is given by law but for wages. But it's very interesting everything is connected to one corporation on the one hand, another corporation on the other. And I'm going to say something completely open here, and I can imagine what kind of salve of accusations would have gone down if it had happened to the Minister of the HDZ Government, which would have happened and what kind of dictionary would have been used for this speaker. That's why every word I've said for this speaker weighs well, because I just don't want to be the same. But what I stand for and what I have always stood for, and this is evidence and this is the law that we are discussing today, which is a transparent way of using and spending both the money and the wealth of this country. And that's why I think someone should imagine themselves because I say A1 wasn't closed at hard times.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u64097	We are now going back to regular work.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67505	And now we continue in accordance with the scheduled agenda. It is next - Proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Executive Act, first reading, PZ No. 571 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. These are the provisions of Article 183-188. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the draft law was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received reports from these working bodies of the Croatian Parliament at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Honorable Justice Minister Orsat Milenic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67506	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. So before us are the amendments and additions to the executive law. Perhaps the introduction, and these changes and additions that we've been doing so far, have yielded results, and here are the number of executive procedures that have been reduced by 27% in 2013 compared to 2012. What do we want with these amendments to the law? I'll pass by, point out the basic directions, there are four of them, with them overlapping. So first, it is the result on one side of what we have seen as shortcomings in the practice so far and in the legal solutions. Too often and too often we have that delivery, so I am now talking about the rights of the perpetrators or rather about the protection of their rights, so primarily the right to information. So very often it happens that delivery has not been carried out properly and that these executive procedures are being conducted further and that citizens are not actually informed of what is going on. So we're changing that by changing the delivery rules. Secondly, you know that through other legal solutions, we have left the system of warnings that have been particularly charged. They're abandoned. Today, however, citizens again do not have complete information about what will happen. So here we introduce the obligation that the account which forms the basis for issuing an executive document must contain the notification of the following performance. So we compensate in some ways for a lack of warning and citizens get full information about what will happen next. So, only that account is a credible document similar to that of the account. Furthermore, we've introduced a lot of rights to the perpetrators, not now, but so far. But citizens often do not know how to use them. So here we prescribe the obligation to give instructions of not only more detailed instructions on legal medicines, but also on the creation of these special accounts, etc. So, it's next in line. On the basis of the verdict, we have introduced that the funds in the account will stand for 30 days 60 days just so that citizens can be given a longer period so that they can intervene, but that the funds cannot be withdrawn. So it's 60 days to make a complaint because we've concluded that this 30-day deadline is too short. As for others, what is basic intonation, one of the changes is the desire to speed up the process. So the length of the procedure damages everyone. If you're counting on interest to be 13 percent, then you're losing your entire head in six years. And that's what's worst. When you add to that the cost then the cost and the principal go far beyond once, the cost and interest exceed the principal. So that's what we're just trying to speed up the process here. Through what? One thing about real estate is I'll do it separately, but here it means we commit public notebooks to deliver a solution within 30 days. Because I'm saying absurd is that a citizen's lack of interest makes him pay through it. One thing about employees, getting back to work. We've had a lot of rigid rules so far and actually automatically reject the proposal for a performance which is just going to harm the workers who have succeeded in the dispute. And then the absurd happens, if they're late for something, they'll never be able to get back to work again. We're changing that now. We fully exempt gifts for children and the cost of fees for official travel. We believe that this has been overly resolved so far, because the cost of course for the official journey cannot be completed. It's a real expense, gifts for the child too. In the case of, you know, the previous changes were the first time that we actually defined this salary calculation as an executive correction and how to deal with it. We also have the proper rules. Now we say it's a performance that has a championship. So she'll be spending before everyone else except child support. So in this particular situation, we give workers another right. What I find very important here to emphasize fiduciaryly is we edit differently, meaning fiduciary property. Too often it happens that citizens don't actually have the option, or they don't have the real estate, and they're left with the debt that's actually bigger, they're still in debt. So far, only a believer could choose whether to keep the property in that regime or sell it. Now we're giving it a chance to the debtor. So, that debtor who contracted a fiduciary transfer of ownership he can choose. He can always say and I give up real estate, I'm simplifying now but I don't owe him anything anymore. And that's his choice. And we think it gives people a significantly different and higher degree of protection than it's ever been before. One thing where we can introduce the Council of the First Instance. So what is it? The problem is again if by one of your objections, the complaints that are not, so I won't speak ill of them right now. But let's say that they are, referring to some procedural things in the process of the matter going to a second-degree court as it has been so far. You sometimes lose here at the start of a year two, and let's count if 13%, 26% has been lost on interest. And that's something we also want to avoid, we want to spend it all through the introduction of these councils at the first degree. So at the first degree, one room will be decided in the second and through this will be speeded up by important procedures. The perpetrator may also suggest another subject of the performance which means giving the appropriate, means again that you do not lose something that is pawned, and it is worth it if you can otherwise achieve the purpose, and that is actually the settlement of the credentials. As far as real estate is concerned, we also introduce the biggest, most significant changes in real estate. So, not with the goal of selling it like it was said here, some hundreds of thousands, etc. It'll sell just as much as it does now. So what's done is it goes for sale. But the next goal is to protect both the performers and the believers. Because according to the current system where auctions take place too often, unfortunately in small closed circles where prices are sometimes negotiated and then actually speculatively sold far below the price and still resell everyone. They lose those people who have lost that property, they've been left out on the street, and they haven't really settled their debt again, they lose their faith, they get the speculators. So we think that here as well as anywhere else, one way to counter it is transparency and in this case electronic sales, so it sells via the web. What does that mean? There will be a catalogue containing all the properties where you will be able to see the price, you will be able to see the address of the photo, value assessment, etc. And you will be able to participate in an auction that is anonymous and in fact no one will be able to influence it anymore. So there's no deal. Me so much, you so much. You know that sometimes on purpose, you set a higher price to make the auction fail for the first time, and then it's sold twice and then it's sold for the third time far below the price, etc. It's all happening and citizens feel it on their skin. So, the idea of this electronic auction, that's what I call it, is exactly that transparency and the inability of it because you don't know how much who put it. Also, the guarantee must be paid immediately. Here we give one additional certainty that it's a serious business, not a speculative one. But through it, I hope this won't be necessary to achieve more prices everywhere than they are now, but we're also raising these real estate limits for which real estate can be sold. We believe that in the present situation in particular, they are too low and that valuable properties are sold well below the price due to the poor market situation and that we are therefore raising the limits below which they can be sold. It also takes into account the moment in which we live, we introduce a special category of means the status of the tenant for people who have lost the only existential property so that they can stay for a while, for 6 months, here in the proposal, means that they can stay in it just so that it would be terrible for them to have happened to them in order to make it easier for them. The exact deadlines of the court's dealings in real estate, I said... So that's briefly what we want to achieve with these amendments to the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The basic intensity is to speed up but also to give greater protection and information to debtors. So, on the one hand, the speed of the procedure will increase, through which it will reduce costs and interest, and on the other hand will actually be given one special protection as I said. And one more thing, here in the proposal we have proposed, therefore, limiting the right to compensation for expenses, so a significant reduction in costs. We've suggested that he only has the right to one law firm if it's a process based on a credible money demand document. So it's in the bill of law. In the meantime, the Attorney's Chamber has come up with its proposal to significantly lower tariffs precisely for these categories, so this is one thing that we're probably going to change if that proposal means it contains everything we wanted through this, then we might pull this off. Here, I'm just announcing that possibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67507	Thank you, Minister. A replica of respected representative Branko Vuksic has been reported to your presentation. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67508	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, you were mostly talking about real estate performances. Last year, there were about 5,000 executions about 4300 to 9 months somewhere, and something like that, so about 5,000 executions were done. But you should know that mostly under the quotes "little people" don't raise large loans. And it's not the biggest problem, although it's a big problem, it's the loudest, most dramatic problem, the most painful problem of property loss I'm going to talk about later, but there's one bigger problem, you've finally just pointed it out. You mentioned only one concept of the bar, lawyers. We've made this possible, we've created one caste, we've created a caste of lawyers who deal with these little errands, invisible performances, and often the procedure of the execution is more than the debt of the one who didn't pay for the TV subscription, the water, the gas, the electricity. It's one-off money. Many lawyers who are privileged and who work with state-owned companies are mostly monopolies state-owned companies have become rich. That's hundreds of millions of kunas they've picked up for years. It's a television subscription. You know very well that they fight, that bribes who could do these jobs. It's one of the big problems and we get citizens from day to day. How can the execution procedure cost $1800 and the debt is 300? How can that cost? If you're not going to solve this normally, I think it's one step ahead when it comes to real estate when it's losing what's most valuable, and that's a roof over your head. But let's not forget about these so-called. "small executions" in which one caste is undeservedly rich in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67509	Replicate response, Honored Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67510	So the whole series of things that I've been saying is about exactly how you've marked them "little do-overs" from the right to notice to some other mechanisms. Of course, we've seen the problem at one point the disproportionate cost relative to the principal, and that's why this is the proposal that I've suggested and which I'm actually saying is either going to be corrected through this law or through a tariff that isn't actually in our jurisdiction. So that's something we're going to insist on because he does sometimes show up. I would not agree with all the qualifications you said, but it certainly is not good that this disproportionate is such that a citizen cannot accept it as something that makes sense. Here, so we addressed it, but we didn't just do it because all these things apply to those so-called things. "Little errands." If we contribute and speed up the process, the cost is one story but the interest is terrible. If you cut something short, I said 13% cheaper in a year, and that also applies to this, these warnings different, citizens' rights to be informed, the right to a warning that we're bringing back here today that the citizen doesn't know what's going to happen to him. So that all applies to these so-called. "Little errands." Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67511	Thank you, Minister. Do the representatives of the working bodies of the Board of the Croatian Parliament wish to present reports on this matter? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the SDP club and the respected representative Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67512	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. In 2012, a legislative framework was created for the promotion and further development beyond the court order and all in order to increase the effectiveness of the executive procedure, simplification of the executive procedure, acceleration of the enforcement procedure as well as the discharging of courts. No legal intervention in the executive procedure so far, although everything has gone towards speeding up and simplifying the executive procedure, and the dispensation of courts has not seriously intervened in the implementation of real estate, and it is precisely this type of enforcement that deals most with these amendments. We will all agree that the legal and financial system must be effective but that the rights and dignity of the debtor must be protected and the dignity of the debtor or the perpetrator is threatened precisely in this kind of performance, the real estate performance. These changes allow protection of citizens' dignity but also protection of the rights of the creditors means that the necessary balance has been achieved. These changes will have the greatest impact on the position of the perpetrators. One of the changes is that instead of carrying out real estate, the debtor will be able to offer to confiscate the required assets or the savings stake, or to adopt the fact that the amount he owes will have on him and to settle the trustee's demand within a year. In a more favourable position, they will be citizens to whom real estate will be seized if they do not have other assets to meet certain conditions if they remain resident by paying the rent on market terms. That way, a portion of the dejagging we've seen so far will be avoided. In the process of real estate implementation, the amendment of the law allows the deadline for solving its basic, residential needs and thus strengthens protection, as I have predetermined the performer's dignity. In practice, it happens that due to a lower amount of debt, the execution of a property whose value is multiplely exceeding the amount of demand can now propose a second subject-matter within the legal time limit. An executor who has the property he needs for housing may ask the court to determine the performance of another case. We've witnessed very often that, for example, Ten thousand kuna in debt and the only real estate is required. The perpetrator can now seek the performance of a savings role, movement or any other subject which is not the case now. If there is no other property, it can ask the court as I have already stated the right of residence after the property is sold eventually. According to the new real estate proposal, it cannot be sold below four-fifths or three-fifths of the estimated value at the first or second electronic auction. So, if real estate exists at a relatively high price, then if it comes to selling a contractor except that it could settle the debt, it could come to a situation where there's a certain amount of money left to him, and not that he can't pay the principal, let alone interest, or that it doesn't happen like now many times the case that the contractor is left without real estate, and at the same time he's still in debt and has a more valuable real estate than he's owed. The following papers, which are provided for by these amendments to the Implementing Act, are to be included by the financial agency in the real estate enforcement process, which aims to prevent small and closed implementations where the property is sold below the price. The financial agency will thus assess real estate and conduct electronic real estate auctions and provide detailed information on the properties sold in the executive procedure through an electronic catalogue at national level where real estate photographs will be held with their locations. The auction will be electronic and will no longer be possible for more people to agree on the price. For those who do not use the Internet auction will be held in the offices of the financial agency and special attention goes to what is extremely important to deliver solutions on the performance. The Court of Justice of the Court of Justice will check in the records of the Ministry of the Interior which will be made available by electronic means and which will contribute to preventing the abuse of the officers who have often taken place. Often the addresses they controlled were directed, so the perpetrator did not even know that the executive procedure was under way. The wider scope of the exemption from enforcement is to protect the most vulnerable group of society, which are children, so they are taken away from the performance and amounts to support the child as well as the gift for children. These amendments seek to prevent abuses observed in the executive procedure, enforcement procedures are accelerated, deadlines for action are significantly shortened and the rights of the perpetrators are more protected. Instead of the current practice in which even the simplest cases following the appeal are sent to the County Court according to the new proposal, all simplest cases would be dealt with in the first instance, leading to a major acceleration of the procedure and a reduction of costs and a discharging of the courts that we do not talk about. The cases stemming from complaints that are being resolved by the County Courts are taking a long time, with a one-year debt increase of 15%. The proposal then incorporates a number of things to speed up the process and introduces stricter rules when objecting or appeal in order to avoid calculating or objecting to time. These amendments and amendments to the implementing law seek to simplify and speed up the procedure of enforcement, reduce costs, relieve courts and strengthen legal certainty in the process. These amendments seek to prevent the abuses observed in the executive procedure, the enforcement procedures are accelerated, the rights of the perpetrators are strengthened, while not touching the rights of the believer and, for the sake of the above mentioned SDP Club, will support these amendments and additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67513	Thank you, too, dear colleague. One replica of respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67514	Dear colleagues Fabiančić-Krisjanić, at the very beginning you mentioned the rights and dignity of the perpetrators and it is certainly one of the most important things in this law. In order to truly protect the dignity of the perpetrators, we should pass a long-published law, and the promise of insane joy in this House is a well-known proverb, which is the Law on personal bankruptcy. So long as there is no law on personal bankruptcy, I think that this legal issue is completely insufficient because often what many companies are allowed to do, does not allow, companies say are not to be destroyed because the lives of many people will be destroyed. And how many people who are not companies, who are persons, who are also subject to mobbing or various terrors of monetary institutions can be destroyed. We know well how credits were obtained in Croatia and how many families went bankrupt, and without it a law that would allow, which would confirm the guilt of the person himself, which is the circumstances of some others who led to the bankruptcy of the person. That's what we've announced, many countries know well that they have a law on personal bankruptcy. And just to make it clear when I was talking to privileged lawyers, I was just talking about a group of privileged lawyers because not everyone, many lawyers can only dream of the work that this privileged caste gets.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67515	Replica response, respected representative Vesna Fabiančić-Krisjanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67516	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I agree with you that neither the executive laws nor these amendments and additions can fully protect the dignity of the perpetrators. The executive law, in its very nature, is difficult to expect from him that he will fully protect dignity, in any case this is one big step on that trail, and it is certain that the Law on personal bankruptcy is the one that would ultimately protect dignity. The executive law by nature itself is neither the social category in the Republic of Croatia, but in any legal system and in any way to regulate the executive procedure, it will never satisfy to be fully social and to protect the rights. Long is long, long is everywhere and always has to calm down, and we are certainly making a big step to at least a little amortize that dignity of the perpetrators is not greatly disrupted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67517	Thank you, too, dear colleague. It is the Club of Representatives of Independent and Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67518	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Representatives. First of all, just one sentence about this HZ-Carg, indeed one thing, is that no one is interested in any lost workplace, no failed craftsman, no lost company, no ruined human destiny. We just heard from the minister that the number of executions in the Republic of Croatia has been reduced and that, come on significantly by 24%, that's something. But will that be so, or will the trend simply change? When we look at companies and craftsmen, and this coincides with pre-profit deals, the blockades are reduced, and in citizens, the blockades that today exceed 24 billion kunas are growing. I will repeat once again that the debt of citizens, as on today's day, amounts to 24 billion kuna. In the case of business entities, in 2012, 31.12. means unexecuted payment bases, which are potential perpetrators, that amount was 42.4 billion kuna, 31.12.2013. 33.4 billion kuna. But look what's going on. In December 2013, the debt of citizens with no chance of payment rose by 780 million kuna compared to the previous month, and for 3678 the number of blocked citizens. At the annual package level with 22%, the number of citizens whose accounts are in the blockade, and for as much as 35%, their debt has been raised. At the end of 2012, there were 245.4 thousand citizens with a debt of $17.4 billion. Last year, however, the new 54.4 thousand were marked, so much further blocked, with the total amount of the debt being additionally jumped by 6 billion kuna and today amounts to 24 billion kuna. It means so much in this one economic situation or economic moment in which the country is located and where the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are. The more he settles himself with this law, the more or less we've heard. A significant newspaper proposed by these amendments is the introduction of this financial agency in the real estate enforcement process and I quote that the implementation of the real estate enforcement is often long-term, and due to intransparent sales or ineffective or unfair due to the lack of information from potential real estate customers are not sold in the executive procedure on the one hand, the executions are suspended, the auctions of the executives remain unsettled, although many of them are actually vultures. That doesn't say. But on the other hand, the property is sold at a significantly lower price than its actual value because it's sold as said the minister takes place in these closed circles, in fact they're pushing each other to get as cheap as possible to some "potential" real estate. And that is why the provisions in real estate operations propose to prescribe clear deadlines for taking certain executive actions, as well as the introduction of this financial agency in the real estate assessment process. It may actually be the essence of this law that if the property sold represents the real estate in which the completed dwellings, which is necessary to meet the basic needs of his residence or those which he is obliged to maintain, the perpetrator is given the right to use the property sold for a certain period of time under clearly prescribed conditions. I think we all agree, the fact that, absolutely we can't do without her, the believer on the other hand should also be protected, but in those cases the family should be what's special in order to say the interests of the community, should leave these people as long as possible in that apartment, not force them into the street. I think that's an extremely important question. About this law as adequately as possible, time will show, speak. In the meantime, God forbid it didn't happen last year when it came to these famous Swiss, which is what many of me will say to the innocent, seduced citizens literally turned into black. So people aren't sometimes alone to blame for everything that happens to them, even though in the end, they're going to suffer for it themselves. Many remain unemployed, many companies have no business, it is not the same to do business, work in one Zagreb or in Glina, although the obligations in Zagreb and in Glina are identical. But once again I will say, I repeat, we have 300,000 citizens in the blockade and I agree that it is time to introduce non-personal bankruptcy, but I will call it personal bankruptcy. Yes, I will repeat, it is time to introduce a personal bankruptcy because at this point in the blockade there are 300,000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So what now? God forbid the situation improves, but we saw the trends in 2012 when another 54.4 thousand citizens found themselves in the blockade. Last year alone, I repeat their debt amount has jumped 6 billion kunas and today it amounts to 24 billion kuna. And I think we'll all agree, it's never been less worth a thousand kunas than it is today, but it's certainly never been a thousand kunas if you have more money than it is today. Never have those thousand kunas been harder to earn or save, and like other colleagues, I personally advocate the introduction of this personal bankruptcy. It is also true what my predecessors said that these most valuable or valuable properties often go below the real price and in some ways should be avoided. Is that going to achieve electronic bidding? We'll see about that now, but I'm sure it won't help that process. We, as Mr Vuksic said before 2013, had a cca 5 thousand commissions over the property. But as other MPs have noticed, we have no doubt said maybe a hundred thousand small, invisible peaks, meaning HRT's water, electricity, local self-government, or those utility fees, highways I don't know what not and that's something that sometimes offends. It should also be added to the tax administration's tasks, etc. And that's why this institute, which is also said to be first of all, is perhaps one of the keys to this law. First, give the man a chance to pay for it, give him a certain time limit to do so in a decent manner and then do it clearly. And finally, below 3/5, you really shouldn't be selling someone's real estate, not having cases that "10 thousand" let's say that someone's debt makes an apartment worth 50 or more thousand euros. But regardless of all this law is certainly progress with a number of new institutes, it should be welcomed as such, and it is especially important to make sure that the executives always protect a clear believer still do not turn into lenders. And once again we have 300 thousand citizens who are in blockade and execution, I'm afraid that in due course there may be more than a few. And another institute that's worthy of praise. In order to protect those most vulnerable groups of companies, these are those who are helpless means of children, in addition to the provision on receipts that are excluded from enforcement, an exemption is proposed from the application of the amounts to support the child paid to a special bank account. And it's absolutely fine because that child or children still in the plural should be protected in every way. All in all, we as a club will raise our hand to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67519	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. We have replicas. The first replica of the respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67520	Dear colleague Cain, you mentioned a personal bankruptcy or, as I said, a personal bankruptcy. Let me get this straight. We know that millions, tens of millions, hundreds of millions of kunas of various debts are being written off in the pre-profit settlement of companies, companies and it is very powerful in Croatia. Most of it is denied by the state in part, and even some banks give up some of their money, which is very difficult. However, citizens are in a subordinate position. Why wouldn't the citizens have the same rights? Because often citizens come into an unspeakable situation, lose apartments, the only roof over their heads because they're victims of interest. We know well that this government has also made some efforts to help people who have taken loans for flats in francs. However, that is not enough because many cannot repay because we know what a sad situation is in the office for registering the unemployed, because I think that is the only thing it serves. So why don't you write off individuals who, especially, aren't guilty but are primarily the state that didn't intervene in time. And we know well that often, it appeared in the media, it wasn't debated here in the Parliament, many people who have small incomes, especially pensioners, were killed, the dangers of the house due to long TV subscription, electricity or water. So the local communities intervened, and the money was being collected to save them. Because the insensitivity of this society is fantastic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67521	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67522	Not why citizens should have the same status, I think that citizens should even have a more favourable status than business entities or companies. If companies had privileged status in this country, however, not for the last two years but 5, 7 or I don't know how many years then maybe citizens should also have a higher level of that relationship one small bonus now compared to some other business entities and I don't think any of these business entities would blame the Government or the Croatian Parliament on such solutions. But I want to say once again, in 31.12.2012, we had 67,000 384 indivisible business entities that owed the state, I don't know who, 42.4 billion kuna. 31.12., so we can say on today we have 62,000 such entities, 5 thousand less entities that owe $33.4 billion. Where it comes from, it's primarily the result of these pre-fashion deals. So indifference in some way decreases, giving the business subject a new chance. But the problem is citizens, in a year we have 54.4 thousand people in the blockade, so 54 thousand. And that blockade in a year is more than six billion kuna compared to 2012. And today, we have 300 thousand citizens who are in a blockade, and that's why, like you, I suggest a personal bankruptcy institute, let's call it personal bankruptcy, I don't know how, but in some ways, people need to get together.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67523	Thank you very much. A new replica of the respected representative Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67524	Thank you very much. Comrade Cain, you have provided good statistics regarding the number of citizens who are 54 thousand and 400 and who owe 24 billion kuna at the end of 2013. But what you didn't say and it would be good to see the structure of those debtors, so you would see that there are many among them who belong to so-called. medium and medium upper layers. So doctors, teachers, teachers, engineers, etc. It is a very interesting phenomenon and we would expect quite something else in the structure of these debtors. Furthermore, you were also talking about comatoseness, so I would say one to the interest rate of the believer. When those five thousand properties last year went to the age so I could say this picturesque, which are sold almost invaluable. Well, it doesn't matter to the believer, so what if we watched how much the debtor would estimate his real estate, his house, his apartment, and if we looked after it was sold then you'd see a drastic and dramatic difference because the bank or the bank as you like, it's important to settle. And very often these debts are a much smaller amount than what an executive sells that property. And that's the injustice of a performance that won't be improved by this bill either.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67525	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67526	No, I didn't say Mr. Grubisic that 54 thousand citizens are in a blockade, 300 thousand citizens on today are in a blockade... Yes, in a year plus 54 thousand compared to 2012 for 6 billion and those blockades amount to 24 billion kuna. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Right, it's painful when middle-class people are what should be the most vital in one society teachers, teachers, I don't know, doctors in a blockade. And there's no perspective society without a middle layer. But imagine if that's the case with people who make 1,000 to 2000, maybe up to 3,000 euros, what about that poor girl who dreams of working? What about the unemployed who worked until yesterday are no longer working, which is with the workers at a certain time that the wages arrive or do not arrive, which is with farmers who cannot sell their agricultural products etc. It is absolutely necessary to take care of the middle layer because without it there is no perspective state, as it is also necessary to take care of each citizen regardless of his material status.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67527	Third replica, the esteemed representative Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67528	Thank you. Dear colleague, you have expressed great concern in your presentation that there has been a sale of real estate below the real price and may not have been concluded from your presentation that these amendments to the law in this field have introduced significant improvements and newspapers. Five or six years ago, the real estate, to remind you, was also sold for 1 kuna, which was an irrational solution, unreasonable, socially insensitive, and did not end the debt. By amendments, I believe that these were amendments 5.10.2012, however, a solution was made that the property could not be sold for at least one half of the value. Now these changes are further facilitated and improved, in my view, by this solution that real estate can be sold at the first auction only up to 4/5 of the established value, realistically estimated value, and at the second auction cannot be sold below 3/5 of the established value. I think it represents a significant additional protection and significantly facilitates the position of people who have found themselves in an invisible financial situation and represents a guarantee that these properties will nevertheless,...reals will sort out this existing debt in some way. In addition, I think that with this institute that we have electronic real estate auctions, we are going to have an impact on increasing demand for real estate so that I believe that more real estate will be allowed to be sold already at the first auction means at least 4/5 values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67529	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67530	I have made it clear that I support this law and, among other things, I have apostrophe of this particular case that at that second auction the value of this property cannot fall below its 3/5 value and that is exactly what I would say is the biggest newspaper and the greatest quality of this law itself. And not that you have a case, I don't know who mentioned it before, maybe Mr. Grubisic, senior pensioners, people who get into a situation that because of several thousand kunas de facto under quotes, they're left without a house. And that's exactly what one of the newspapers is, that one quality that makes it necessary to support this law. I think I also said that in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67531	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is the HDZ Club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67532	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. We're actually talking about the consequences again today, not talking about the causes. We're talking about amendments to the executive law. Remember that one of the first interventions in our legislation of this coalition government was an amendment to the law that was proposed to introduce a particular category of public perpetrators who should have done a good part of these affairs under this law. It was also said in the amendments to the law that it is now much more qualitatively resolved by changes and that there will be no need for permanent and new changes, but we can see that this promise has also been given up quite quickly. Now we are talking again about amendments to the Executive Act, we have heard different statistics, but the fact is that around 300,000 accounts of Croatian citizens have been blocked and I am sure, I dare say that they have not self-initiatedly decided not to settle their obligations but rather that their economic situation simply does not give them the opportunity to settle their obligations. When you look at the rise of those who are in the blockade and who are the subject of the performance, 50 and a few thousand more, that's the exact number that has increased and the number of unemployed at the Employment Service. This does not necessarily mean that these are the same people, but this is about one tendency that in the next 6 months we can expect another 50,000 people at the Employment Service and new indications of those who will be fulfilled because they are unable to meet their obligations. The other thing that's important to mention here, when it comes to where the Executive Law is headed, it's talked about a resident here, I'm not talking about a caste or a business that's being carried out through the execution. As a result of the transfer of powers to the FINA which, under this law, should now also be a body which will establish the market value of real estate, raises a legitimate question whether FINA is able to do so at all. Whether FINA is that body that can assess the value of the property to be subject to the executive procedure. Which is what it is or how it is trained, which are the staff in FINA who can do this if they've done this job so far except in a small section for special needs tax administration, mostly just judicial witches. We are convinced that such a solution is not a good solution and that the FINA is not an adequate body, is not a body that can respond to that request. What it was all about was that the disproportionateness in debt in terms of the value of the property that becomes the subject of the operation and is said to be now resolved by the electronic auction of real estate which, however, assumes this electronic auction to pass a special law on the implementation of a property that is not yet available. Therefore, if it is transparent how you were in the introduction and said you would make the sale by electronic means, then all assumptions should be established that this could happen. But on the other hand, it doesn't guarantee what you said about real estate being sold below some market value. The very fact that they will be sold via the Internet or, as it is said, by electronic auctions does not guarantee the value of these properties, and the second question is whether, given the small debts, it is normal to charge these debts by selling real estate. There is some possibility to choose another way of guaranteeing your obligations. What I think is important to say and what we didn't hear about in the introduction, but it was obvious that Independent Croatian trade unions were asking the Government's proposal that, apart from those child benefits and some other fees paid by employers to workers be exempt from the exercise, so that the fees for transport to work and work are a field supplement, maritime supplement, support for the disability of workers, support for the death of workers or members of the rope family as well as union social assistance are also to be receipts that are excluded from the executive procedure. I think given the state of society, the fact that you want standards or the paid power of our population is something that you need to think about, too, that some of these givings are exempt from the executive procedure. What can also be said is that the possibility under this bill, that it is not guaranteed for its debts only to the real estate I think it would be if you wanted the motionary correctly to explain in which case such a replacement for guaranteeing its obligations is possible. In fact, it is not such a simple solution to the question, but it limits the possibility of you guaranteeing for your obligations instead of real estate to some other value. There is a whole set of preconditions that must be met in order for you to be able to replace the guarantee at all, so I will say that it is necessary to meet the 6 conditions set out in this Article 84a cumulatively. and on these terms, the discretion of the decision has a court without the right to appeal to the perpetrators. Therefore, the debtor must submit a proposal within 8 days of receiving the decision on the real estate operation. The court must obtain the belief that the property on which a particular activity represents a property in which the debtor is resident and which is necessary to meet his basic housing needs and the housing needs of persons who are legally obliged to maintain. The court must gain confidence that the debtor, for justified reasons, could not have cashed in on his own part of the property that he proposed as a new subject of the exercise in order to appease the believer. The court must obtain the belief that the execution of the new case will be fully settled by the creditor. If the court does not consider that due to the change in the subject-matter of the exercise, it would be significantly depriving or making it difficult or that the believer could suffer more damage than the credentials' consent if the performance was determined on the property on which the mortgage was entered for the benefit of the credentials that triggered the execution, which is, in most cases, the very property. And the court must gain confidence that the believer will be fully calmed within one year of making a decision on the debtor's proposal. So, the whole series of restrictions is when it is possible to replace the guarantee for your liabilities that you had on the property with some other value, and that is why we don't think it's quite simply an opportunity to say that we're easing the position of the perpetrators in relation to the regulations so far. Given the situation in which we are, given the population's paid power, the fact is that today, instead of thinking about how to enable these people to live a decent life and the possibility to settle their obligations, we are going again in some way by repressive measures, we are actually making it more difficult to make that position in one of these forms of amendments to the executive law. And that's why we stand for what we said at first. It is not the idea to strengthen repression at this time, but the idea that the government finally finds the economic potential for the growth of these people's living standards, and then they will not be in trouble to meet their obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67533	Thank you too, dear colleague. We've got a set of replicas, so let's get in line. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67534	Dear colleague Mlakar, I fully agree with that first sentence of yours that you gave in your presentation, and she was talking about the consequences, not the causes. It seems that if we continue to do so in a year we will only talk about this law where we will all be completed. If 300 thousand accounts are blocked and the facts show 50,000 more citizens of the Republic of Croatia with blocked accounts then the startling sentence of Minister Hajdaša-Doncic is that without remorse he will fire 1100 workers, cut the salary 20% and without remorse will send HZ Cargo into bankruptcy. Does he have a conscience? Is the goal of this country to end people on the street or is it the government's obligation to find a solution at least for its businesses? So that those people who are threatened by the performance, those people who won't be able to pay their basic needs tomorrow, like direct expenses, and we know that at the food and director's costs we're recordrs in the world at the expense, so we're all going almost to it. Yes, we should talk about the causes here in the Parliament, and when it comes to here, when yesterday the same prime minister gave us another lecture then it is said that this government is doing everything best and that it is actually the fault of the workers, of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Well, it is likely that the second time this government will choose some other people and some other citizens who will not deliberately be in debt and will deliberately not pay their bills.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67535	Replica's response, the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67536	My colleague Vuksic, I disagree with you. The blame is on the people, the people don't see how they have a capable, high-quality government, and you're surprised that Minister Hajdaša-Doncic doesn't feel guilty. I see it every day when I get opportunities through the media to see his performances. He is the author of the syntagma that for 5m euros he will make a corridor through Neum and thus connect the south of Croatia with the rest of the country. And he's being bit by the conscience and today because today he's talking about the Peljesk Bridge as the best solution his government has come up with. Therefore, the government is extremely capable. The government is a set of these capable ministers, the only problem is that neither we here nor the people have yet to see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67537	Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67538	Thank you very much. A colleague of the Mlakar you have well noticed about, in fact, would say medically about the causal relationship, the state of affairs in the country, the society and the management of this country. Today, there are 15,000 workers who do not receive salaries in companies that are mostly owned by the state. We have also brought them into the law of punishment, and therefore We have made provision for those who do not pay their wages. Who are these people? Ministers! If it's a state-owned company, here's the RIZ, the Immunological Institute, HZ Cargo, GREDELJ, the Kaštelan greenhouse, and see how many, nine months later, people don't get paid and work. Who's responsible? Who's responsible tomorrow? Who's responsible for the work that's going to happen because people don't have money? They're in a blockade, they're going to run on their real estate as the best part of what they have at all. So we need to file criminal charges against those whose companies, states, so ministers. And as for Mr. Hajdash-Doncic and no cramping on the face of a statement saying that 1100 workers go, and Cargo goes bankrupt and he's been running the negotiations for a year on the tender with... And he gives up all the time to... say in the end I won't do it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So what are we talking about? Well, it's like that walk he used to smoke in rebellion, isn't that the medicine man from Slunj? That's how he behaves, too. ... I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's close, isn't it? So we have these kind of constituencies in this government, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67539	Thank you very much. Replica's response, the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67540	My colleague Grubisic, so you have now connected only one part of the problem with these citizens who are unfortunately the subject of this law, and what else was speaking is those famous pre-departure settlements where, someone has already spoken, the state, the same state that is now proposing to think about how they will sell your property and how they will assess their value in view of your debts, let's say for these services provided by public companies at the same time, that state forgives debts, extends debt repayment deadlines to very interesting clients to say the state budget. Unfortunately, at least what the media conveys, it's always some companies that are very well directed at what the government will do and always at the right moment manage to get a new time for non-compliance with their obligations but they will never be in the process of performance nor at all in the opportunity for the state to charge against them what they are really obliged to pay. Instead, instead of taking 800 or 900 million kunas of commitment to some of these companies, we are doing our job and inventing further options from the delivery problem, so we will impale them on advertising boards to not know what to do with citizens. What the government doesn't understand, no matter how much they suck these citizens out, won't be enough to get out of the situation we're in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67541	Honorable representative Drazenko Pandek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67542	Thank you. My dear colleague, in your debate, you pointed out that it was said and when it gave up the introduction of a public enforcement institute that there would be no further amendments to the executive law. Well, I don't think there are any further changes in that sense. These changes that have now come, I think, would follow and that the Institute of Public Executives is instituting it. These changes make sense whether or not the execution is carried out by a public executive or by a lawyer or by a public notary. They focus on improving delivery, therefore, on speeding up the process but also on facilitating the position of the creditors and these changes would be necessary and necessary anyway. Furthermore, your remarks on the introduction of the electronic auction system are not objective in my opinion because it objectively seems to me a good solution. The basic economic principle of supply and demand tells us that if the potential customer circle is expanded it will be sold faster and for a better price. That's exactly what this solution allows. Now anyone who has access to the Internet by any computer on any mobile phone will be able to immediately see what the subject is auctioned and the power will react. Not to mention that I'm convinced this solution will help and suppress speculation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67543	Replica's response, the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67544	I'm going to apologize to my colleague Pandek right away, because you've turned on the wrong microphone and your voice is difficult to reach me and I hear worse, but if I've heard you correctly, you're saying that electronic auctioning will be a better way to guarantee that real estate will be sold at real market value. My thesis was and I am staying with her, the fact that instead of the public auction that we know a smaller group was gathering, which, if you want to do so in a Colloquial way, traded these properties and reduced the value of the tricks of this process, will not necessarily be guaranteed in electronic form, that these properties will be sold at real value, especially due to the fact that the ministry is now proposing that the market value of these properties should be determined by FINA. FINA isn't the body that's ever done that. FINA has no expertise in its composition dealing with this problem, it may hire new ones, I didn't want to spread the subject but about the value of the property only the relevant opinion so far you could get from the witches, I mean building professions, correct me if I'm wrong. And they weren't usually employees of the Financial Agency. As you want to defend, I understand this proposal, but I don't agree with you at all, so I don't think you should have intervened like that, and I didn't want to talk about that, because according to some data, the costs for the performer are going to be getting bigger and bigger and less.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67545	Thank you very much. Now replica inside the club. Dear Representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67546	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Mlakar, you presented in your presentation that this is 50,000 citizens more blocked than in 2012 in the first month, as today is exactly two years, let's say in some relationship it's not 50,000, 90 thousand and the debt has increased by 10 billion. Despite the daily meaning of the FINE, some come out of the top, new, new entry. It's a circle that has entered and more and more citizens are poorer. They're families and individuals that don't work at all anymore. What's the problem? The problem is when these people have a current account, they come with a card to the store, they want to buy something for themselves for that day, they find out only on the register that they are blocked, intransparency of the procedure for these small performances where they do not know that they are in the process when they are performed either by Croatian waters or I do not know any other public enterprise or HT or any other telecommunications house. The problem is that people only find out the moment they start paying for something. They don't have any notices, notices only come later and then they just get in trouble, they get in trouble because his current account's been blocked. In order to get out of this twice, the bank has to unblock your account, in a minus you can't charge for it, you have to pay money that banks don't allow and citizens are sometimes and for a whole month without income. That's what's really bothering them, especially the pensioners. Not all pensioners especially in rural areas of FINU 50 m from their apartment or house. They take full pensions in the meaning of the counter law because they are unable to open a sub-account on FINI and that state has made no mechanisms to correct it. We have a different attitude when you owe HEP, HEP completes you and shuts off your power. It's a double penalty for one debt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67547	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67548	Comrade Boric, thank you! I'm sorry, I was wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67549	Honorable representative Ante Babic, new replica inside the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67550	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My friend Mlakar, you were talking about 300,000 blocked accounts but you said while some people are grieving and crying, others are doing business or being set up like that. I think I understand you very well. But economic analysts predict another 50,000 blocked accounts by the end of the year. I'm sorry that this correlation you've been saying has not been heard by Mr. Milenic so he can react to this and see exactly what the cause is. If the only reaction is to change and supplement this Executive Act, then it's a bad measure of this government. It might be better given the state of affairs that have never been worse so far, if this government had taken advantage of this time instead of amending and supplementing this Implementing Law, to certain economic measures that would certainly improve the economic opportunity in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67551	Thank you very much. You called Minister Orsat Milenic to react. There's no business ability to react to replicas. Of course. It'd be good, but we didn't see that coming. Thank you very much. Until they finish their lines even if they're inside the club. The new replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67552	Thank you. Comrade Mlakar, how many of these 65,000 people have lost their jobs in the past two years? Also, it's very interesting that FINA, the then ZAP, who was unable to run or pay traffic in this country in 2002, has suddenly become the center of the world. All of a sudden through the FINA is going on in this country, and no one's asking themselves if these people are able to do their job there, are they educated? Look, they're running pre-war deals today, they're running this thing together. Speaking of surplus settlements, Croatia's indivisibility has fallen by more than 12 billion kuna in administrative agreements. So it's also likely that with this Executive Procedure Act going to apply, we'll probably do the same by administrative means by a few dozen thousand, the number of blocked citizens will probably be passed by someone who's against, that the official conduct of the FINA has been initiated, that it's no longer blocked. So we're creating a totally wrong picture, we're not going to admit where mistakes have happened in the past few years, no matter what political options or maybe this is the way we throw so-called. President's tennis ball to those who have experience with mass performances. Look only at the basis of the lawsuits of employees in protest and in the police as many as certain offices have withdrawn money, post one, two, three thousand types of notices or proceedings for the initiation of court disputes, charge the executive as much and so much and you have no chance of losing it. Unfortunately today for parking, for some fees you have to pay, within those expenses that every citizen has to pay Croatia, you have a warning as much as you want. Obviously, the laws are being worked out maybe for some who have several thousand items in the drawer just waiting to charge a thousand, two kunas...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67553	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67554	You've now opened this topic that would deserve a little longer debate in the Parliament, which is the FINA's jurisdiction. Why did I object to this decision that FINA would establish the market value of real estate? Because among other things, you said you were dealing with pre-determined settlements. It also deals with a unique register of public and state officials which was a major topic while HDZ was in power, but now hides the results of this register as a foot snake, and on the basis of this register a single payout system was introduced. As for state and public officials, we see how well this is going because the completed project that this government didn't want to admit took over, it's been waiting two years to launch a single payout procedure, but they've managed to do it, I think for 54 thousand people so far. We all know that she pays neatly late in health, perhaps as some other measure, not only as a problem of FINA, but the disciplines of people who fought for their law certain rights, but precisely because of this almighty FINA, I'm afraid this is another extra job that she won't be able to do well in time because she simply doesn't have the capacity for now to do this job successfully. And because of all of this, it might be better if this was a pre-executive law for citizens like we had pre-nuptial settlements, not that this is how we solve the debt issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67555	Dear Representative Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67556	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, colleague Mlakar, I didn't quite remember how much you claimed this was a change in the executive law in order, third, fourth, fifth or sixteenth. Whether every third or second month changes the executive law by adapting it to anyone and to anything. In this we see that there are certainly no improvements of importance and that nothing spectacular will happen since the number of orderly deliveries that the parties will not know at all or will not be able to react. Knowing the informational literacy in Croats, we can say that 850 thousand use emails, that about 57,000 have internet connections, but therefore we should all spend all these days surfing, watch whom the post office arrived on the internet, but whether it is possible for the new business to open up with the search and purchase of real estate on the e- ad, probably to assess incompetent or unprofessional people, and perhaps those employees themselves will be customers, buyers or... with these properties that will be completed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The question is really why will it be FINA that will evaluate the value of the property since it has no insight into the tax on real estate sales. Tax administration has it, there are average prices in certain areas of our Republic, in Dalmatia bigger, in Slavonia much less, in Zagreb such a middle so they have some framework by which they can give an estimate of the value of the property according to age, size, etc. I think these frequent amendments to the executive law should have been replaced by the authorities' offices, thus reducing the pressure on courts, and also making it impossible for individual law offices to carry out such executive cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67557	Thank you. Replica's response, the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67558	I don't agree with you, I'll tell you why. It doesn't matter, there weren't 16 amendments to the executive law, it's only one thing and that's when this government came on stage, and that's to erase the possibility that there might be a public enforcement service because it didn't suit someone. Even the government went so far that she was willing to compensate for the damage she had done to the persons who had obtained the status of public perpetrators precisely because she did not want to leave them part of the jobs that were obviously luxuriant jobs for a permanent group of people very interesting, and then it was better to solve the performance in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67559	Business conditions have been met for the justice minister, the respected Orsat Milenic, to appear on behalf of the proposing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67560	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, two technical things, this is the first amendment to the executive law, and second of all, the law on implementation is the next day point means going after this. So I don't know where the information that this law is gone is because he's telling you now it's in the agenda. So it's purely technical, if we're taking the facts at least to check what's on the agenda. The second thing, as to any allegations of repression at all that I've understood, the increase in repression, look at the laws that have been passed, let's say in 2010, there was no possibility of replacing the funds, we're introducing it now. You say she's restrictive but now you can replace her for the first time. Why didn't you introduce a 2010 liberal asset swap? We're bringing her in for the first time now. You didn't give her up at all. So I don't understand why something that liberalizes and facilitates the position of debtors is now being declared a repression. Look what it says in the text of the law. We're talking about who estimates, and if you look at the text of a law which is the same then the court is assessed by its own free judgment and determines the value of the property, not the court's expert. The court can use it, it doesn't have to, it's a provision of the law. So let's take a look at this, and then we can talk about how it's going to work and what it's going to do. We're talking about FINA, so when was FINA introduced as an executive agency? When did she start acting on accounts? She began to act long before this government arrived. We've been making it easier for the citizens through a whole series of institutes here, but we're making it easier in a system that we haven't set up. It's a system established long before us, then you were the same you said that FINA was ideal, that it could work, that it would work. I agree with that that can work, but I don't know why something is now being challenged that was introduced before this government. So the system of enforcement by accounts through FINA was introduced long before us and he's doing well and I agree and I don't know why now that we're introducing some elements here that affect us is being called that we introduced that system, we haven't introduced him. But it's stupid and I don't know I'll never say what it was before and it just started talking about it here because we're going to say, who introduced the collection system by the FINA? Now we relax it through a whole series of mechanisms. If something is with them you think it's not good absolutely I'm always for discussion and you know we'll respect it. What we've been saying about who's going to evaluate, is our proposal for FINA. You will see the third law from our package which is here he foresees if the Law on Exclusion is to finally establish a methodology for assessing the value of all real estate and that will apply here. So finally, in all the procedures that will be conducted for the first time in Croatia, we will have a unique methodology. Yeah, that'll do it. FINA's just an agent. It shall, if it does not have a certificate and authorisation, not exercise it or engage one who needs or will have certified staff. We've been working the law with them, and they say they can carry it out the way it's supposed to be here. So these are some things we predicted, but I'm saying now we're talking like we're repressing this law. So these are the mechanisms that were introduced long before us, we relax them here exactly the opposite. So that's what twisting the thesis is. Public auction, so logic is things if three people agree to participate and know each other, it's much more likely to damage the fourth one than if you don't even know who it is and what amount it bids. Well, it makes sense that whoever really wants to buy it will be giving real value, there will be no deal. I mean, it shows every auction of that kind, we didn't make it up again. It's an institute that exists and that whenever you can use it should use it. So here's a whole series of institutes that relax what exists now because we're aware of the social moment we're living in and we've seen what needs to be changed. We talked about the exceptions to the performance, we predicted here what we said gifts for children, travel expenses etc., about everything else we talked about, we estimated that this is what is technically possible at this moment and between the two readings if it can be extended we are absolutely for it and that's something we stand behind. But now to set things up like this is being introduced. Fiducia, so if we're talking, why didn't you relax fiducia five years ago? We first introduce a fiduciary here to be able to choose a debtor, so we go in the debt's interest whether he can choose whether to leave the property or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67561	Thank you very much. We have registered replicas, respected representative Josip Boris Replic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67562	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, the fact is that these days we're bombarded with certain stories about energy certificates, we're talking about real estate sales, meaning natural, citizen citizens, legal persons, means no advertising, no real estate sales that don't have an energy certificate. My question to you is simple, can real estate be completed that doesn't have an energy certificate because it's also a certain purchase process? Has the state given itself rights that do not give to individuals or citizens? Is that what you saw in the law, and what can your citizens expect? Is someone going to take their apartment because they don't have an energy certificate?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67563	The reply to the replica, the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67564	So, I don't know how someone would take your apartment because you don't have an energy certificate, I really don't know... And here there's a whole series of objects that can be the subject of execution. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Intruder: colleague.]] I can't accept the proposal, if that's the proposal you put it on, so what, properties that don't have an energy certificate can't be carried out? If that's the suggestion, put it on. But I think I'm telling you right now that he can't get through.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67565	Thank you very much, we have all kinds of options for the Rules of Procedure, not from the bench, please. Honorable representative Davorin Mlakar. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67566	Dear Mr. Minister, give yourself a break and relax a little, you're always surprised at something. We're talking about your law that's on the agenda today, you're doing this to us that you didn't do five years ago or I don't know how many years ago you did next. I'm going to remind you and I said that in my opening statement, by way of the duty of this government, one of the first measures you've implemented was the abolition of the law on public enforcement. That's where the story begins. Not from FINA today and who will evaluate the value of real estate and your praises are worthy of our role in correcting whether the court or experts will make a decision out of the value of real estate. And I'd like you to point me out to how many times the judge has made a different decision on what an artisan or archeology would be determined by building witches but it's a completely different topic. My intervention was to see that you were a different and different government. Why do you need to go back to the story you didn't do five years ago? Five years ago, or more precisely three years ago, we suggested that they do the work specifically organized if you wanted a system of public contractors, but someone in this government didn't respond. Whether the experience in the government, the people who were engaged in the performance, was to this extent significant that you did not engage in this work by public perpetrators, this remains a question that we did not get an answer from this government but probably time and statistics on who was doing this job better and more lucratively.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67567	Thank you very much. A new replica of the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67568	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, see logically that FINA deals with financial affairs. I don't think there's anything disputed about blockages or anything. However, here you are the principles of a very interesting topic, which is that because of the standards of Croatian citizens, because of the large number of unemployed, unfortunately a very narrow circle of people who will participate in these public auctions, a very narrow circle of people who have money that will be able to buy. And maybe there was a problem with public perpetrators because in this way they simply direct things. You can't tell me there weren't systematic public auctions, there were, too, in a certain way. However, I say, it is your right to think of defending certain thesis but definitely FINA will have to set up a whole new service, which means a whole new cost and that new cost someone has to pay. And we keep saying we're fucking the country. If some things aren't paid here anymore, they'll be paid elsewhere, and we'll treat it as something markety, eventually citizens don't care who they pay for. He wants to pay the state, he wants to pay Janka, Mark, FINA, INA, this, that, he has to pay for it. And he's in the interest that when someone does to him what his poor girl has, because unfortunately only in most cases is the poor one, because whoever has her anyway wants him to have one or not, he doesn't care whether someone charges him 10, 5 or 3 for that exercise. So that's the key thing to how much this performance is ultimately going to cost. And in this bill of law, you don't have a single word to say. So FINA has people trained for certain procedures. It's not like there's a house worth 300, 400 thousand euros in whether someone is going to estimate 20 or 30% more expensive because tomorrow someone can start a procedure against the one who's been carrying out the exercise that he's unreally evaluated and raised anyone who's ever competed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67569	Thank you very much. A new replica, respected representative of Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67570	Dear Minister, you said that what can now be protected will not be done. It means technical possibilities. However, how can the cost of transport be paid to work from work? Man can't travel to work, you're denying him the opportunity to travel to work, field support for the disability of workers. Well, then, in the event of the death of a family member, he can't bury him. I mean, there are no technical options, then we're not gonna do it. I mean, it's incomprehensible to people, it's living people, it's not machines, it's not computers, so you're saying in your computer, it's unknown, the computer can't find it. And the second thing that's commendable is that the wrong people didn't get carried out once, this law recognizes this. I'm going to tell an anecdote, very short, and at 6 o'clock, the cops picked me up from bed and drove me to court and I didn't know why they were taking me to court. And at 10:00, there was a debate, and I walked into the courtroom and the lady said why you didn't support this lady. I turn around, says the lady is not my son. He's got the same name and last name. I suffered trauma in those four hours, however, I was a journalist and the Journalist Society reacted. And when it's done to someone, well, just a small sum, the pensioner, because he happens to have the same name and last name and he doesn't owe it, and it's certainly commendable. But what we Labourists are going to give as an amendment is absolutely certain that there can be no excuse to say the computer doesn't recognize, and now we're going to perform support in the event of the death of a member of the rope family sitting on the bill or any other or expense compensation. I think that's absurd.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67571	Replicate response, Honored Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67572	Thank you very much. We will absolutely consider this amendment and the proposal. As you can see, we here have expanded the circle of what cannot be done. Here is the basic problem that employers often pay exactly that amount as a single amount and there is no distinction what it is to pay, which it can not. So put the amendment, if it's possible absolutely.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67573	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67574	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Here I personally welcome every shift, a good shift that goes towards making it easier for citizens in these difficult situations, especially when it comes to performances. I'm going to start right this way, so I'm going to start with material expenses. So it wouldn't always be that we're just criticizing, that we don't have a proposal, so the situation is next. No material costs are recognised, just a large number of these material costs, and these 300 000 citizens who have their blocked gyro accounts depend on them. And now we have a situation where a worker gets a fee for transportation from work and to work, but his fee is done because the system in FINA doesn't recognize such payments. On the other hand, it's funny to say at all that FINA doesn't recognize anything when every day we're putting on more and more obligations than pre-fashion deals, so now here's the real estate assessment and so on, which just means that FINA is quite capable of making a very good sophisticated software where they're going to do something if they want to. So this excuse to include material costs and... what counterpart Vuksic has now said, and the citizens, or workers, warn that in the largest item, the most important item of their concern is that they have just paid the costs from the basics of going to work and from work and field supplement they get because that is the money that a citizen must invest during the month in order to earn a salary at all, and then when that month passes, he is essentially in an even greater minus, while he has the commission in the current account. Here's the minister I'm glad this is the first reading, so I'm going to suggest to you by the second reading that you talk to the Ministry of Finance, since everyone with 1.1 bonded to submit a JOP form, and the JOP form as such recognizes, for the purposes of the Tax Administration, what basis anyone has received any compensation. So then there you have an analysis of all possible payments because the IRS is trying to determine the proportion of the origin of the property and the property they want to see on what basis someone acquired that property. So, there exactly you have listed for each kuna that someone got for what they got it for, whether they got it for a child's allowance, whether they got it for travel expenses, whether they got it for regression as an annual board, so in this part you can agree with the Ministry of Finance and I don't see any obstacles to using that software in this part of FINA so that they can connect and that FINA can recognize that part, that part isn't being done at all. It is extremely important and I welcome that the perpetrator be informed that he is in the process of carrying out because so far there have indeed been various situations, and the citizens have been almost unable to solve something for their own benefit. The money was taken from the current accounts, charged, spent a lot of time, the citizens were uninformed in which way, who and how to turn to so that money could be recovered, and no one else was able to pay back for those days when that money had traveled somewhere or had been unauthorized, so the citizens were therefore also damaged on that side. What I would suggest until the second reading of the minister is as follows. We now have a situation, i.e. I think it's still up-to-date, so the public notebooks got a certain job for the big houses, and they were sending accounts to accounts that were long ago, and these accounts were also done, the citizens weren't informed, the money went somewhere while I proved that it was an old account or that it was invalid. So, there were a lot of problems, so I suggest you find somewhere else to read the possibility that judges, i.e. public notebooks, be in bonds before they give, given that they have to have a credible correction, and in this case, the invoices on which they run the operation, that, before they give that exercise in the procedure itself, they will assess whether the invoice is obsolete or not, and whether the invoice came in 2014, and it has on it as a proof document a date that is as such, as a basis for paying already out of date. And I think we would also solve a large number of these situations here. We are unfortunately looking at a lot of everything in segments, and at one point we are discussing bankruptcy and pre-determination, and on the other hand here we are discussing citizens and the performance. Once again, I withdraw how important it would be to seriously consider the law on personal bankruptcy that this law should be passed as soon as possible, that the citizen also has the right to write down by the same rules of the game, i.e. to get the opportunity to write off some debt so that the citizen, in some way, can, therefore, make his obligations in some kind of reprogramme easier to settle which, unfortunately, is not the case now. We have a situation that the IRS is doing very well for the citizens of 1000, 2000 kuna, and on the other hand, this same IRS forgives 24, 27 or already how many million kunas to legal entities. We won't talk about pre-fashion deals now because we don't have enough time. Go ahead. [[Intruder Batinić: Comrade Tyrelli I apologize only for a moment please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67575	The delegation of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament came to visit the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Affairs of the Great National Assembly of the Republic of Turkey. As part of the tour of the Croatian Parliament building, they will also come to the diplomatic gallery, of course they have already arrived and kindly please welcome them in front of the Croatian Parliament. Have a nice stay. [[Applause.]] Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67576	Thank you. The next thing I'd like to warn you about is we're all witnessing an extremely ugly and difficult situation that is happening in Croatia, and it's about loans from Raiffeisen savings-credit cooperatives, or more than 20,000 people who are users of these loans. And we just don't have a model of any kind in the law to sort of stop them and not to take these people's extremely valuable properties exactly in the way we've already talked about today, that only houses on the coast are sold really into invaluable not only on the coast but, unfortunately, we're already witnessing that houses are being sold in other areas of Croatia. And we suggest that by the second reading here we put somewhere in this law that if the judge has the knowledge that the executive is instituting a criminal procedure in which a decision on the validity of an executive or credible document is to be taken on the basis of which that decision is to be taken on the basis that the enforcement procedure must be suspended until the verdict of the criminal proceedings which must be settled as a previous question. So that would be very important to us. I've just mentioned the Raiffeisen Saving Cooperative case, but there are a lot of such cases. And that way if we don't prevent such situations because it's not just cases. So we have a situation of some kind of massive event of extremely large proportions. And if we do not find a way to prevent this now while it is not yet in that full swing, we will have additional problems because the process is in progress at both the Croatian State's Attorney's Office and the Austrian State's Attorney's Office in the meantime, they will buy the physical persons of that property. If the procedure is ultimately adopted for the benefit of citizens who have been damaged, then at one point we now have the question of how those who bought this property at an extremely favourable price, and these are as debtors who went into the process lost that property and criminal criminal charges are in their favor. Then what happens is that we should take care of it. And here at the very end, so when we do, we're going to propose a case of one executive in a way, so when we have a case of one executive, we're going to give one proposal that the perpetrator can choose in procedures where there's only one executive, and at a hearing where the court has determined the value of the property to hand over that property to the owner instead of carrying out the property sale procedure through the agency. We are also witnesses that, given that all this will be sold through the agency and we are asked these amounts of values achieved now we are in a situation for real estate to be executed, and that the debtor is still in debt to that same bank. So we have to somehow give that debtor the opportunity to say here I am further that real estate I don't want, I'm giving it to the bank that put a mortgage on that property anyway. At which price the bank will sell it and what price the bank will make for that property is now its ability, but in this way we put this debtor in one to say the same position as the bank. Because if we don't, then we're still holding him in debt slavery, because the claims and loans have grown so much that these are extremely high costs that he no longer has with this single property he mortgaged can't cover. So, if our intention is to really help the citizens with these amendments to the Executive Act here are just some of the examples where I think we should consider them until the second reading, that they should be seriously considered and that changes to the second reading really justify what we are saying, that we are doing this to speed up the executive procedure, to witness that this executive procedure is now more legal, that everyone can participate in it under the same rules and that we do these changes in order to really protect more than 300 thousand Croatian citizens, and given the situation that we have, we can very quickly at least 1100 more than HZ that will get fired, etc. So these changes should be made as soon as possible and in the only direction, which is that finally citizens at least in some way are protected from their country in the same way as certain interested individuals are protected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67577	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas. Ante Kulusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67578	Mr. Vice President. My colleagues Tyrelli said that, and I absolutely agree with you, we are also discussing bankruptcy, pre-determinations and how it would be good for these ordinary citizens to be able to reprogramme something that is due in more war or as the minister says we relax them too, to at least relax them in a way like in a pre-fashion settlement that hundreds are not to say to thousands of companies relaxed the Croatian budget. It would be good to know which companies in 2010, 2011 did positive business and, behold, miracles in 2012 created so many obligations towards the state that the state must forgive them. It would be good to know and know that list. Or now Minister Doncic, as you said, will relax 1100 HZ Cargo workers and then by this Implementing Law they will sit down on everything they have so that they are left without worry. And this same minister, we all know, has changed the two administrations that brought HZ Cargo into bankruptcy, hasn't been in a great situation before, but no one is responsible for anything. Mostly, this seems to be one relaxing law where unfortunately it will relax because 1,100 new unemployed obviously are nothing compared to more than 70,000 new unemployed in these last two years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67579	Thank you, too. The answer of my colleague Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67580	Yes, what I always advocate is that we are not only looking at the problem in one segment, but if our problem is indifference then we must all be aware that this indifference applies to legal entities, but also to citizens. If we are talking about unemployment and economic downturn, then we know that this applies to the citizens as well. So, even if we are making certain rules of the game to say so and to make it easier for entrepreneurs, businessmen or legal entities, it is extremely important that we also treat those citizens who are workers in these legal entities in the same way and find some possibility for them, let's say, here are the debt reprogrammes. We have a situation to say there is a mortgage in a bank that operates in Croatia where the rest of the debt is 11,000 kuna for payment, so the bank does not want to reprogram it because it is not a problem for the bank amounting to 11,000 kuna but is a problem for 230 and a few days that the loan is not paid. So, we're talking about this reprogramme, so citizens have to be given some kind of opportunity to, with evidence that they've been hired in the meantime, whether or not we're going to give them the opportunity to go to it and call some kind of reprogramme, especially for smaller amounts. And as far as HH is concerned, it's not just about those 1,100 workers, so it's about 3,500 workers. If we multiply that by at least three family members, then here we see that we have another one in the Republic of Croatia, so to speak of a social disaster that, without any remorse, we say we're going to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67581	Thank you. Branko Vuksic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67582	Dear fellow Tirelli, you spoke of cases where various fees, additions and support were made. However, we have already asked the Minister of Justice a question and he has given us an answer, often I believe that ministers do not even see what is written in those answers, and in response, he says that FINA does not have technical recognition options. I mean, but it's your ministers cheating on you. First of all, there's a JOP, there's this unique pay pattern where the taxes are listed all of what we're giving means taxing to do that, and I'm going to give you some 10-year-old to do their program. That kid broke right into the computer and they have a program. Therefore, it is boastful. That's the haughtiness of FINA who, someone asked if you had it? We're not in the mood. And now we're going to take away from the workers what is not to be taken away. Why? Because they don't, not because they want to protect them from paying, but because they can't do their job. Because I can't bury a dead family member because you took that funeral payment. Because he doesn't recognize anything. So let's make him recognize. And what you colleagues of Tyrelli were saying about real estates worth less than at that point of credit. You know well that those who took loans in francs and now pay off a loan somewhere for 7, 8, 9 years they owe more to the bank than they owed at the beginning. I'm sure if it were good in law, we should get some damage. They will be left without an apartment, although they have paid the loan for 10 years and will be left without credit and without an apartment, etc. And there is a need to see if any other procedures can be conducted against the banks and what "FRANAK" has already begun to stop lending to Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67583	Thank you. Josip Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67584	Thank you very much. So, fellow Tyrelli, in your debate, you mentioned Raiffeisen's loan to a savings credit office. It's a problem that plagues thousands of people on the islands and the coast. I asked about it two months ago what the state, the executive authority is doing by that, he answered me they're all under investigation. We all don't know who he is. Is under investigation a bank that shouldn't have worked with citizens because it doesn't have a license. Is it under investigation that those who were connected between the users who took the loans, who may not have been allowed to take them or are under investigation are really all these people, because we know that these days everyone in the groups has been giving statements to UskoK because they are troubled by what is happening to them and they are being paid off the loan and someone has done their real estate according to their claims. What's happening to them is that maybe it's outrageous in the state, that they've given their house voluntarily on a mortgage and that the court has written a mortgage on the entire property, on the entire bank account, how is that possible? And what does the executive government do to protect them? She doesn't want to answer those people. They were forced to organize themselves into a group called "hitting" and trying to force it out on its own as it says on the cleanup of all the things that were happening. It's about tens of millions of euros that were transferred in cash across borders but nobody knew anything about it, obviously, or everyone knew everything, but they kept quiet. That's what's bothering them. And we don't know if we're going to get an answer to that question, as we don't even know the answer to this question. Do these so-called so-called. the dark energy efficiency certificates prevent the purchase of real estate through the exercise or do not prevent us. Because if something's worth something to the state, it should be worth it to the citizens. The state can't have one rule for itself and for the citizens the other.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67585	Thank you. We have an answer. My fellow Tyrells, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67586	Here's my colleague, Boric, I also asked the ministers a question about these Raiffeisen savings cooperatives and Minister Linic answered me as well as that everyone on the list was being investigated because I had one longer list of lawyers and mediators and public notebooks put inside and those who ultimately bought properties in executive procedures for ridiculous amounts. However, what concerns me personally is that the minister replied in that response that the tax administration would determine the proportion of the reported receipts of these citizens and their assets and that, if a ratio is not determined, they would account for their income tax. This means that here's the state at this point, or the Ministry of Finance, legalizes me to say a crime that is obvious because I have no other words since also the state's attorney's office is running the procedure and you yourself have said that people are increasingly and more and more filing criminal charges to the USKOK of individual applications, reports through associations and in any way that they think will help them in this, and I'm really using the opportunity to appeal once again to all those who are in the executive power, who can influence these citizens to give any answer to themselves and not to be spokesmen but to think that these more than 20,000 citizens of the Republic who are in this problem really deserve to hear from the competent institutions very briefly what they are doing, in which few stages, and which they can expect at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67587	Thank you. Drazen Pandek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67588	Thank you. Dear fellow Members, you have made a proposal in your presentation, so which, as far as I understand it, essentially refers to the court's need to keep an eye on the official duty now of the statute of limitations. I must point out that some solutions in this law as a solution to the fact that 60 days now the funds stand in the transitional account before paying the executive represent the protection of the perpetrators that his assets do not go away before he has the opportunity if I am well aware to give the objection obsolete or to file and appeal, which I do not know how carefully you consulted him with the lawyers would mean somewhat redefining the full concept of limitations. In the case of antiquity, debt continues to exist, only ceases the right of an executive or a believer to collect that debt through court. This way your proposal would mean fully redefining that concept of change in the Law on Mandatory Relations I don't think even in some of our close legal systems there is such a solution at all. It would mean killing a complete suspension of the obligation to add additional work to the courts and additional obligations of the courts to now keep an eye on the official duties of certain things that sometimes seem simple but can be quite complicated. And I'm saying that in this solution, there seems to be solutions in this law that are just about to prevent someone from taking money and spending it without the objector being able to give to which one would prevent it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67589	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67590	Yes, we have that deadline now for 60 days but I'm now asking myself a question I don't know any older person with 60 or 70 years old who lives somewhere in the village because unfortunately not everyone lives in Zagreb, not everyone lives in big cities. They don't all have big schools, they don't all have young kids who can influence, they have the Internet and they can see what's going on and then they get home to do it or they get a pension that's worth a thousand and some kuna and she doesn't get anything from that pension because HT over some public notary made her an amount that was or an invoice that was 9 or 10 years ago, without her getting anything from her address and without her having any knowledge that it was going to happen. That's what I'm thinking now, now I just think technically that this someone in 60 days will be able to react and give here, say it's not true, and it's now out of date, and how many people even know what aging is about and how old the deadline is for a certain obligation based on an account and payment. So, these are some of these situations now, unfortunately, why did I mention it? Because it's not an isolated case, because it was a mass situation, because people also paid massively to HTV accounts that were long ago in obsolescence and T-COM accounts that were out of date and I don't say through court, were public notebooks that were thus as such. To make it right because the public notary sent a note or sent a memo that I didn't receive, that's exactly what's on the trail of finding a person and delivering it, so we're sorting things out, but here's to really looking at the problem as it really is.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67591	Thank you. Stjepan Milinkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67592	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Tyrelli, I noticed your claim where you said it was a good intention to facilitate citizens in this procedure in some way, in another part I heard even one thought that families have in some way special protection. I think it's unfortunately a regrettable intention, it would have been much better if it hadn't been for that to happen, but I was glad to hear your debate when you went out with concrete thinking, with concrete suggestions. And it's exactly what you said that everyone thinks about me in the area of their interest, from an area they know a little bit better, so even you touched in your answer to fellow Pandeku what I'm thinking. I know the best problems in my environment, in the village, the problems of farmers, those who have daily problems because they come naturally to solve these problems to seek the help of local self-government units. From the top to the power failure. And what's this about? The other day, one of my farmers tells me, so you know he says, I got a 500, 600 kuna blockage, and this is where he looks at that, he says forgive him 25 million kuna. It's not fair, it's not fair. And I say of course it's not fair. And that's exactly what you told your colleague Pandek. They come very specifically about HTV, they come, they're enormously up-to-date, and if this guy doesn't even watch that TV because he can't pay for electricity, he comes to us in the municipality to help him pay for the electricity, and at the same time he sends it to him, and in some way he's pushing it in every way possible, and we're not talking about the other part that if he's in such a situation, he can't even withdraw a certain amount of funds if he's entitled to certain support and it's really not fair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67593	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67594	Well, buddy, I'm glad we agree in that part, and it's extremely important that we talk about life problems because right now, I always think we're making the laws because of the problems that citizens have and that we want to fix these laws in a way that is better for the citizens who are actually implementing them and as far as they're concerned. I just got a warning here that I mentioned over 60 years of age and over I said, I apologize to all those I may have offended, it was not my intention, so I thought I'd say the following. We have extremely, extremely rural areas where we really have people uneducated and not, now I've said 60 years and more in terms of what I mean, I've been thinking about these people who haven't seen the Internet in their lives, who don't have the laws, and they also get these performances. So we talk about them and there's a lot of them and I say once again they don't all have kids who are going to fight for some of their rights and eventually they lose and what little they get through retirement and that's what I'm warning you about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67595	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67596	Thank you. Comrade Tyrell, you were talking about this, and here's a moment ago about these errands. You were talking about the fact that citizens don't even know what finds them, only when they get a notice that there's no pension that someone's been laid down, as they say, on top of his pension. However, there are not many who use the performance and beyond the legal deadline. Each of the companies we talked about today, including Telekom, and I don't know who, has their own law firm that has authorized them to represent him, and they know exactly the outcome, so the expiry of that deadline for the execution and going either way, or, therefore, you can't avoid it at all, and when you try to talk to a law firm representing that particular company, then they won't even open the door for you. If you say what you're coming to the portophone for, like what happened to me, when you have nothing to talk to us about, you have to pay for it. Done, done. But what I particularly wanted to point out, which is this savings-credit association Raiffeisen, so-called. Raiffeisen because it's not Raiffeisen Bank. I'm surprised that after so many announcements in our media, so many earthquake stories we've heard, a little bit every seven days, I think I'm going to have this kind of report on people, and you said there were 20 grand, that there were 20 grand. I am surprised that our country, any ministry, judiciary or police do not intervene when 20 thousand Croatian citizens have concluded, so they have arranged a job in another country because this association does not have a license to work in Croatia. So they made contracts in another country. I would say almost, in my opinion, invalid but time goes by, and citizens have their own plight and fall into debt slavery.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67597	Thank you. Here's your answer, Comrade Tyrell.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67598	To make it extremely important for us to react without delay, we have witnessed how long it took us to solve the Swiss problem, and then in one minute when we rose on Friday when conditions came to an end. So, we need to learn and listen and see what's most important to react precisely in order to solve the problems as soon as possible, so that the consequences of all that is happening are not even greater and I think that this is the task of all of us together and to warn but also to act and all in order to save what is being saved yes, not that we are much wiser where we can very quickly and elegantly bring certain laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67599	Thank you. Minister Orsat Milenic called for the word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67600	Thank you very much. I thank you for the suggestions that have been made here so far, so I'm just going to take a quick look at some of them. So first and foremost the exercise is not what we all know is not a social category, it simply implements the decision of the competent body, she me sword system and she is there blind. As much as we can build on these mechanisms for the protection of the perpetrators but her task is to carry out what another body has decided. In this, too, we must be aware that every performer is a very common believer because some company that performs has its employees and if they do not charge, maybe someone will lose their job, so it is a closed circle from which we simply cannot escape and we must have that sword to ensure that the system works. But in doing so, we need to respect all the realities, the circumstances of life, and try to implement it the most appropriate way. So as far as statutes are concerned, we have to say right away we're going to consider a proposal for anyone who goes in that direction but I'm skeptical of why in order for you to determine whether or not it's out of date you have a whole series, you have to carry out the procedure. You don't know if it's broken or not, you don't see it from the account. Whether it is interrupted, it is not, whether partial payment has been made, it is not, so a whole series of studies should be conducted and I'm afraid it's not possible without the procedure, so only in the process, and that is done then on the proposal of the one who claims to have been obsolete. Not even the court, and yet we can't give one authority to a public notary that doesn't have a court, it doesn't have the authority to take care of obsolescence by official duty. So it doesn't exist, it would be contrary to that institute. As for these parts that are exempt from this, you can see that, by proposing the law, we have extended them to those grounds. If there's anything else I'd say technical options, too, because when we wrote the law, we took care of it. Absolutely suggest, we'll consider it. And what's like what you're saying transport costs or something absolutely. The delay, that is, of what you have pointed out to change with these citizens, exists even now under the existing law, so there are legal means. However, as with any case when it is shown that it is not in practice to be applied or used wrongly, then it is necessary to consider being legally precise. So we will also consider that although it exists and according to the current arrangement, there is also the institution of the cancellation of any contract there is the possibility of a delay precisely because of the absence of a basis there is also an appeal reason. So there is, but I'm saying if there's something not being implemented in practice and we see that we should then let's see how we can specify the text. In what you mentioned when the mortgage was handed over to real estate in exchange for debt, it would be contrary to the mortgage institute. The Institute of Mortgage is basically cashing in, not handing in property, that's fiduciary. If you've seen in this law we fiduciary just go in favor of debtors and these are the two elements. Of course, a citizen must then consider making a contract whether he goes to one institute or another and what is the advantage of both. So what we wanted here is two institutes, we have a fiduciary institute but now we've done it so the debtor can choose it, exactly what you're saying. But unfortunately, it's not applicable to this where the mortgage is. I agree with informing citizens, delivery to the address, you have seen that we have dealt with this in particular, it is generally in the system not only in the executive but sometimes problematic and that is what we have paid special attention to. We consider the system of reminders to be restored through pre-up accounts and we introduce very strict obligations, which must contain this executive proposal and the instructions to the citizens how and what to do. I'm going to tell you now that it can't happen at least I'm not saying, it shouldn't have happened better that way, but these are some things that we have to deal with through practice, that law can't be done without the delivery being neat. So the law here is very clear, it can't be, but I'm not saying that it didn't happen in some cases, and we have to act exactly on practice, we can't do it with a legal solution. You have some countries here's the time I've run out of, where, say, delivery in a mailbox is enough, it's not looking for a signature at all, and it's working well. It's a matter of tradition and our acceptance of court letters, response, download at the post office, etc. Here's a thank you very much, and we'll consider what's proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67601	Thank you. Branko Vuksic replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67602	Dear Minister, I was doing something upstairs in the room, I came, I ran to one of your sentences that encouraged me to a replica, and that's the tip is blind. That was your first sentence. There's only weak-sighted power. It's the same as when they say the computer program is bad. Well, it's not bad, it's bad people who worked with that computer. There's one country, I think she's done it so far, it's Spain. Why don't Croatia stick to that step and simply until the crisis is over, ban the conduct of those people's apartments that are the only roof over their heads. Which is why everything that's in the neoliberal world is the worst you've ever accepted, and you don't see well. Why should the family, because it is in debt, because the loan has been raised and the family has robbed the banks, driven out of the apartment, unless there are 2-3 apartments, but we know that it is not, that the most common cases are that those who have one apartment have to leave the apartment, why can't the Croatian state protect them, at least for a while. At least in times of crisis, not just six months. Six months is what you've known to me, I haven't talked about it at first, it looks a little bit like a laugh, here's the six months we give you, so live for six months, still pay rent, until the crisis is over. I can't wait for a court hearing about the Franak case, so let's see, and I think it'd be good if the state got involved.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67603	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67604	Thank you very much. So what I'm talking about is that, therefore, the executive law, not in those countries that you mention, Spain, Italy, also has one model, does not solve these issues. This is solved by other regulations that are not here because this executive law, let's not forget, it deals with other forms of enforcement, it's not always payment, it's simple implementation, the way one decision will be implemented. Which can exist reasons in society that there's something going on that doesn't work or to put a moratorium on, it really shouldn't be an object here because then we go in, we mix two procedures. That's what I meant when I said she was blind, and otherwise in these countries you're talking about, we've looked into these experiences in general. Let's say Italy is only for tax obligations, Spain is so restrictive that, let's say, if you receive unemployment benefits you can't qualify for moratorium etc. So that's even when it's being introduced I think it's our institute, and about six months we can talk about, whether it's supposed to be a year, that's also a thing, so we have a public debate and that's why the first reading is that we can talk about it, but that's one balance... it comes after the whole process has already been carried out. And one more thing, the Law on personal bankruptcy, or the bankruptcy of consumers, he's in the making, he's going to go and he's going to go parallel, I'm not going to say parallel but very soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67605	Nancy Tyrelli, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67606	Here's the minister I agree with you when you say that the execution is not a social category. Of course, she is a tool. Secondly, as far as this Executive Act is concerned, and what Spain has, we're more elastic than exactly what you said. But here I would really suggest that we put at least a year in these six months because six months really in these tragedies and in these situations is nothing, and I think that really no one takes credit with the intention of not returning it and that no one takes credit from the citizens with the intention of taking it without doing its obligations but that there are very fat reasons. As for these kinds of fees that were added, we added a fee for official travel and a gift for children. The fee for the official trip is usually paid at the cashier's checkout when it is already going on the official trip, so in most cases it is not on the pay list, and unfortunately, gifts for children are still, not even more, given in bonuses that we then buy in certain shopping centres and are not done again. So those material, truly material costs that I agree that the real estate is extremely difficult, but I also argue that a large number of citizens are burdened with these very minor tasks, with monetary charges, and that these fees of field work where they really have to spend something to be on the ground and those fees where they have to pay their way to work and come home from work is an extremely large item and that it would be important to track down exactly what we said, talk to the Ministry of Finance, a solution exists, we recognize the fee based on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67607	Thank you. Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67608	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I noticed that, too, Mr. Secretary, who led fellow Tyrelli to where you said the execution wasn't a social category. Good if it isn't, but it can cause inconceivable social consequences for those 300,000, of course, for those families. And I agree with you where you said all the circumstances should be considered, and that's why I want to list here the circumstances that I know well. I know that rural area, I know our villages that have, all the honor these modern technologies, the Internet, social networks and everything, but it's really not like that. And the other thing, FINA is 40 km away from some villages, I'm just telling you an example of 40 out there, 40 back, 80 kuna map in one direction, a map in the other direction, and not to talk about that grant excerpt of my peasant over there from Djurjevaca Podravina, which must be 50 km from Mr. Minister going back and forth for that grant excerpt. And then you say there's the post office, the post office. In my county, seven post offices were abolished with further tendency to abolish other post offices. So not everyone is in the same legal position, and indeed also in social circumstances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67609	Thank you, too. Ivan Drmic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67610	Your Honor, I'd like to say a few words about the performances but in the accounts. Tell me if it's normal for you, I personally had such an example, so I know from my hand, that it's done in accounts without the man who's done getting the notice, to find out when they come to the gas station to pour fuel, so when they tell him the card's blocked. And then tomorrow, or if he's lucky, he has to go to FINA and ask who blocked him. Is the problem to install into the law that a few days ago a bank or a legal person or a natural person who performs the task of sending to a man who is carrying out the notice that he can prepare for it and not that it happens to lead to an unfortunate situation that his account is blocked and that he performs some kind of action and simply is not able to pay it. It's a lot in the country, I'm a lot of people who have been through this much, and I note that I was once on occasion because I was a loan judge to find myself in such an unfortunate situation. I don't think you should let that happen, that you just have to stand in the protection of those people who already have enough problems in themselves because they've found themselves in an awkward situation to help at least avoid one of these, these unpleasant situations that these unfortunate people across the country are exposed to every day.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67611	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67612	Thank you very much. Yeah, that's the problem, here's the problem, and we've talked a lot about him. So, first of all, the performance that would have been carried out, so billing without the perpetrator even knowing about it was illegal. So she can't become a powerful solution without proper delivery. So it's, in itself, illegal. Secondly, we have established the obligation, the notification of which you speak, so you, or not you, who is in that situation, will be informed. And also the account by which it is executed, so when we talk about a credible correction, it must contain a warning that it follows the order. So there are a whole series of mechanisms to which, which are now embedded in this proposal that the citizen simply knows what is going on. So there's a warning on the account, so it's going to follow the dot, so when the execution is done, it can't be done, it can't be done without delivery, so someone had to... Hold on, I'm talking about how legal it is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not to argue that in some small number of cases, as always, there may be some violation of the law but then it's a matter of practice to sanction itself specifically, we can't resolve it by law. And there is the duty of the FINA or the bank to inform you that it will be carried out at that time. So that's what we built in. What's our problem is that this doesn't go to anyone in particular. We normally have to, what I started saying earlier, raise a culture of communication and simply when we get some notice is raised, when we get a written takeover, etc., because it's the only way to find out what's happening to us and whether we have any rights being violated or not. But it's something we just have to start doing over time. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67613	Thank you, too. On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67614	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with an associate, colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we discussed with a break or after a break about the position and position of 3.5 thousand HZ CARGO employees. I expect that, following this legislative proposal, they will go out to the streets with flags Croatian and wave because here they are welcomed, according to the minister, by a better position as debtor, or performer, than they have ever been. In this euphoria, therefore, because there will be no, 3.5 thousand people without pay and with the employees of Gredelj, Glass in Kaštela, Immunological Institute, RIZ and not to add any further, therefore a critical mass of those who will fall out of apathy, debt slavery in the euphoria of the new Executive Act will facilitate their position, under quotes, of course. It is still very current and the franc and consequences resulting from the operations of banks and in relation to loans in francs. Although Ljudevit Posavski Frank has solved thousands and more years ago, but we don't have Ljudevit Posavsky today, so Frank and our citizens have brought us into debt slavery. The statistics were also discussed here by fellow Boric and counterpart Kajin, and they said that in the past year more blocked citizens and their accounts were over 54 thousand. In announcements for this year and the prime minister and all other finance ministers said this year would be even more difficult, as announced by the budget rebalancing itself has just been passed, the ink has not yet dried in the 2014 budget. And what do you expect? The new 54 or more thousands of citizens who will be blocked by accounts and so far, 300 thousand potential perpetrators, or debtors, have been blocked in total, above all, by our banks. It's about farmers and ruined agriculture that we don't talk. What's the point of all this? Well the goal is all of this and the goal is to look and politics because I don't see countermeasures, I don't see any measures that would prevent it from actually bringing all Croatian citizens individually and individually as well as all of Croatia into debt slavery and into the hands of foreign banks, corporations etc. And it's done neatly and nicely. We can bring these little rags of law that will make it a little bit easier here for six months. So do you know how much trouble it is living in a house that you know will belong to someone else in six months and you have, emotionally tied to your house, to your tiles, to your shower, to your kitchen you bought. He'd rather burn than turn it over to another man. And you know six months from now, it's gonna be sold to someone else for some money. We're talking about 4/5, then 3/5 values of that house. The executive business developed, an executive mafia developed in this country, which through the way is being implemented rich on one side is a small number, and on the other side of the Croatian citizens is being introduced into debt slavery, homeless people and everything else. That's what we need to talk about today. Well, we can say this law is great, good, it's giving us a little bit of a break here for our executives, debtors, etc. But the point is the whole other thing and the whole other side. The aim is to make agricultural facilities and agricultural areas belong to someone else. We said for seven years there was a ban on selling agricultural areas when we join the EU. But the banks are registered here as well and their nuts are somewhere else. They come into possession of the land, therefore by a detour to the possession of a valuable Slavonic land, and in favour of the destruction of villages and peasants. Citizens who have their jobs with that unfortunate S.H.I.E.L.D. savings-credit association, so-called Raiffeisen, though it's supposed to have nothing to do with Raiffeisen Bank. There is or there is no I want the Minister of Justice and the Police to determine as soon as possible, to see which gang and bagra were tasked by 20,000 Croatian citizens. Clearly, they, too, have a part of the blame for unwarranted entry into such monetary arrangements. We have not only Spain and Italy as said by the minister in terms of a measure to protect the perpetrators. The measures towards banks are much better for neighbouring Prime Minister Orban, who has taken a slightly different view of the banks, so they've come to a bit of a standoff today. They announced they would leave Hungary but did not leave, because they still have scratches to say, they still have profits, they still have profits in the Republic of Hungary. We're at our place at peace. There is no Lyudevite Posavsky to calm the francs and to make them say I will not run them out of Croatia. But neither does this government, negotiates with the banks and the Frank Association, so the banks can go with as little damage as possible. And to throw the crumbs at those savings that are, not savings, but those who used credits in francs. And that's why there's a new lawsuit going on and let the French Association go, the Swiss franc this time. So here we're talking about two categories, as the minister said, that we're going to have, like those credit users, two options: one mortgage, another fiduciary. I'm not a bank expert. Maybe my colleague Kresho Bubalo knows better. He's a master of economics, but so am I, a doctor. So look who is taking all the credits and how they can do it, so know what is offered to them and how they are offered. What's a mortgage and what's fiduciary? What are the differences and what are the similarities? Hardly. When you try to intervene at a law firm representing some of our companies and state and HEP and Croatian Waters or city firms, then you can't even get a lawyer who wrote a warrant to perform. Because he says we have nothing to talk to you about. Well, a man would sort of settle, reprogram it, so maybe try to pay off the wars I don't know 18000 kuna. No, he has nothing to talk to you about, and he's allowed by every law, and we can say the executive and the final. 300,000 Croatian citizens are in a blockade and owes 224 billion kuna. At the same time, we made pre-price settlements, and by grandma and uncles we forgive the government's debts to some companies, and some we don't. It depends on how they are set up and how they are, to say what their structure or political orientation is. And we know that, it happens every day regardless of the level of debt to the state, so then 62100 legal entities are due, here it is reduced from 30 and, almost 40 billion kuna to 33 billion kuna, so that's why we're reducing liquidity as well. It says here will be passed and the Law on personal bankruptcy. Well, maybe we should adopt it before this, because even if there's nothing else very, very fast to say urgently, so that even citizens have similar rights as they have legal persons. Right to the so-called. a pre-demand settlement or some provision under that pre-demand, Pre-demand settlement Act. About the fact that 5,000 real estates went up last year, let me put it this way. But look or if we had statistics, the register how they like to say what the prices of these properties are, and if we had at least some statements and thoughts of their owners about the prices of these properties, then we would see drastic differences. So are the lawyers' houses, but also the banks, or those who go to work on the other side of the counter-executor, that's what it looks like. Well, they're not meant to achieve any great price. Make sure he's still in charge of the interest, only this is for the chief. And we introduced the fiscal register last year and look, they said that both law offices and houses would be under the fiscal register. And how much has the income from the fiscal registers of law firms been increased? Do we know? How much has the income from the fiscal registers of those called the sister-in-law in the markets been increased? Over 20%, the caterer 25%, and the lawyer? Have you read the information or heard the information? 8%. And then there's the greasy geese of the neck. And then the lawyer's office offer to lower the tariff a little bit in the executive proceedings. Oh, no, please! It really looks ironic, totally ironic. They're going to lower the tariff a little bit and there's only one procedure at work. And then we speed it up, says the procedure of the execution. Is this speeding up the process on the hands of the performers or those of others who are going to be charged, therefore, by the believers? Maybe it's about having a believer come into property as quickly as possible if we're speeding up the process. Let's think about it that way, let's watch it that way. We're going to introduce a new role in the FINA, the FINA, and we're going to give a new role, a new task, and for years from that SDK, so through ZAP, we're going to have FINA as a legal follow-up, or we're kind of ruining and reducing the role of this particular element of social accounting and social bookkeeping, starting with that former state of unhappiness, so here we are today when we have after ZAP and now because they almost have nothing to do, there's no COP they say, so there's no need for doctors to keep us busy with the doctors. But now we're not going to talk about doctors and their strike, a legitimate, justifiable strike. So now we're going to give the FINAs the opportunity to estimate the real estate that goes into effect. Clearly, they will have to engage, hardly to engage without the involvement of construction experts. He says he'll be able to sell it through an e-competition, right? So how many people in Croatia do I have to say broadband Internet or Internet that can monitor the FINA competitions? And it can also be done in the office itself, the FINA, to say the sale of the property of the creditors, or debtors. Comotiveness, I'd say the interest rate of creditors who have been selling real estate so far because of the settlement of religious debts is terrifying in so far-favourable cases. Personally, and if I could buy the property of some debtor or believer, I wouldn't want it because all this executive law and all the procedures around it were actually done on the torture of the people, on the torture or torture of whatever you want, because it's responsible for part, for good, and this country for poverty and getting into debt slavery of the citizens of the Republic. I see that Mr. Maric writes something, and I think he will give me a replica and tell me where the debt slavery of the Croatian people comes from. Which is someone's goal. That's how it works out. And then here's what we're doing is we're passing a law like this to bind both the believer or the bank through the FINA to achieve the highest cost of the completed property to reduce the misery and the torment of the perpetrators.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67615	Thanks, buddy. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67616	Is it gone?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67617	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67618	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67619	There's going to be a replica. Stjepan Milinkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67620	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Grubisic, I'm glad you brought up agriculture and farmers so that I'm not the only one in this High House who keeps making fun of me many times, but I think we should be proud of our farmers and not make fun of ourselves. And you were talking about destroyed agriculture. Unfortunately, all the indicators speak in that sense, now that I'm not repeating it, I've been talking since the fall in production of this, the milk, the meat and everything else. But the other thing I've really noticed and you've been talking about is the measures that would help in that recovery, and now I'm asking the president of our committee who was with these Turkish colleagues who were visiting us today, how, how do they think, how do they give farming measures, of course, and let's say it's healthy agriculture? Because it says every investment and fostering agriculture returns multiple, returns in a way that people live in these areas, that production is larger, etc. And with us, measures are offered, after all that's happened. For example, here's what's going to lead to an example right now, they say we're going to give 40 thousand heifers now and then to solve the problem in the dairy. It's like they can suddenly solve the problem of milk shortages now. Well, it can't, it's a cycle that needs, that lasts and works. And the other thing, it's going to have to be in somebody's debt again, and it's going to be a loan, and it's going to come back in a year, two in the same trouble, and it's already in big trouble. The second thing is to mention the great possibility of EU funds. And we see for ourselves that the programme was only yesterday, the day before yesterday applied to the European Commission. By the time it's activated, there'll be November and December. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67621	Thank you very much. Col. Milinković, the subject is Executive Law and you have two minutes to replicate on the subject of agriculture. We have an answer, colleague Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67622	Now if I answer, I'll be out of the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67623	You've abused the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67624	My colleague Milinković, I was an observer of the Croatian Parliament in the European Parliament and milkers came to Brussels from all over Europe on two occasions to the demonstrations before themselves, it is not forbidden to get there before, there are no fences, there is nothing like us here in St. Mark, right? So the police are very discreet about these demonstrations where they spilled two tanks, so 68 thousand milk clearly into a nylon not to be exactly on the road etc. and sprayed milk on the whole of the European Parliament without pardon. Therefore, traffic jams, inability to transport all over Brussels, etc. Here we have our people with a pigeon heart and a silence after the production of milk in Croatia. Now I'm going to say it's related to the dairy producers. So it's not meaninglessly reduced by these two years of government of the Kukuriku coalition by 30% from 700 million liters to less than 500 million liters in these two years. These are the successes of this coalition, and our milkmen who made milk go into that bankruptcy or to the opportune for their stables, their tractors, etc. And they're on the verge of real estate, aren't they? And now all of a sudden I see and I'm on TV importing heifers, I mean amazing, terrible, contradictory moves that really don't lead to anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67625	Goran Maric replica please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67626	Thank you very much. You told your colleague Grubisic that this government said this year would be even worse. I don't think you're right. The government announced as soon as it came to power that every year it would be better and better. And this one's gonna be worse than the last one, and the last one was from the last one. So they've made everything worse since they came to power. Nothing almost represents home or family or children or parents or Croatia anymore. More room in the mouth takes the word of the region than Croatia. And of course we're entering the debt slavery process just because of that kind of policy. To worsen the situation, the executions show only a list, these are all the tasks I got from the RS defenders. In one way, I would dare to say that they were offered non-transparent loans without the auspices of the Croatian National Bank, where they now became the owners of their properties, who offered them these loans as intermediaries, through the Austrian banks of the province. They've been filed against criminal charges by the state and the attorney's office. There are lawsuits and executions are carried out. This is not to be carried out. She'd have to stop while there's criminal charges, while there's grounds for a crime and while there's lawsuits. It will be invaluable when everyone in Croatia loses their most faithful home. The invaluable damage will be and at the same time these debtors on these loans are not properly driven out of their homes and through a pre-determination settlement are granted to the biggest in Croatia, beaten and cherished by the debtors. Your debtors decide everything and everything. Debtants decide on the fate of a believer, which is unacceptable because we are in a situation like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67627	Thank you. Replicate response, Comrade Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67628	Thank you very much. My colleague Marić, why I said that this year will be harder economic than the past, so all the indicators that you as an economist know very well and the very words of Minister Mrsic when they asked him when the number of unemployed will reach 400 thousand said somewhere in February 2014 and hit it. Here we will see in three days, or by the end of February there will be exactly 400, but without a cramp on the face, so nicely put. Instead of saying we will try everything to stop the increase in the number of unemployed and as for the destruction of Croatia, so I said yesterday in a debate that this government will abolish hydrants because it starts with the letter h, that's what it's about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67629	Ante Sanader replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67630	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear colleague Grubisic, I absolutely support you in this performance and the desire to protect Croatian peasants and preserve as you have said our Slavonian countries, but here is how important it is in this Law on Oversight to discuss and strive to make it as good as possible. We have another example where both cities and municipalities are in the problems of the executive and neither guilty nor debtor. Namely, what's this about? On the Adriatic, we have a dozen cities and municipalities that are now on top, why? Because at some point in time, in some past state, former cities or municipalities were buying, taking people's land, and at prices you know what they were and then some tourist company built a hotel and the state sold these hotels, our state or government sold hotels. They haven't paid any compensation to anyone, and now these former owners are taking down tens of hundreds of millions of kunas to the municipalities and cities of today, and they've blocked cities and municipalities and in a situation where they can't function anymore. I wanted to say how important the situation is with the performance, how important it is to carry out or declare the moratorium at a time when the crisis is like this, or to find ways to help, both the peasants, the workers, the unemployed but also the cities and municipalities simply bring cities and municipalities to a standstill today and that they cannot perform their basic function.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67631	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67632	This is why you can see it in Dalmatia first of all, our southern Croatia I would say, the mayors suddenly appeared as mushrooms after the rain with excellent programs and savings. But if people were forced to do it, Omis, Metkovic, and yet, I don't know, I watched those people and their TV statements. However, I must tell you that the situation with cities and the districts of Slavonia was also very awkward and there are cases where, for example, there are cases. Požega-Slavon County was in such a material situation that the cemetery in Požega came into question. The execution of the cemetery, the cemetery as one facility for the performance, and even in the Municipality of Velika the same case took place in Požega-Slavon County where it was almost completed exactly the real estate it was, and in terms of the cemetery in that municipality.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67633	Thank you. Marijan Škurić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67634	Vice President, dear colleague. First of all, we in the Parliament, and all citizens, and especially us MPs, must see that every law when we bring it into debate that it must be based first and foremost on that we all have equal rights, first and foremost on the basis of the law, before the Constitution, before the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, before EU regulations, etc. Once again and truly we must fight that all must have a guaranteed equal position in the process. You, when you set out in your presentation and you really spoke emotionally about the problems of one debtor when someone bad comes to him, takes his house, you say even the tiles he's emotionally bound and yes, we can really stand up for it when on the one hand we have a debtor-religious relationship, if the debtor on the one hand is a poor peasant, on the one hand an unemployed person, a defender, and on the other hand, when they have a believer, who has a wicked corporation, when it's a bank or lawyers or some big rich guy. But what if when a foreign believer is your neighbor, your friend who loaned the same money to someone and doesn't want to pay them back and, of course, through an executive procedure wants that damage to be compensated. We certainly have this great responsibility that we must keep in mind, that the debtor-religious relationship is at the level of a truly equal position, both one and the other. That's our job. Emotions are really one and it's hard, but please, here's what we're taking care of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67635	Thank you. Answer, colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67636	... A colleague from the HNS, right? [[The speaker is not enabled.]] I would ask you what size the font is, so the letters are written contracts between the bank and the debtors? And why were they written in six? I know they were written in six. Either T-Mobile or some other telecommunications houses with those that negotiate packages with those houses. Six. Well, I can't read those contracts with the binoculars you get except your name and last name is in big letters, fourteen, right, and this other six. So that's one half con. I'm not saying it's a scam, some things write, but half a scam. I suppose you won't say that the loans in the francs are also in an even position for these debtors and creditors. And in court, a first-degree procedure, clearly identified irregularities. Don't argue like this when we all know what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67637	Tomislav Jagar, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67638	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Grubisic, and here the minister said when he explained it, and we heard from several speakers according to the present way of auctioning it is certain that they became a narrow number of people who could abuse the procedure themselves in such a way that they came very cheaply to the real estate. According to information I have, even one union leader is involved in such matters. Of course, it's all by law, whether it's moral, that's another question. I present the replica in the context of the mention of the e-indicatorship you are here, the e-indication, the electronic auction you have already mentioned with suspicion or the question of whether there are sufficient number of Internet users in Croatia for such auctions to be held? There are 2.5 million Internet users in Croatia, 62% of households in the Republic of Croatia are connected to the network. So some rightly call us a digital nation. In the city of Zagreb, the percentage is also higher, 75%. Even facebook has 1.6 million members from Croatia. So, according to these data, it's certainly better that more people approach the auction, let's say theoretically that 2.5 million people can access more auctions than a narrow circle of people than a few, of all of them. In that sense, I think this legislative proposal should be welcomed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67639	Thank you. Answer, colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67640	Comrade Sagar, do you think that e-dairy guarantees e-respect? Or do you think that you are a supporter of the old Croatian-Bosnian saying "a pair that the burgion won't spin". I'd say, I'm personally thinking about this other guy because we're such a society and in such a situation that, despite the e-treasures, there's certainly gonna be irregularities and holes in which they're gonna be able to use them, and already there's a layer of such real estate resellers. That's what I was talking about, remember, I said there was a caste, a gang, a mob that runs rich on the way. And they will still be rich after this law is passed by your majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67641	Thank you. And Drazen Djurovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67642	Thank you. Well, I don't know if you and your colleague share the impression that actually the amendments to this Implementing Law show and in some way the political decision that there is no strength and will really structurally try to help Croatian citizens who are burdened with the problem of performance, but that simply with some small cosmetic measures, there are minimal changes in some modality in this process and that it actually ends there. So we actually have a political decision in front of us not to make a more serious step in protecting Croatian citizens from a number of tasks. For example, the amendments to the Consumer Credit Act that you also cited where actually several changes were made, from the intensity shown by the applicant to facilitate the payment of credit to Croatian citizens, that part of the burden should be transferred to high bank profits in the end we ended up practically on cosmetics, which in only a small part made it easier for residents of residential loans in Swiss francs to pay off these loans. And what you mentioned about FINA is also a fantastic idea of a country where it slowly pushes through FINA, into which space it pushes. So he pulls her out of everything that was profitable. Today, most of the profitable activities that FINA once did today are seen in the press kiosks. So it's amazing that the press kiosks today have 50 activities of which once had quite a number of FINA, today FINA pulls out and that profitable part of the performance if we're going to end up being transferred to someone else, and the FINAs remain suffering, losses, one hard job that wasn't at all the primary activity of FINA.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67643	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67644	Your replica started with a verb, if you share my opinion. So I share your opinion entirely. Namely, I would say these rags that our government is trying to do a little bit and the ministries are covering our citizens' eyes, so by making it easier for the debtors or the perpetrators, they've been going back a long time. And when the Croatian people were dissatisfied with the Croatian-Hungarian settlement, then a river cloth came along and when we were dissatisfied when we achieved a positive result in the case of the Franak Association again, so Linić's intervention where instead of paying the banks 750 million kuna, this debt to the Swiss francs fell to 250, so three times the effect of the association's lawsuit was reduced, so it goes further to a further lawsuit. And as for paying in kiosks and in Konzum at the cash register as far as I know. I was very surprised when she said I had to go pay, electricity, water, and I don't know what. So where are you going? Well, I'm going to go to Konzum. What? Where? Well, I was surprised, too, but here's the most expensive thing in FINA. But why is it the most expensive? So people go to Tisak and Konzum and pay there.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67645	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the SDSS club Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67646	Fellow Members and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Justice. I'm going to try to explain in this debate today the position of our club on amendments and additions to the executive law that I consider to be one of the very important laws, sometimes we even said it was an organic law when we were studying it. I, as a citizen, would in any case sign all of the things that you colleagues have brought out in this debate today, all these difficulties, troubles. People, the common man he's dealing with when he gets into a situation to go to a bakery or go to a grocery store and he's surprised when he can't pay because his card's blocked and he didn't know it. It's a big problem, it's a big pain I've attended such an agony. However, as a legalist as a lawyer, I must say that society-organised society must fully protect and treat the interests of both creditors and debtors. And that's what the legal theory itself says in the end. And I fully understand people from the ministry who are trying to create a more efficient system with these amendments and additions to these proposals, create a more efficient legal instrument that will strike some balance between the basic function that the system is functioning because the judiciary cannot function unless it has its finality, and that is the effective execution of what the judicial authorities decide. And of course, on the other hand, to preserve the dignity and minimum dignity of debtors without any abuse of that instrumentation called the Executive Law. It used to be a very different situation, sometimes negligent was the reason why people were hit by some coercion. Today, it has unfortunately become a way of life, and it is something that we must conclude because today people in loans are enormously over-indebted because we also have a mass of parafiscal burdens that occur every little bit and that are still quite enough and a good and attractive space for the soul to block salaries, pensions of ordinary citizens etc., etc. And it's for some not-so-great sums. I also think that it is not good if the negative connotations in the debate are going exclusively towards the applicant because in this case, when we talk about the arrangement of this instrumentation, which is called the Executive Law, cannot be held accountable for the overall consequences of today's situation in society. They are trying to arrange what can be arranged because the fact is that today we need to facilitate the process of ending somewhere around 100,000 executions, according to the Ministry of Justice at the courts is somewhere around 99 thousand executive cases, while the Croatian Public Executive Association claims there are even around 127 thousand. So it's one big job that needs to be done in a fair, fair and human way as much as it can be done today. This is the first reading. And I will be in the interest of quality if we can help some thinking to make another reading, the text in the second reading is as high as possible, and I will refer to three groups of questions that we think determine the very character of the Executive Law. These are primarily expenses. Here we were saying that the costs of the executive procedure and mostly those small, small claims are a very interesting thing to analyze. There was a reference to HT's fee. I've had the opportunity to see the executive proposal for unpaid three HT fees of some 400 kuna and then see the cost specification. Therefore, for the request of the HT of 400 kuna, you have the cost of the composition of the proposal 250 kuna, VAT country 60, the acquisition of an executive clause of 250 kuna, the VAT country 62 kuna, the composition of the proposals for the implementation of the further participants of the rule 125 kuna, the VAT country 32 kuna and the public note fee of 60 kuna, VAT 15 kuna, the power of 30 kuna, VAT country 7, the cost of delivery of 30 kuna, VAT 7, total to be charged to 400 kuna for some three unpaid wars of HT, 931 kuna should be paid. That's it. That is, the common man’s torture and such examples could likely be found even more. Therefore, associations of public perpetrators who are represented in this whole thing warn that the cost of public-booking will increase according to this new legal solution. The legal costs will also be increased, meaning the proposal for a performance, delivery of the decision on the performance, the FINA, the indication of the solution and everything else will be charged according to this legal model. We now have a provision on a legal tariff which was valid until the end of 2012 and which envisioned a one-time payment for the debt procedure. Under the new rules of this executive law action carried out after the public notary has completed its conduct on the executive file will be additionally charged, additionally charged to the debtor. So, who in all this gets? In this whole thing they get public notebooks, they get law offices and eventually through regular VAT they get and the state and they lose these petty little users who are either reckless or with no money they didn't pay such things as parking lots, like... , such as HT service etc., which are not existential things. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because a small man never owes so much to the state, he tries to be up-to-date because he respects the state but these petty bills that come in every day give them a problem. And when that goes under then this way of executive procedure as it has been, then we have the state of dissatisfaction that we have right now. The next item is article 33, which discusses how the real estate will be arranged. Certainly the most attractive thing and the most painful thing, a lot of what has been said in any case is well said and in good faith. It is said here that instead of executive debt, instead of real estate, the apartment will be able to be seized by a car, vessels, machines and other valuable items provided that they are worth the amount of the debt indicated in the performance of the operation. This new amendment also provides for a model for the executioner if there is no other property to claim the right to residence after the property is sold eventually. It's a really good idea to help these people anyway. Essentially, has this social goal been achieved, this human goal that the promoter of these changes had. This should be well analyzed because the question remains whether the delay of these raids will take place within 6 months, the debtors will be dealt with essentially or will the problem remain? We think that this problem remains, and it will even increase. For the cost of renting and directing will not be his sole expense. In fact, the debt is not due, so the bank will take a third of its income for life because it has committed itself to the bank, when the cost of the rent is summed up, a third of the income that the bank takes eventually turns out to be the same as the loan war. In other words, the bank will also take away their property, i.e. the apartment, and take away the money they need to pay back. At the beginning of the 1st to 11th month last year, 308 families from house and apartment were deposed. These are, of course, data collected by the Ministry of Justice and that's official data. So that's one bigger, more serious, social problem than the one we're talking about here right now when we analyze the law on executive procedure. We don't have to have illusions, and even in Europe, it's not a better condition. A great Germany has similar problems. Its citizens say, the data that some 70% of citizens are tenants unlike our situation where it's reversed, 70% of our people are almost the owner of some real estate. So, in Germany, too, there's a common thing, so it's said that in one Berlin, there's 23 raids a day. It is also said that certain countries like Spain and Italy have other solutions. Of course, serious countries approach this problem very seriously and try to find some alternative to such life situations. For two years, the Spanish have banned performances and actions for those who cannot pay, service loans and have mortgage loans. In Italy, the state gave up fees, forced tax payments in favour of those below, owed below 120,000 euros. It's probably a way of giving some breath or stimulant, a break for citizens to dispel from tax obligations so that maybe they can channel some of their resources into production or something like that. Even the debtors were given the opportunity in Italy to settle their debts over the next 10 years, and only then were they followed by the execution or dissuasion from these houses. So there are models to talk about here. Whether they are equally acceptable and applicable to us and Italy is a matter of debate, but definitely for these social situations that are now current with us and in Europe, that some new models should be sought. The third thing that's new is some kind of electronic real estate sale. A lot has been said here. The fact is that FINA as a central organization that has enough of its jobs we now give it and that it works more, i.e. it deals with the assessment of the property that is in operation. The question is whether these people are additionally teamed up to do it, the question is whether they can do it, whether there are enough of them, and the question is what we want to achieve. I totally agree with my colleague that we need to see which direction FINA is going, what's the goal. Professionals, experts, or builders were usually involved in real estate assessment. I don't see how one clerk in the FINA economic profession could assess the relevant value, the key thing, and that's the initial price or the value of the property being taken away from man, that's life property, and with that thing should be very careful. Also, electronic sales will be a very good stock exchange, if not even the most attractive real estate stock market at the moment that the whole of Europe will be able to intervene with its capital. So it's going to be some kind of virtual sale of these properties. People won't have to participate directly in the bidding, they won't have to have that feeling that they're taking something, some kind of life property. So this emotional element will now be excluded here because very few people in that old model had in some way the will to buy a house that was completed by someone. It's how other people's torments have been bought very rarely in these areas. In this way it will be done much more elegantly, so someone from another country will be able to buy through this way of selling, e-saleing the house that is located on the finish line. Of course, the system will be more efficient but there remains a question of some relationship with all this. I must also say here that the profession also points to Article 279, warns of Article 279 of the current one which allows both executives and lawyers to choose their executives to conduct their executive procedures. It is the same situation where one party in the dispute would choose a judge to judge in the dispute. One question is therefore asked, if it continues to exist the solution in Article 279, whether this creates the basis for the interesting work of the participants in a particular executive process and the matter needs to be further analyzed in any case. And lastly, I don't know if I correctly understood article 55 which says that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce is running an eyewitness of movables sold in the executive procedure. I don't see or want to get an interpretation, which is why the Croatian Chamber of Commerce is running an eyewitness of movables and taking part in the process of implementation. If I'm not mistaken, I think we've opened the issue of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, whether it's mandatory, whether it's optional membership. Therefore, if we come into a situation to say tomorrow that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce is a voluntary membership we do not see, then we can do a serious job like this. In any case, we are on the verge of supporting the ministry in this first reading in the making of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67647	Thank you. We have a replica. Drazen Pandek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67648	Thank you. Dear fellow, you are in your presentation when you were reading such taxing that the cost of the exercise reminded me of a rather important problem that occurs in the implementation of the exercise, which is the collection of a clause of power. Namely, this acquisition of the power clause is often charged by lawyers regardless of whether or not they actually perform the service. That's what I'm sure of. Public notes that such an act, which is essentially inadmissible, is allowed. So if you get a solution about... or a warning, i.e. So the solution to the task in which you see that you are in debt and you pay that debt to the decision on the matter, and they charge you in that amount and that clause of power that they do not provide, and if you do not ask for that amount of money later, you will be left without it. Such practice is inadmissible to me and I think that both the ministry and other bodies should take certain steps that such practice, both lawyers and public notebooks, should no longer occur.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67649	Thank you. Answer, colleague Horvath.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67650	Thank you. My colleague, you've actually contributed to me, so you've explained an even more detailed collection anomaly, coercive collection of exaggeration amounts, because this is a truly unsuspecting amount of 400 kuna, and it's being charged to 6 operations that someone collects plus for every VAT operation taken by the state. I just wanted to say that these things have to be set up differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67651	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67652	Well, colleague, from your argument that on the one hand... I think you've guessed the point of how the executions should be effective because the creditors are still unfortunately the last hole in the play. But on the other hand, keeping an eye on the perpetrators themselves who have often fallen into such a situation not by their own fault. For this reason, it is precisely one balance and sensitivity especially to the performance that always makes reading sensitive regardless of why the perpetrators are truly guilty of coming into that position or not especially when the execution is carried out over real estate. That is why it seems to me that you have particularly drawn attention to the fact that until the second reading, the Proposer is really considering a change. It is not changed now, but it should seriously consider amending Article 279, which many warn us to see, to remove such a struggle and doubt any kind of corruption or guessing as to who implements the exercise. That really became a problem. At first glance, it does not seem, but what is really a problem, and this should certainly be covered by the second reading. Therefore, the idea that this kind of opposition is creating needs to be done by itself in order to remove and doubt such a advantage, and let alone what is already happening on the ground in practice need to be covered and removed by changes and given the opinion of the public in particular to the professional public.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67653	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67654	Yes, I agree with you completely, and I think this new form of electronic sales will probably eliminate these doubts that you've been talking about inside the profession furniture in certain public notebooks of these disputes. Therefore, electronic sales should be made not to say perfection, but to an appropriate level of efficiency and then it will greatly remove these doubts that you were talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67655	Thank you. Branko Vuksic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67656	Dear fellow Horvat, you spoke of the costs of the procedure, the executive procedure. You said that out of 400 kuna, that debt grew to 931 kuna. I know another case. You were lucky with the lawyer's office. The lawyer's office in Istria, TV subscription around 500 kuna, has grown above 1500 kuna. It's grown three times. And then what, phone calls, and you can guess who's on the payroll, so you can cut that down and it came to about 1,000 kuna. So they're worth 500 kuna doing it for. What's the problem? The problem is the state allows it? The state allows it. The state has provided one caste of wealth like I said before. And at the expense of who gets rich? The poorest citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And that says so what, what do you want? Well, they have to live on something by those lawyers. I'm saying, but it's a smaller number of lawyers, a smaller number of law offices. That's what, it's a dirty grammistic business that the state has legalized and nothing to anyone. And one more thing you mentioned and it's being manipulated here in the Parliament often times, and that's property over apartments. You told me we have 70%, we own apartments, houses, it's a different practice out there. All the time, that's what the Prime Minister mentioned several times. It's not worth having real estate. Citizens, don't have any real estate. We'll take it all away, you'll all be in tenants. It's a burden to have real estate. For who? For everything but capitalists. They'll have real estate, rent us out, and we'll pay for it every month. How is it not worth it to them? That's it. It's practically good brainwashing for decades, and I'm saying we need to look up to Europe because they've already completely brainwashed there.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67657	My colleague Horvat's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67658	Very interesting thesis about these apartments. In any case, it's so that in the West, mostly people live, invest in something else, and at least invest in their own properties. Or if I can, it's already a sign of some higher social standard. And we had a situation here when we said we had a stimulating apartment, so we stimulated young people to buy the first real estate, so we gave it to them, etc. Believing that this will strengthen the family, that we will give them a perspective for life, increase the birth rate, etc. etc. It's all good intentions, good plans. In the end, it turns out that after two years these young people are left out of work very easily overnight because there are now employers very ruthless lately and then what happens happens happens. The state stimulates to buy an apartment, buy property under mortgage, and then we have today a situation to take it through this kind of executive law. So we're going around in a rather bewitched circle and we don't have some real orientation and assessment of what it is today that needs to be done, and about lawyers' tariffs, the most attractive job by my assessment is just escalating in representing large systems through the bagatel collection of HT, PTT, etc., not to say any other things. And it's completely incomprehensible to me how is it possible for a lawyer's tariff to be freely negotiated? How is it possible to take 20, even 30% commission to local, in representing local self-government to resolve certain disputes. It wasn't like that once. At times, it was known exactly what was the minimum, or maximum of law offices, and it was not 30% safe.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67659	Thank you. And the last replica, Marijan Škurić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67660	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's an esteemed colleague, I'd really like to make a point and refer to your statement that we have to take good care of this cost law. In particular, when it comes to exaggeration, because at that point those citizens who are primarily the poorest, but that is where we must also take care of the owners, craftsmen, small ones who are in the same situation that when their spending is greater than their debt. There we should really find a solution so that it should not be allowed at that time. Here's an example you said. Yes, I have one example that they told us the same because in this proposal, the costs that are being calculated are primarily the costs that have really been incurred, and lawyers and public notebooks account for them as a composition of the proposals for the performance. But this also defines the costs that will arise, i.e. that are predictable, and what should be the solution for warning the perpetrator. And these costs that may arise then must once again be provided by a lawyer with a test of power, a proposal for implementation, a public notary, also a confirmation of power. That's the cost of paying the VAT again. This part of the costs of carrying out the performance that may arise or up to a level of 1000 or 2000 kuna may be excluded for such exaggeration amounts, either at one fixed amount that costs are to be incurred.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67661	Thank you. There's no answer. We'll stop working now. We'll continue after the break at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67662	... Here you go, buddy. [[Home is not saved.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67663	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Madam Deputy, dear colleagues and colleagues, you who are so professional that even in three hours you are exactly in the assembly and following the debate on a very important law, lawyers will say to me that organic, ordinary people will also tell me about the law that in today's times when we live many means being or not to be, the question of survival. During this debate on the Executive Law, many issues were raised, many issues were open, many socially-open wounds in Croatian society were lamented, though everything and everything. On behalf of the HNS Club, I will try to give our view of the fundamental issue which deals with this law, and this is an exercise as an institution as an institute, in fact, and all that this new law brings. It would be better if, as a society, we didn't have to update the Law of Conduct so spotily or make sure that the system of execution was as expedient as possible, which is more efficient, but unfortunately by a series of wrong decisions made both at the personal level and at the political level and at institutional levels over the past 20 years, we became a society in which non-payment became a model of behaviour of legal persons, companies and also of natural persons and citizens. And today, the issue of efficiency is actually one of the crucial issues of survival. All of us in many other discussions in other laws and themes have looked at the need to create an entrepreneurial climate, to enable investors to engage in projects, to engage in new entrepreneurial ventures, to create jobs, and often to talk about the need to create legal certainty in this country. However, this need to create the country's legal security, I think, except for Mr. Minister this morning, who, on several occasions, tried to explain his views and views of the proposing few who mentioned it. There was much to talk about, let's say, about the situation in which poor people and citizens, industrial workers, and also peasants in Slavonia, I will personally be very happy if the MPs, I will do so as a parliamentary representative on behalf of my party and as a man, will follow how much those whose peasants hand over their goods how disciplined they will pay their bills and whether it may be possible for the peasant to be in a position to carry out his debt to someone because someone did not pay in time and within a legal time for the delivered goods and agricultural products. As a parliamentary representative, I will closely monitor what will happen this year in this campaign and will not prevent myself from publicly calling from this pay phone and institutions that fail to do their job, as well as individuals who have been protected as face bears, and few who dare to mention their name in this room. Why is the execution necessary? It is sad as a mechanism, unpopular, unwanted, but it is necessary if we allow it to continue with the practice of defaulting, defaulting debts, then we will neither protect long-term those who have been hit by it nor protect all those people whose workplace and existence can come into question tomorrow unless the claims are charged. For this reason, the legislator is obliged to monitor the situation in that part of the functioning of the rule of law and to ensure the collection of claims and to restore the assurance of the life of our citizens, legal and physical persons that all the bills you are required to pay and that no one can be taken from the goods or services without paying it, that it cannot be missed to pay the obligations arising from the positive legal provisions adopted by this House on a proposal from the Croatian Government. Society is that if we look at it from a social point of view, it is duty to provide some other mechanisms for people who are in a difficult situation in life. It is mandatory and should certainly be done in the work of some other ministries, but we cannot resolve the social issue in Croatia by condemning the performance and such debt collection mechanisms. Although we are aware that a very large number of people in this country have come into an unwanted situation of life not by their own fault, even very diligently and honestly often by doing their job but by blaming some others who have not done their job well. In this regard, we in the HNS believe that the remark that has been made through the amendment of the Croatian Labour Party is that some types of income such as the field supplement, travel costs or I think they mentioned the post-mortem aid of such a type of income should not be subject to enforcement and we suggest to the Proposer that this issue be well considered and come to terms with common sense and logic. That sort of thing finally, in his presentation, gave him the impression of Mr. Minister. What does this law bring new ones? This law brings new ones and, let's say, it gives us a different solution that should go in the direction of countering one practice for which we all, if we are to truly consider this topic, know that this is the case, and that is to reduce the abuse of the receipt of a written or notice of the performance. This law also goes in the direction of establishing a new vision and way, a more transparent way in the opinion of the promoter of public auctions and real estate offers sold with the purpose. However, this law brings a newspaper just to avoid injustices against the perpetrators themselves. And if only that paper were the subject of new amendments and additions to the law, it would be a strong enough argument to view this law in an affirmative way. Let us consider how often, in the current legal conditions of the road, a man's process of carrying out real estate or material value that is more than the debt itself, to be sold frequently below the price, that in this way huge injustices were happening, that families, human fates were being destroyed because the law was not refined enough, sufficiently subtle and sufficiently complete. This provision that it is possible to replace with another real estate or material good that is more real, equivalent in fact to this amount of debt and thus save in many cases much more valuable real estate important for the life and survival of the perpetrators considered it sufficient, only that is sufficient reason to support this legislative proposal as the Club of the Croatian People's Party in the first reading. We certainly keep in HNS that it is good that such important things are done when there is no imperative of urgency or any formal obligation to go into emergency procedures, that such an important topic is done in a regular procedure through first reading and through, and that the possibility of opening public debates, professional public debates, if you will and political debates to further improve the work of such an important law. As I have said, there are other things that are commendable in any case, one might find it negligible but any common sense will notice a provision that puts out of action the amount of funds necessary to support young children. Because a law that does not have such a mechanism can also blame the youngest who have done nothing as minors as such in a difficult social situation and make them unequal in their growing up with peers who have a normal, minimal material status. Therefore, this detail, which acts as a detail, is also an indication that the applicant did not write this proposal without social sensitivity and subtlety. But to point out once again what we consider important, with the need to take care of the justice of the law, as far as possible, to take care of the people and the layers that will be affected, we ladies and gentlemen must simply get used to paying the bills. And not only in the context of the exercise, but we must generally return to the belief that mathematics is an exact science and that mathematics cannot argue, that business must be based on the culture of payment, the settlement of debts, that we simply can no longer function in the way we functioned. Because the truth of the will in the last 10 years, 12 years even among the entrepreneurs among whom I am moving began to overcome the belief that it is more worth being unfair, cheating, playing, not paying rather than doing business on the highest moral, professional norms and at the highest level of professional ethics. This has led us to the situation of thousands of workers in this country have lost their jobs in companies that have worked hard, delivered quality goods in time, services by the highest standards and failed because they did not have an effective mechanism to collect what they earned. Companies with honest executives and managers have fallen apart. Middle and small entrepreneurs who worked hard in their work failed and peasants who did not pay their bills in time. That's right, the peasants in Slavonia fell because they were paid for harvesting. They were paid grain by... And in the meantime, in order to meet their business needs, they took short-term loans for very high interest rates, paid heavy interest, and no one in this assembly had the courage to talk about what was going on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was silent, ma'am, because he's not touching the power man. And I would be extremely pleased if, in the first following such situation, when I go out for this pay phone and I call everyone responsible for this situation, he was still a colleague regardless of the parties who would protect the truth rationality and responsibility in politics. In our first reading, we also support the sensitivity expressed by the legislator, his caution, but also his excellence to raise the level of legal certainty in this country and to send a message that the legal institutions of this country will be effective in curbing any level and type of illegal business and that there will be ways to protect those who do business correctly from those who do not do so. The Croatian People's Party Club expects this in a public debate to be seriously discussed. And we will support this kind of effort by the Justice Department. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67664	Now we'll hear the replicas. Branko Vuksic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67665	Dear counterpart Baranovic, one of the key sentences that you had in your debate with which I fully agree, is that all accounts should be paid. And now I need... The speaker has been turned off/ /The speaker is turned on afterwards. [[Intruder: You turned off your colleague]] Now you have to talk and you've done part of it, about culture or non-culture of payments. I must say, for example, we are one country, one of the best countries in terms of paying for a TV subscription in the European Union. Say Poland pays about 50% of Polish citizens pay TV subscription, they have a lot of trouble paying TV subscriptions. In view of the state of the country, Croatian citizens are very neatly paid. You said society needs to find other mechanisms for those who have nothing to pay the bills that come every month. Last week there were two laws on which Croatian Labourers warned, we were normally called populists because of this, which we warned and we gave amendments to these laws, which is the Law on the electricity market, the law on the gas market from which it was thrown out that to poor families, those who could no longer pay are not co-financed by that gas. And then what are the other mechanisms? The only mechanism is default, when a man has no money he can't pay because there are too many unemployed in Croatia, there are too many people who have too little income, minimals or small pensions. Therefore, I agree with Mr Baranovic when he said the big ones no longer pay, the bigger ones are the ones who have and who are deaf to any bills and any legal norms.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67666	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67667	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear counterpart Vuksic, it is true that there are citizens, and I have noted this during my debate, which were, in fact, even without any personal guilt brought into a very awkward situation, or a difficult situation, family-like situation, that they can't, when they have lost their income, settle even the basic needs that they need to be part of the standard and the most minimal standard in society that tends to be socially just and sensitive. But it's also a fact that we have a culture of non-payments for those legal and physical persons who, for example, don't pay for electricity, but go to Schladming for skiing. And if we don't send a clear message and we don't build mechanisms that will put the regularity of payment and the culture of payment on pedestal, we're going to jeopardize thousands and tens of thousands in a chain with no end. And we simply can't solve things that way, and when I say that this should be sought in the work of other ministries, then it is known, if a particular family is brought into the category of socially protected family, then, through the part-time work of the Ministry of Social Care, a way and a solution to pay someone the electricity, how to pay someone water. But we cannot expect tomorrow any supplier in the liberalised electricity market to be a social shocker for everything that Croatian politics has missed to make, smart, rational and responsible in the last 20 years. So don't expect, okay, HEP is state-owned, okay, but even in that case today given the situation and position in which we put HEP liberalising the market we can't expect him to do it, let alone some foreign supplier of electricity or any other goods on the market. I think it's completely missed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67668	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67669	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Baranović, we are aware that the debate and this law encourages the deepest emotions and where more and more difficult when you see a man be left without a roof over his head and now let's say these announcements that HZ 6 months might be resolved let's say a housing question, I don't believe that in those 6 months something more significant will happen, that the situation will be fixed. But I answered the line because you mentioned peasants, farmers, not because I think I'm some spokeswoman, but I think it's a problem and you've set a very interesting thesis which is with those who don't meet their obligations to those producers, farmers, peasants. You were talking about the big one, and unfortunately I'm testifying in my midst where we produce meat and milk and the smaller ones who went out with trucks and then never again, with all the possible drive, it wasn't going to work, and of course it was a terrible blow for that family agricultural economy and it was followed by its further work, and it has nothing to buy with, and in that sense it certainly needs to be looked after for such things. But I want to warn and warn constantly about another problem that is happening in rural areas, not just peasants, farmers, but also those other, the most banal things we've heard about today, for example. about this HTV subscription, which are very up-to-date, which so effectively finds ways to go into these tasks. And now this one of mine doesn't have, of course, a FINA is 27 km, I'm talking about mine, so 27 is back, and then until this one reports to him, until he reports it's been paid there, 15, a month loses. Here are the things that are equally inadmissible and simply these people in these rural areas come into an unequal position. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67670	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67671	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Milinkovic, I greatly appreciate your concern for the peasants. It seems that we are among those who touch their torment more often. Yeah, you're right, not peasants are just victims of non-payments big because the big ones end up being big anyways, even if they're using a period to spin other people's money without interest and thus making extra profits. But the state, too, is absolutely obliged to build mechanisms to protect all those who work, deliver goods, goods and services because it is the only way we can ensure the recovery of the economy. Without it, there's no way. If we send a message to hardworking entrepreneurs, honest workers, craftsmen, to go out into the market and into a system that's like a front, which you have to be careful not to get hit by a grenade by a fraud, then at the very beginning we have concluded the story. I therefore believe that this bill and any future proposal that goes in the direction of improving legal mechanisms for protection and raising legal certainty is a full hit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67672	Ante Sanader, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67673	Madam Vice-President, I absolutely support you, and I agree with you that the legal certainty of entrepreneurs is needed, there is no alternative. If we want to be the normal society we are and what we're after, but we certainly need to be aware of the situation we're in. Because our man never wanted to be in debt. It is a shame in Croatia and in the past and now and always to be obliged. That's the tradition and culture of our people. But you also have to be aware of the situation that we're passing laws, and we're passing laws in the time that we are in, in times of crisis as it is. And you can't train strictness over those to whom the state is bound. Take an example of the Castellan greenhouses. They didn't get paid for nine months, and it's perfectly normal that they couldn't pay for either the electricity or the water or all the other giving they had. Or take Adriachem. The workers of Adriachem who earned their salary which was not paid. When the company went bankrupt, the first payment order was the state and they didn't get anything and the rest were due. And in that sense, you're talking about the social program and the social sensitivity of this government. And it's normal to be within that, and given the time we live in, the crisis we're in. We cannot pass laws and be responsible to our people by training the strictness of those weakest, by training the strictness of that grandmother or some weak and powerless. Let us train strictness on those rich, those who have real estate and property that could not achieve their own personal incomes. Let us direct our laws, make such laws to resolve you, not these small and poor ones, and especially those of whom the state is obliged. Because what message will be from here from the Croatian Parliament to the workers of the Glass who have not received their salary for 9 months. That we're just making extra laws and doing them and killing them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67674	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67675	Thank you very much. I'll start at the end with my esteemed colleague Sanader. If the state is in charge of the workers, let them do it, let them not have any scruples, and let them seek what is theirs. Because the law is written for both citizens and legal and natural persons. I don't see any reason why workers wouldn't look that way and ask for their salaries. I'm not a legal expert, but let someone correct that possibility exist for me. As for the rich and the poor, it does not train the state to be strict on the poor, but rather the state is in a situation, or the government is in a situation to save the state, that it must start introducing order in the country. Cuts that cut sometimes are painful. People who do surgery know they have to give the patient anesthesia. In this case, anesthesia is not available or very ineffective. It's going to hurt my colleague Sanader, it's going to hurt to fix everything that's been done or done wrong in the last 20 years, which is what gave birth to the situation of having the rich and the poor. So about this unfair difference between the rich and the poor, about how they produced rich in the Republic of Croatia, how people who were average workers with average personal income until yesterday, with an average level of education became tycoons overnight, privatized companies, sold them, raised money and went to Switzerland. Great! Some in Croatian politics should have thought about it when they created this model, when they created a caste of those who had already realized in the first step that it could be unfairly, incorrectly, immorally, unprofessionally and unethically come to wealth and throw workers under their feet. Now you've had enough taking care of the workers, now you've had enough after 20 years. I must tell you that you have as a political option a very late burn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67676	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67677	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Baranovic, we often have such a thing as not to say duels, but sometimes consensual attitudes at least in some ways. In fact, you were talking about gifts for children who have already become rare in the state of Croatia, not in Denmark that are paid in bonuses, etc. and commended, therefore, the social quote: "social sensibilities". You were also talking about agriculture, but you didn't say that the good part of our farmers' debt is the debt of the state to farmers. A year and a half later agreed, so the state's signed obligations to farmers, and that's why farmers fall into such difficulties as you described them. So I'm interested and I'm very interested in the passion of your struggle for these Slavonian farmers whether they'll finally be such that the state pays off and what's signed and agreed on within some reasonable time frame for our farmers. Now, when I talk about social sensibility, then it's for companies, for companies, for legal persons in the form of pre-fashion deals and respected because it's said to keep jobs. But when it comes to individuals, then I don't see too many social sensitivity because we still don't have the Personal Bank Act, and it would be worth pointing out that 300 thousand people are in a blockade and of that, from bonuses, so bank manager bonuses and their multimillion-dollar bonuses were built right on minuses, on the blockade of Croatian citizens' accounts in banks. That would be a real social insensitivity.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67678	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67679	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Grubisic, that we are becoming a frequent picture of you and I in this Croatian Assembly. You've opened up some questions and we're always going back to the compass of a ship's end that I've spent my working life on when you start from scratch and you're turning right, you get to 350, and at the end of 360, or you go back to zero or north, north. Without normal payment obligations, either in mutual business relations, or in relation to the state, or in relation to the two natural persons. Without order in this society, we have no prosperity, no chance. We cannot expect a state budget in which some do not have discipline or effective collection mechanisms to pay in time for this budget that cannot be properly charged in time to carry out its obligations to farmers. We're going around in circles, a vicious circle that we have to like Alexander Macedonian to cut with one blow because we don't have another choice. It's just like when you're caught at sea by a storm of 100 miles an hour. I cut my own tool that was worth thousands and thousands of marks at that time with an axe to save the people and the crew. It wasn't easy for me to make that decision in five seconds, but I cut steel lines, I left everything in the sea to save people. There's a government in this situation now, too. He must make decisions that intersect like Alexander Macedonian. No choice, no ladies and gentlemen of choice let's not be wrong in this assembly. We can't tolerate any more non-payments. And there will be collateral casualties, that's a fact and that's true. There will be collateral casualties. But we don't have any other choice.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67680	We're moving on to an individual debate. He's a colleague of Drazenko Pandek's first.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67681	I thank the esteemed Vice-President of the Parliament, the esteemed deputy minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. By reading this proposal to amend and supplement the Implementing Law, I find that a number of solutions should certainly be commended, which will significantly contribute to the efficiency of the executive process, but also to measures aimed at facilitating the position of creditors where they are taken into account the circumstances of social status. Among the teams, I particularly welcome the provision that enables real estate contractors to meet the basic housing needs of theirs and persons who are legally required to maintain so that they use real estate as tenants for 6 months since the conclusion of the transfer of real estate. This provision is an extremely social opinion, and it will at least make it easier for some time for those who have entered into an invisible financial situation. However, even here in the debate has already been highlighted in some European countries, we have had the opportunity to witness the practice of carrying out real estate because of the consequences caused by this recent financial crisis, so a temporary moratorium has been introduced to these procedures so as to avoid the massive disposal of people on the street and the creation of a socially difficult and unacceptable situation. As we unfortunately feel the consequences of the crisis as well as our environment, I would suggest here that an additional consideration be given to the extension of this deadline by another 6 months, provided that the perpetrator pays at least the rent neatly for the first 6 months. In this way, I am of the opinion that further facilitating the position of the perpetrators who, in these times, we still agree, all need to be relieved but also to protect the legitimate interest of the executive. I don't think it's in anyone's interest to find a large number of people on the street in a short time, but not suddenly to end up on the market a large number of properties that will then stand unsold or fall significantly. So I think the extension of this time out is a desirable solution with saying and the executives would be protected in a way that would still ensure the payment in several months of rent for that property. The commendation also deserves the introduction of an electronic auction solution that I believe will contribute to the implementation of and that this solution will prevent speculation about the damage to the credentials due to the fact that real estate has been sold to them at a lower price than it could have been realistically. And these situations, unfortunately, have been in practice so far. When we talk about this topic of electronic communication, this proposal certainly brings improvement in this direction. However, I would further propose as a subject that might well be considered to introduce an executive obligation to specify in the executive proposal the address of the e-mail of the perpetrators if he owns it. And then, of course, the obligation to deliver all and the letters and solutions on the performance and via e-mail to the performer besides therefore delivery in classical form. Many service providers already have email addresses for their recipients, and many already deliver electronic accounts for services. And I think this provision would somehow help better and faster informing debtors. In practice, I don't think it's a rare situation for many debtors to know how to change their residences, but with their residence they don't change the address of the e-mail. Or something goes wrong with their delivery. To many, then, the decision on the performance or the debt notice was previously delivered to the old address and did not settle the debt for it, but as a result began the procedure of the enforcement which meant the extension of the charge and, of course, the additional costs. And I think maybe this solution could help deliver better and maybe solve the problem before it comes to the process of enforcement. When we talk about the subject of the basic identification number, it is an obligation to state it in the executive proposal. It is extremely good and it will prevent many situations when the wrong identification of the perpetrators is due to the same name and last name. However, the process of obtaining that number mostly goes by written request from the IRS. This in nature slows the process and creates additional costs, and it seems to me it would be good to try to simplify the process. One of my proposals would be to give public notebooks access to personal identification numbers, whether that approach is allowed in the court itself with a certain small fee. If we are concerned about the possibility of abuse of this authorisation, we should say that today's technical possibilities of course enable to know and see exactly who it is and when accessing the data, and the programming basis can be arranged to include both the reason and the justification for access to the data. This is, of course, a question of inter-resorship cooperation, but I believe that such cooperation between the ministries, between several ministries, should necessarily be opened and this issue of connecting the databases between the state authorities means between the ministries but between the ministry and the courts and other bodies, I think it is necessary to raise to a level of first-class importance, because such networking could bring about significant savings and time and money. As one of the major problems in implementing the exercise, it is pointed out that the total executive amount often exceeds the amount of the debt. The improvement in this problem certainly constitutes a provision that the executive for all actions in the process in front of the public notary would now have the right to compensation the costs, so for only one award for the work of lawyers and other persons and that is an extremely good solution. However, it should also be pointed out that the executive amount can double the initial debt, primarily because the tightening interest increases that basic debt to such a extent. Although well, this is not a narrow topic of this debate, but with this I require the necessary pointed out that a policy of tight interest should also be considered. It seems to me that under today's conditions, they're simply too high. So, if someone owes me and I'm sure I'll be able to collect from him, it's a very specific situation for me, because the kind of profit they make with heavy interest can't be achieved in any ordinary activity unless it's a matter of not knowing about arms trafficking or drugs. Because of the high these tight interest rates in practice, there are examples where some natural persons because they have fallen in receipts never get to pay off the debt because they are constantly paying off interest and the principal remains and, over time, even multiple payments to the principal and the debt to them is further, remains if he is therefore sued, if it has not become obsolete. It's a situation that I don't think is good at all, requires a certain solution. Although it must be a solution outside of this law but as this topic is closely related to the subject of the performance here I would give here an initiative in this direction. One solution is the introduction of a basic bankruptcy institute, which I would support as well as a considerable number of MPs here in the debate, and I look forward to the ministry as the minister said, will eventually come out with a proposal for the law. The debate also highlights the problem of blocking an account where the business of a particular entity is therefore completely blocked until the debt is fully paid. It is a problem in practice and it is personally highlighted to me when I was in contact on the ground especially with craftsmen. Therefore, they often find themselves in a situation that they cannot legally pay or purchase material for their business and then have two choices in that situation. Either he closes his business or he starts paying in black cash. And so many decide for this other solution. Their proposal, which I am passing along, I have taken the obligation to pass on the debt to the craftsmen, but there may be other categories that may be considered not to carry out all the income that comes to their account but rather to be carried out at a certain amount, for example, in case we have a payday, for example. to complete 65 or 70% of the amounts representing their income. In this way, they would have little air to continue the basic activity, at least for the purchase of repromations, so to ensure what, such a continuation of the activity and with an emphasis on business would they be more likely to repay the debt. Finally, I would say that these amendments and additions to the executive law are also a significant improvement, and when we talk about speeding up and facilitating the implementation process but also have significant effects on facilitating the social status of the perpetrators and facilitating their difficult situation, it is therefore necessary to support them and that this is the first reading here I hope that the Proposer will also follow the proposals for further improvement.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67682	Drazen Djurovic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67683	Thank you. Well, a colleague of mine would agree with you anyway when you mentioned the problem of tight interest although it is not directly regarding this law, the tight interest is really still too high. Also when you mentioned this information and the need to further strengthen information and public administration and how this government is working to further strengthen information between the public administration body, I would remind you, for example, that I was personally impressed by the fact that the Ministry of Interior refused my amendment to link, for example, the Ministry of Interior to the HZZO database so that they could download the information on general practitioners, the holder of the armed papers, they refused the amendment and left it with a solution to bring each holder of the armed list to the MUP confirmation of who is his doctor of general practice, although HZZO naturally had its own base and seemed to them as a better solution for 200 thousand people from pilgrimage to the police and to take that confirmation than that they, as an HZOOO base, and only to release data or regularly update information about who is a doctor of general medicine. So it's not a matter of diagnosis or treatment but of public data or of who your doctor is, since they've been looking for this information as a MUP and they've refused to, for example, enter that obligation into the law of the Ministry and simply do it. What I'm saying is that this is one example that really seemed to me to be the senseless conduct of a state ministry that doesn't really want in this simple way to be linked to one of the databases of another state body.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67684	Replication response, Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67685	Actually, I agree. I think it is up to us to try to insist that as much as possible the principles of e-Government and the integration of these databases are implemented as possible in practice. I personally also often see in the ministries that there are at those lower levels, oscillating some levels of very strong resistance and any kind of information because it also requires additional effort but requires additional education of people who are used to working by methods that are 20, 30 or more years old. They're big, and I've been doing the same thing in management, and I know there's a lot of resistance inside these structures in general to any change. It's up to all of us to essentially initiate, to talk and try these structures to cost it what it says.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67686	Next replica, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67687	Thank you very much. Dear Pandek, you have warned of the tight interest that, as a rule of interest preceding the executive procedure, should also be stressed by the unilateral change of interest rates already agreed before the executive procedure itself, which brings even more into a more unfavourable position of the credentials. Therefore, it is necessary to review always the circumstances that have led to the execution because rarely the conduct of the action does not carry a criminal application or a suit. And it is impossible to compare the executive procedure of civilised countries with Croatia because they cannot achieve those circumstances that occur in Croatia and are preceding the executive procedure. What's going on and how he's forced the believer to complete his real estate, how much his unilateral contractual clauses change, how much interest he's getting, how much he's got on his tight interest, that's why our courts are all over him with lawsuits, but I'm saying, and criminal charges. What do I think of the executive procedures and the completed properties in Croatian? I'll give you the best and the best of words that even under the threat of a rifle on the temple, I would never buy such a property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67688	The answer to the replica Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67689	Thank you. Yes, unfortunately, there have been many things that have not been right in the past implementation of the performance and things before the performance, and I think these changes and additions have also been aimed at improving things, but I think that some time ago we had a proposal for a law from the Ministry of Finance that was about to disable such a arbitral and easy change and a variable tightening interest rather than a condition that interest should not be tightened but contractual interest, so I apologize, therefore, a law which should now be tied to variable interest rates with precise parameters. I hope that the application of this law will also prevent these abuses you've been talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67690	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67691	In your debate, colleague, you rightly pointed out the social moment that bears this law. Unlike those who now mourn and weep over the perpetrators themselves, they were assigned to them by private perpetrators. So much for that. Then we can think of what private perpetrators would do and how to deal with the perpetrators. However, I also believe that until the second reading of the Government and only the ministry should be modelled in other countries, especially when it comes to the creditors of the bank, and when it comes to the intention, so on the debt that young families can't pay off with underage children, at least to establish a moratorium for a few years because it's precisely those who are the most vulnerable, who have lost their jobs who have to leave their apartment. Where's he going? Of course they'll be on the burden again as much as, besides personal drama, society, or state. And on the other hand, they didn't take any risks. I think banks must take risks, too, especially when it comes to cases like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67692	Replication response, Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67693	Well, I certainly would, I think that this proposal is one of the good proposals that are on track and some of the solutions in this law, especially this solution to delay, so the implementation of the exercise, that is to say, the perpetrators get the status of protected,... protected tenants. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Certainly, as I have already pointed out in the debate, this measure would certainly contribute to this and not find these people on the street, but also not to find a large number of real estate on the market in short time, making it difficult to sell these properties and thus adding value to them, which is not for the benefit of the executives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67694	Final presentation on behalf of the HSU Club, colleague Zeljko Shemper, 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67695	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister. We have seen from today’s debate that there are still a lot of problems in carrying out the work. On the current morning, the HSU club initiated a solution to a major problem exactly a year ago in the procedures of the operation where pensioners were completed their entire pensions. Article 173 of this Law states: "The implementation excludes an amount of 2/3 of the average net salary, and in paragraph 4 is also valid for pensions". Neither this provision of the law nor the open protective accounts protected the laws prescribed by 2/3 of pensions. This was possible because the pensioners in the public notebooks naively signed certificates or consents to which they agreed if they would not be able to pay off their debt wars on a regular basis. The result of our request was the Ministry of Finance's rule that made it impossible to carry out more than 1/3 of the pension even though the certificate or so-called consent was signed. It was a quick and good solution but I, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU, suggest that now and in this Implementing Law, the nullity of the signed certificate be entered... to the public notary and thus to achieve even greater legal certainty and protection of pensioners. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67696	Thank you very much. Lastly, on behalf of the proposer, Deputy Minister Andre, Sandra Artuković-Kunšt, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67697	It's all right. Thank you very much. Honorable MPs and MPs. The topic was a performance and it was a process of forced collection of dues and unpaid claims. Any state that seeks to be a legal state should have a developed system of forced collection of obligations that have arisen in that country and that is, of course, our focus. These amendments to the Executive Act are not beyond the continuity of what was previously done in the field of enforcement, on the contrary, they represent a repair and a step forward and also in this segment relating to social protection because the Executive Act also has provisions of social character. These are provisions in the section relating to the exemption from the application in order to limit the implementation of the application. However, we are part of these provisions now in this proposal and have extended. We were talking about a deal compared to the big ones and the small ones. In order for the legal system to be appropriate, in full sense, it cannot make selection between large and small but should provide tools that will enable the believer to collect his claim against the debtor. The aim is to establish such a system that allows us to achieve what our goal is, so that we can make capital available and start the investment wheel and thus create jobs from which debt will then be charged. We're now talking about it being necessary to reverse that movement we've had so far with cultural non-payments. It is precisely the objective of the culture of payments that could guide us in solving and in relation to these issues that are being raised here. On the basis of a culture of non-payments, the culture of interest and cost-setting in the executive process has also developed. We intervened also in the part relating to costs and that and in this law, and in agreement to the Bar of Law in their tariff which we had previously changed. But what's important is what might be the goal of developing a culture of payments. So the debtor realizes that there is no solution called postponing the obligation to pay indefinitely. We only have two options or the debt will settle, and we are aware and we have talked earlier about whether the debt must be paid or we will transfer the debt to the believer which will be very difficult to do since it is a private debt, so it is a private believer and his free will that he does not give up his claim or we will transfer the debt to the state. And the question is, who exactly is the state? It's all of us, it's our budget, and how much it's even opportune and office to charge the state budget for, say, the claims of individuals that have been made in loans and what you've already said. The goal should be to charge debt as soon as possible with as little cost and as little interest as possible. And that's why we think the greatest added value of this law is to include debtors in the real estate process, so with his more active role in the offer so that debt can be settled. The moment the debtors actively participate in the goal of resolving the debt as soon as possible, and that the sooner the agony ends, the sooner we can get rid of the big interest issues and big-cost issues, that's all on an individual level, but, of course, at a global level, we'll open up the possibility that capital will finally start moving around this country. This also concerns moratorium issues, so we would not choose to impose moratorium because it creates a commitment to the state. The state cannot take over claims that it has a debtor and settle them to the believer nor can it force the believer to decide to wait a year or how long to collect claims. It is a provision to consider, but it should also be borne in mind that each delay, either for 6 months or for a year, still remains a continuous pile of interest and actually increases debt. We were talking about connecting with the OIB and with the public records. It's the procedure we're working on intensively. We've slowed down a little to protect personal data and the level of depth that you can get into when you get that data, but we'll figure it out real quick. And information is one of the keys we're going through in the execution of the mission. It also concerns the informing of the very system of executive procedures and e-registrations, so that this is one systemic solution on the basis of all the changes we are working on in the area of justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67698	Thank you. Ivan Drmic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67699	I'd say a few words about one category of perpetrators to say so, and that's the worst category, which is people who haven't borrowed a loan and this law doesn't regulate anything about their problems. These are the people who didn't raise the loan, so they didn't raise the money and spend it, and they were guarantees or jurisprudences and simply the man who didn't repay the loan even though he gave the mortgage to the real estate or some other way the payment insurance got into trouble, and the bank directly carried out the work on that man's salary. Mass is such cases, I don't believe there are any statistics at all but I'm the only one that moves around like this in the company of the mass of these people I've met. They complain and find themselves in an unexplored situation is every bank when it charges a loan rather than taking cash from these people and simply doesn't want to run a business over the real estate of the man who took the loan. It's also the CNB's fault, and so this government is clear from the beginning that the man who's taking the loan has no conditions to raise the credit. So the bank knows in advance that whoever she's giving credit to won't be able to repay it, but it simply says bring in two guarantees or a judge and you'll be able to make a loan. People like us if they can jump in to help each other to get credits, do it, and here today you have tens of thousands of cases where people pay each other back, and they simply can't feed their children on their own. You need to install one mechanism into the second reading of the law that the person who gave the mortgage did not want or could not repay the loan, it is returned to the guarantee that this guarantee can go to the bank and apply for the activation of the mortgage on the property that the creditor gave as a guarantee. Not to be 20, 25 and even 30 years Bringing the loan back to someone else's back. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, dear colleague.]] So this category is the most endangered story of all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67700	Reply to the replica Sandra Artuković-Kunšt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67701	Thank you very much, so I'll just say about the guarantee question and the little letters we've been talking about recently. You said yourself, the bank knew the debtor wouldn't pay back the debt, even more so knew I owed it. Small letters, what's in the contract in small letters. So if I can't read the fine print, then the contract doesn't have to be concluded. That's all I'm gonna say.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67702	And Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67703	Dear Mrs. Artuković-Kunšt, I agree with you, with that finding of yours you said should develop a culture of payments. That's quite true, because if we don't start paying all our bills. However, the state treats very much in a different way and treats those who are lowly in debt and whose small debt means the survival of entire families. And in order to develop a culture of payments, we must, as it says in the Constitution, achieve a prerequisite for that, and that is the social state. When we discussed earlier that support for the poor families to pay for gas and electricity was abolished, then it was said here, I don't know who said that the price of electricity and gas can't keep social peace when we're on the market and the European market. You shouldn't be with, it shouldn't be in the Electricity Act and the Gas Act. Let's make it a social measure, but you can't stop it first, so let's say we're going to find some tools, mechanisms to help these families. So far, this family is dead, frozen. It is insensitive to those who need the most help and deny help. We're talking about small-time performances here when people are forced, they have nothing to pay for. And when you come to the door of some social services there say, go knock on that door. Do government members live in the real world? Do they talk to people who have problems, do they read e-mails that come? I just don't understand how the government is interpreting something, in six months it's going to be resolved or in a year. Who's gonna help those people in the year? That's the problem, there won't be a culture of payments until the country's problems are solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67704	Reply to the replica Sandra Artuković-Kunšt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67705	As I said, the executive law should provide tools for the forced collection of outstanding claims. The executive law has built-in social elements that we have mentioned, hence the restriction or exemption from the exercise. And social rights are protected within the framework of social rights and they are actually protected within the framework of support for the payment of directors, i.e. communals, etc., you know that very well. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67706	I'm closing the debate on the bill. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67707	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the executive law, first reading, P.Z. No. 571. The debate on the bill is over. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Executive Act is adopted. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law. I'd like to make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 83 votes in favour and 20 votes against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67708	We now move on to: - Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of Real estate and movables in the Executive Procedure, first reading, P.Z. No. 602; The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In the adoption of this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice, and their reports were received at the session. Introductoryly, the bill will be explained by Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković-Kunšt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67709	Thank you very much. So, apart from the Executive Act that we have now talked about and to which law we propose amendments concerning the implementation of the property sale process in the executive procedure. The progress of technology and in particular IT enables more effective enforcement by clearly delimiting judicial proceedings from other technical matters, and by transferring these cases from judicial jurisdiction to other bodies. We talked about continuity, and one of the continuitys under these regulations was the addition to the first significant step in this sphere, and it was the Law on the implementation of the 2011 budget implementation, i.e. which started on 1 January 2011 and which the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the trustee's money with the bank entrusted to the financial agency. We were talking earlier about the financial agency, and they were said here, if I may say the criticisms at the expense of the financial agency. The State shall have a structure with sufficient tools and a network wide enough to bear that information burden of part of the implementation of the performance. And this has been successfully implemented in the process of carrying out the budget implementation and we predict that it will also be successfully implemented through real estate implementation procedures. Therefore, the OIB database, the personal identification number and here at the payment on funds are used to account for the database of the single account register. An effective system of collection has been realized that does not depend on the arbitration of an individual or a natural person but simply comes down to a bipolar system that is informatively passable. The percentage of religious demand is increased. And in general, what is a big problem and what cannot be the subject of different agreements but really effective collection is reduced private debt. It has proved to be a justified normative solution which regulates the implementation by a specific regulation, so that the basic regulation is not burdened with provisions relating to implementing bodies and technical aspects of implementation. The proposal to improve the implementation of the real estate and movables is also on the trail. The need for the adoption of this law stems, i.e. motivated us on the one hand by the state of the real estate market which we cannot say is favourable. On the other hand, there is an existing sale of real estate at the oral public auctions of a particular court. Therefore, real estate as an exercise at the oral public auctions of a particular court does not foster the interest of potential customers because they are simply not informed enough and do not know that in a particular court they are auctioning real estate. On the long side, no significant prices are realised, the believers did not settle their claims, and the debtors did not settle their debts. What we've been talking about before continues, interest rates are running, costs are increasing. Therefore, in public auctions if none, or a small number of customers, participates, we cannot achieve the effects we want. The maximum number of potential customers remain outside the implementation process and resulting in a low purchase price or not selling real estate at all. The sale of movables in the executive procedures has produced even worse results because it is a fact that it is mainly sold movables which are in itself unattractive, and also because the sale of the movables themselves has not been advertised in one place, so that interest or registration of customers could arise from this place. This new proposed solution allows for the further development of the Agency's performance in order to achieve monetary demand on real estate and movables through the transfer of competences for executive actions technically from courts to the Financial Agency. It is certainly not that the Financial Agency will now work and decide on the performance, it will only carry out technical tasks concerning the advertising of real estate and movables and the collection of funds achieved in the performance, and then later by distribution or distribution of those funds and what is most important in a transparent manner and of course more effective. The objectives we intend to achieve here are to establish a more real value of real estate, where this reality stems not from what we have assessed but from what the market will achieve. This is where it was said that FINA was going to evaluate the real estate. FINA does not estimate anything more than what the initial price is and it may be good if we do not even set the starting price. What is therefore the aim of the purchasers who will apply at auctions offer their price and thus establish its market value. A wider range of potential customers will ensure that sales information is available in simpler ways. This will, of course, result in the participation of more customers in public auctions. This is where real estate sales are expected at higher prices than before, but the solution to some of the problems we talked about here, and let's say agricultural land or rounding up such land, etc. Therefore, the adoption of this law will allow a greater number of potential real estate and movable customers in the executive process to obtain simpler, more timely and more transparent information. Public communications on the Agency's website will make faster and simpler delivery, so calls for payment of advances to cover the cost of sales, calls for participation in the electronic auction, the collection of offers by electronic means are all new technical achievements that can significantly speed up this part of the process. All real estate and movables offered by electronic auctions by the executive will be located in the register of the real estate and movables of the agency that carries out their sale and will thus be more simple, faster and more efficient in conducting the real estate and movable process. What is important, therefore, is of no less importance, and thus the courts will disburse this part of the case because it is indeed only technical and does not fall under trial activity. The electronic public auction will be conducted by the Agency's activity. After the bail is paid, whoever wants to participate in the auction and pays the bail will get a certain number of identifiers and will anonymously participate in the auction which we also consider to be of great quality. Real estate and movable offers will therefore be collected by electronic means. Those purchases that will be made will be paid to the Agency and the Agency will, without delay and without delay, carry out the transfer of those funds on the basis of a valid settlement solution provided to the Agency by the implementing body, hence the court or public notary. We believe that this proposed solution is in line with technical achievements and opportunities and that, in this respect, it should be adopted as an improvement of the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67710	Replica, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67711	Thank you very much. Madam Deputy, what is key to this law and this law that we've been discussing all morning, in which the garland phase is with the introduction of the OIB. Because at the moment the OIB was introduced in the garnery, only 5% of the owners were registered through JMBG. Therefore, whether or not we are going to carry out our duties in accordance with the principle of off-book ownership or whether the key body of the Ministry of Justice will finally be brought into order and then, on the basis of that, do what needs to be done. Another thing, when the state and units of local self-government will register what they have taken away from people in one way or another, either for infrastructure facilities or for the financing of certain residential settlements, which is still going on today on people who have been taken away from them in the '50s, and you have some real estate there today. So a series of things that the Department of Justice must first solve in his own house. And the other thing, no one was criticizing Finna today, though, but we've expressed concern that at this point FINA has no experts who are able to assess the property. It's a special profile of people's experts. You have now said something quite different from what the minister said this morning, you said that practically FINA advertises that there will be real estate data on its website and that money will be paid to its accounts. And then the question arises, again, that interstep remains who will assess that property before it is placed on what, as an obligation that this property can be sold through public auctions. So this property has to be evaluated, and that's something the minister didn't say this morning because he said otherwise, he said it would work for FINA. However, you have now said something diametric contrary. You said that FINA would only work a technical part of the job, informatively, nothing else and open accounts to be paid on the basis of laws to be paid as bail, deposit and other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67712	Reply to the replica Sandra Artuković Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67713	Thank you very much. The issue of ownership and the question of the common information system of land books is something we were working intensively on when we came to the ministry because the situation was pretty bad. But we've led it to usability, so the ZIS is going to work, it's going to work within the e-record. In parallel, we have also defined the introduction of the OIB into land books as a prerequisite for enrolment. Allow me if I can answer, I've been listening. You'll probably let me say it all the way. So, the recording of ownership rights in relation to units of local self-government or anyone else that you've been talking about is a matter of their implementation. We will later have the Act of Exclusion on the agenda, so we can talk about it. You are talking about an estimate of the value of the property, and the value of the property is not the subject of this law at all but the initial price. It's something else entirely.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67714	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67715	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law on the implementation and sale of real estate and movables in the executive procedure is a follow-up to the first reading of amendments and additions to the Executive Act. The SDP club will support this proposal. We believe that this system of real estate and movable sales in the executive process will be more efficient and transparent, resulting from a series of mechanisms embedded in this system. There have been a lot of interventions in the executive procedure, and this system, and in order to achieve efficiency, has been quite done in the transfer of affairs from judicial jurisdiction to other bodies. However, none of the legal interventions in the executive procedure so far, although everything has gone towards speeding up and simplifying the executive procedure, and the dispensation of courts has not seriously intervened in real estate. This bill achieves better information from potential customers, bids and price hikes to help the performer and the elaborate electronic public auction will avoid auctioning as well as in other segments, which is more transparent is the possibility of setting up corruption and the grey zone. The design of the immovable property and movables in the executive procedure shall prevent the closure and speculativeity of the process and suppress the black market. The conclusion on the sale is now published on the court’s advertising board in another common way, and is delivered to the parties to the taxpayers, the persons entitled to the first purchase, the participants in the procedure and the competent authority of the Tax Administration. Thus, a relatively small number of customers participated in public auctions, resulting in a low purchase price. We believe that the solutions offered by this legislative proposal will just prevent the closure of the process, thus narrowing the room for manoeuvre to the black market. The elaborate electronic and public auction contributes to avoiding auctioning. It is now prescribed that at the first hearing the property cannot be sold below 4/5 and on the second one not below half the value. If the parties agree before the entry into force of the agreement before a court or in the form of a public-booking document, they may also be below 1/3 of the value of the property. In determining the value of the property, there is no need to precede the assessment procedure by the authorised expert, which is certainly not transparent, and any non-transparentity in particular in higher value procedures brings us into the gray zone. The result was very often that the believer did not settle down, and the perpetrator continued to remain in debt and not only debt but also without more valuable property than the debt itself. This proposal provides for the sale of real estate and movables in the executive procedure, and provides for the sale of movables and real estate to those proposed by the Executive Agency in the electronic public auction. A way of communication between the Agency and the implementing bodies has been arranged, the obligation of the Agency to open specific accounts to which only the purchase, deposit and bail funds will be placed. The Agency's obligation to register movables and real estate in the register as well as the storage, protection and storage of data from the eyewitnesses, the sale of real estate and movables at an electronic public auction, the spot transfer of cash obtained by sale and the supervision of the Ministry of Justice of the application of this law has been arranged. Legislative decisions amending and supplementing the Implementing Law, and consequently the provisions of this law seek to prevent the abuse observed in the executive procedure. The executive procedures are being accelerated, the deadlines for action are significantly shortened, the rights of the perpetrators are being protected stronger, while the believer is faster to settle his demand. These new rules seek to simplify, speed up the procedure of enforcement, reduce costs, relieve courts and strengthen legal certainty in the process. For this reason, the SDP will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67716	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, colleague Marijan Skvarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67717	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished deputies, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HNS Club will support this proposal for a law on the implementation of real estate and movable sales in the executive procedure. It is, in particular, pointed out that in that part and that we have discussed in the previous debate on the part of the Executive Act it is very important for us to exercise the right to equality before the law and the Constitution, and for the rights and fair trial within the meaning of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the EU Regulation and the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. We also support it because the intensity is of course to be an absolute cost reduction and of course to speed up the process. Because as we have said, the executive law and the executive procedure itself is, in any case, uneasy, unpleasant and inappropriate for those who are, above all, actually, believers, and especially for debtors. Here, the basic regulations that resolve this, above all, is the Executive Act, in order to make the executive procedure more effective, and the Law on the implementation of the implementation of the financial assets that the Financial Agency has become competent to implement the implementation of the implementation of the financial resources of the contractors at the bank. But in that part, there is also a procedure of enforcement over both real estate and movables. And that part of the exercise so far has not been fully effective. In fact, real estate was sold at low prices at comparative public auctions and with the participation of a small number of customers, where creditors could not settle their claims, while debtors failed to settle their debts. The sales of movables also showed poorer results due to the lack of attractiveness of the movables themselves as well as the fact that the sale of movables was not advertised in one place. So in that part, it's very important to define a new state, new measures. Thus, a new enforcement arrangement is proposed in order to achieve monetary demand over real estate and movables by transferring the power of executive sales from courts to the Financial Agency. The new system should be more transparent, more efficient and allow for the real value of real estate to be established. Also, potential customers will find out more easily in one place what will result in the participation of more customers in public auctions and are expected to sell real estate at higher prices. In order to speed up the process and make it more transparent, it is proposed that the Institute of Public Publications be written on the Agency's website, with the legal presummation of the regular delivery of letters over the course of the eighth day of publication on the website. Furthermore, the possibility of delivering letters in the form of an electronic document within the meaning of the law governing the use of electronic documents is foreseen. It is also proposed that the Financial Agency shall keep an eye on the real estate and movables sold in the executive procedure, leaving the conduct of the eyewitnesses at the HGK for these cases. The financial agency would open up special accounts to carry out the tasks assigned to it. The financial agency shall publish an invitation to participate in the electronic auction upon receipt of a request for real estate, on its website after the Agency’s executives have paid an advance to cover the costs of the sale. At the electronic auction, it won't be possible to make more identical offers, which is good. The offer is made by electronic means, and the Financial Agency allows bidders to make offers directly in the business units of the Agency. The settlement of the creditors will follow after the Financial Agency has received from the bodies carrying out the exercise of a valid settlement solution. The draft law also proposes the adoption of sublegal implementing rules. It is necessary to adopt a Regulation on the content and manner of keeping an eye on real estate and movables sold in the executive procedure. It is also necessary to adopt a Regulation on the way and procedure of carrying out the sale of real estate and movables in the executive procedure, as well as a rule on the type and level of compensation for the conduct of the tasks prescribed by the draft law. First of all, the subject matter of this law will be within the framework of the sale of real estate in the executive procedure of the Agency will be carried out on the basis of the basis for the implementation of the mandate provided to it by the implementing authority. The regional centres of the Agency whose local competence is determined according to the authority of the implementing authority shall be responsible for the sale of real estate. Real estate is sold at an electronic auction on the basis of a request for sale submitted to the Agency by the implementing authority and also by the agencies on their website to publish an invitation for payment of advances to cover the costs to be incurred by the Agency in connection with the sale of real estate. And after receiving the advance payment, the agency announces an invitation to participate in the electronic auction. And it's also on your website. Only persons who have previously made bail may participate as bidders in the electronic auction. Regional centres of the Agency whose local competence is determined according to the authority of the implementing authority shall also be responsible for the implementation of the movement sales in the executive procedure. The Agency shall sell the movables at an electronic auction on the basis of the request of the implementing and implementing body. Here is again on the basis of all these measures that will need to be made more effective in implementing the executive procedure, as we have also pointed out that the cost reduction, the acceleration of the procedure and, of course, that all in this auction procedure will be equal to the HNS club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67718	Thank you. On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67719	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here, actually this is the sequel to today's morning or morning better say debates. We have already been part of the material or data or part of the debate and have dedicated this part, that is, this legislative proposal called the Law on the Implementation of Real estate and movables in the executive procedure. Immediately one small correction, when spoken in the assessment of the situation and the basic issues to be regulated by law and the consequences that law-making will take place, so Chapter 2, states that monetary claims on real estate and movables are to be transferred by the jurisdiction of the executive action and the sale from courts to the Financial Agency. Not from the courts, but from the courts, yes, a letter or a voice is added to the letter or voice with in case the word after that starts with s, z, z and s. So from the courts to the Financial Agency, not from the courts, right? But, well, that's one little nomotechnical mistake I hope won't happen again, is it? What does this law say about movables and property that are in the executive procedure? It says that the boredom of potential customers was low and it says that the success of such procedures was weak especially on the movement, something a little better success was at the code to say that we are finally having this one again to our FINA which will actually be carrying out the real estate and movable processes in the executive process, so after what I said today in the SDK debate after ZAP, we have FINA which has become one small wastelander in order to be in full power and have a job there, so it will also have to deal with real estate and movable and estimated the value of real estate and movables and movables. Therefore, in this material, the assessment of the situation states that there was a very small number of customers before, while the largest number of potential customers remained out of the sales process. This resulted in a low purchase price that was achieved by sale. Similarly, sales of movables in executive procedures have taught even worse results. Now, if we have heard from previous speakers from this speaker that this law will contribute to the effectiveness and transparency of this final process, the conclusion of the executive procedure by e-roading and public auctioning, and will therefore be carried out, that there will be a larger number, I am just not sure whether more potential customers are expected in the country, therefore in the Republic of Croatia, or if customers from abroad are expected. The impoverished Croatian people and citizens except a few maybe hundreds of families will be difficult and as Mr. Maric says, I would never compete in a tender for the purchase of such property because it is very clear that the real estate has come, in which way and which all the proceedings have preceded and which pain the former owner has preceded so that the debtor, the performer, would guarantee it not only to the debtors, but to guarantee on some kind of loans that his property as a guarantee would enter public auction through FINA and e-competation. And I'm in the belief that it might be a more effective process to sell such properties and movables, but that we'll avoid how someone says the gray zone doesn't believe it. There is a way and there is always a way to suit someone and to get a certain real estate or a relative for the amount that is suitable or as one is agreed and that cannot be avoided. You can open a hundred e-competitions this and offer but there are always opportunities such as that and as they say there is a hole in the law such that it can always be achieved determined to say what we don't really expect and what we don't want to believe is happening anyway will happen. I am the executioner and all those who are calming down hopefully, all the money that will be realized by both the creditors and by the state as sometimes in some cases as a believer I hope they will fill the kitchens with our ministers or vice presidents and there will be money for a full fridge in our ministries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67720	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67721	Thank you, Madam Vice President, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I do, and I am convinced of that, because that is what the law on the whole and the bill on the bill in general and some of its new ones testifies to all the troubles that we have and all the inconceivables that have arisen in the sale of real estate where neither the believers nor the debtors were satisfied. the executives or the executives that this bill will be resolved. This is indeed a very, very high-quality bill. In fact, if we go and everyone who knows more about this is in one nearer or further history that the intention of real estate as a means of execution in relation to things has always been far more difficult than money. So on the money that Finna is carrying out, it's so effective that we've had problems because of it, and sometimes she's blocked the accounts, not sometimes, but in one period and quite often, and when she shouldn't and shouldn't have. So then and in the meantime, we changed the law so that it could be distinguished exactly when it could be done, in which accounts and where it wasn't. So now we're here on a proposal for a law on the implementation of real estate and movables. What happened in the past, in a little further history? If it were a shame, something seemed to me that a colleague who had said before, that people in smaller places simply didn't want to buy these things in public auctions with oral public auctions. It was somehow considered immoral to buy things from such individuals. They have always caused some pity for these people to prey on television, to have children without the only entertainment, and it was absolutely unacceptable for people from a moral point of view. On the other hand, we today, and real estate has often been so rarely sold, but what has been happening lately and what has been the answer to this situation that we have been lately when such more moral visions are not one of the individuals, none of the groups of individual social categories in society, not to look back but to just sniff out where the trouble is human and to get richer on it. And what happened to one responsible authority to prevent that kind of thing, and that's one decisive answer. On the one hand, to be a legal state, to protect the believer but also to have one social moment towards the perpetrator and not to allow all those abuses that especially over the sale of the performance on the real estate either. The paradox is that the properties were sold almost for the bagatel, that the third party had become rich, that the believer was not fully calmed, and that the debtor was also still in debt and was left without its highest value. These are paradoxes, and the government responded well through the Resoring Ministry by proposing this bill. Let's see further what I said in one replica of the Act of Doom, and that's what I'm left with and that's what needs to be done, so to put in a moratorium bar and that it can't be done in these moments of crisis over the apartment of a family who have underage children. Now we'll see what the banks did. That's what our media wrote about. Namely, banks which, or persons and those high-ranking persons in the management management management structures of certain banks, have formed special companies that had a special name for it by placing such loans, knowing in advance that such persons would be in trouble for a few years and that they would be at peace with that property. And what was going on? If these were the same people through our system that made it possible to buy the property of these people very cheaply, so those same people who placed the loan to them later, these apartments and other properties became private property of high-ranking bank employees, I say what our press wrote about. Therefore, the justice of the request and the current moment of those who were irresponsible in such one conduct must bear certain consequences. We can't even talk about some big economic turn right now. This is one issue that will be resolved at European level, even in these upcoming elections, but what we can and what we are obliged to do and what we must do as a social democratic government with our coalition, which is precisely to show that they bear solidarity responsibility both for their own actions and risks. It often shifts responsibility to citizens for biting more than they could chew. There's that truth, too. But where is the bank's responsibility? We often all here say that profit is private and their responsibility has been socialised, which is absolutely unacceptable, and this right here is not because of any punishment, but that fundamental justice requires that in this sense and in this way reacts. So it's the ones who are connected to them that profited from it. But they're not the only ones. We also have other groups that participate in a direct or indirect way that participated in the business or who knew of such data to organize themselves to wait until the value of the property dropped so much and then bought. Of course, there were also mob groups that should not have therefore been an ordinary interested buyer who would gladly buy that property at a decent price very quickly the market price should not have bought it. In certain cities it is evident and it is known to our law enforcement bodies only to wait for the results to be eaten where they have achieved. So by staying on one principle that the believers are satisfied with their claims, that the perpetrator in no way pays more than is due and what is most important to us, that the third is not profiting from this relationship. And therefore finding a way for the state to participate and to use a well equipped and capable in a financial sense in a professional sense, in human resources, but also in equipment that can make it possible for our agency to do and do it in a centralised way which is certainly in this way of opportunity. According to his colleague Grubisic, he will be able to play it. Well, of course, there may be no law that can't be played, but what we start to need to create, remove all those possibilities and not make it easier for those who want to play the law. And that's why in this way the things placed where such a single sale will be centralized, where everyone will get their cap in the most honest way, will come to the sale of such properties and at a realistic price that will satisfy largely the creditors, but also the debtors themselves, and remove those speculators I repeat that they have earned in the most difficult human trouble.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67722	Replica Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67723	Thank you very much. My colleague Antičević, you spoke of a moral relationship to the completed real estate and that it was once embarrassing for most of them to buy such properties, but that groups appear now and you're right. Individuals and groups who unscrupulously prey on such situations also appear. This morning, you weren't able to hear it, I said this morning that 3 billion euros was placed through the lender in Croatia, that most of these loans were not returned because of high interest and real estate, that most of them were defenders and that most of them became property owners, agents who offered such loans. And that's exactly what's been on the state's attorney's office for years, but there's been no reaction. Thus, some individuals are certainly lurking in such situations and not just lurking and creating such situations. The creators of such situations await when they will come true and perform. But there are always different ones. And I still believe that most of them, that they have a moral indignity towards such a phenomenon. But one example I'll just say, one psychology in high school in Zagreb was a test of honesty for third-graders and the question was, would you deny the tax if you were 100% guaranteed that no one would haunt you and that no one would ever find out one was just the only boy who answered not to in that case, she mocked him in front of the whole class and said she saw how he was publicly lying. She took away his dream rights, his right to the ideal, unlike some... who say that they would steal if no one knew and that they weren't ashamed of it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67724	Reply to the replica Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67725	And what else a colleague but also agrees with your replica, and especially to point out that we cannot only appeal to one's consciousness but as legislators, we have to recognize certain behaviours as immoral and remove them from the legislation. Thus, something that used to be common cannot be anything in our legal order that is contrary to morality, morality, social morality. Therefore, these are important questions that you have now spoken of and I have discussed before. They are not moral questions whether marriage will be between heterosexuals or whether there will be other communities of homosexual nature. These are the moral issues of our society, these are pillars and these are private things and this is a common matter for all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67726	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67727	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here's colleague Anticevic, I'll agree with you, with your suggestion that you really shouldn't carry out an assignment on an apartment or property that is a family with underage children. Today, when we have 300 thousand citizens in the blockade, I believe that this would contribute to another benefit, and this is the most intelligent policy in the Republic of Croatia when the poor who is blocked by the crisis, indifference, bankruptcy, negligentness and others would probably be protected by such a proposal that you have protected those who have under-age children but probably encourage them to have a newborn so that their property, their apartment or basic space for life will not be completed. That I would agree with you, perhaps it would help both the Croatian nation and the population.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67728	Reply to the replica Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67729	Well, thank you, colleague and... I think it would be fair to see it really with banks and those who still enjoy holding on to a number of apartments that have been taken away, of course because the loans are not paid that they still don't pay taxes and in one thing to do a little reconnaissance, seriously consider it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I think there would be a single pleasure in general and we would get rid of many of the severe traumas that our citizens are involved in. I repeat the example of Italy, I repeat the example of Spain that did so. The women of Italy, the widows, who were fortunately not widows, although it was also an accident, that their husbands were killed in the war, but because they committed suicide as people who were out of work, left the credits and women of Italy, widows, they launched this one initiative, regardless of what authority and what structure in Italy it was now carried out in action, and that is how much the resolution of this difficult situation of people who were not only in Croatia but across Europe found themselves in an equal and unembarkable situation and at least their own fault.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67730	On behalf of the HDZ Club, five minutes of colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67731	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues, so it is not good to glolify any law, it is not good to say that something terrible will change one law. Honestly, I would like to discuss this law after we adopt the Fiscal Responsibility Act. I think then the story would be a little different because if we could even discuss this law, then there's a few key data missing. First, as far as Croatia is concerned about real estate, let's let that banking part go, banks do it in their own way, we talk about civil disputes. So let's let the banks go. Put them in a special basket. And the second question is how many of these properties were sold in the first round, as much as in the second, as in the third. And if we had that information believe that our debate in order to protect our fellow citizens would go in a completely different direction and not be politically colored at all. So that's something that's missing. And the Fiscal Responsibility Act, if we stick to it, is exactly what they're going to ask those who are proposing the law to see what's going on with that law. The second thing is, we keep forgetting that the boom of some of the countries of the economy that we loved and we compare that they often imposed on us actually created the financial and construction industry and also the big, biggest economic crisis in history has just caused two of us to say the brand. And therefore, when we talk about this Law on Real estate sales and the Executive Law, it is not negligible at all why the implementation took place, which is why the citizens over whom the exercise was carried out in such a situation. Therefore, we cannot talk about the law, that our fellow citizens will lose something tomorrow and ignore the fact that we are in, that we are already six years in recession, that we have so many hundreds of thousands of unemployed, that at some point the Croats were not available, and these were loans, they were suddenly offered as the easiest goods available. And that's one of the reasons why many of our fellow citizens will unfortunately find themselves at work. The second thing, the rest is doubtful, the minister said this morning that a real estate assessment would be carried out in FINA, the deputy minister said no, FINA would do something else. The key to this performance is how realistic the real estate assessment is. Because there are not many people in Croatia who have money and who will appear in such markets or those who dare to show themselves publicly. So very soon they'll get in touch with each other, so you can talk as much as you want to publish this or that, so it's crucial how realistic the real estate assessment is, and that's why it was crucial to know how much real estate in Croatia, say, in the last 4-5 years, sold in the first, as much in the second, as in the third round. The third round was practically, I don't know if there was a 50% value of real estate, maybe less. It used to be just to cover what the debtor owed. So, that's all the data that's just missing because when someone tells me that the disaster was in the garter because it's been done a lot, and I know what the situation was about here, so nobody can tell me and nobody can sell it to me, and so I asked you what the situation with the OIB is like right now in the garter because it means if we can't connect the real estate with the owner, and the OIB just got carried out for it. One of the big problems and the delay in investment in the Republic of Croatia is the grantovnica because you can't get ownership, you can't get ownership data. So a series of open questions. And what we're going to declare is this law, unfortunately we're not going to solve any problems, but also if I swear that we're a social state, then we have to think very hard about why this has taken place. Because I repeat, many of our fellow citizens have unfortunately found themselves on the sidelines of society not by their own free will but by the acquisition of circumstances. First, they were offered something that could come cheaply to what they couldn't get before, which is loans, and then at the same time they were offered to buy real estate, and then unfortunately they ran out of work or entered some other transactions. And unfortunately, what guarantees them some decent life, to them and their children, will be left without it. So let's not glorify anything, let's not say that with this law we'll solve something, let's look at what we have in Croatia and finally say the custom is primarily in small areas, and it's a shame to go and buy something that is sold as an execution in court. It is simply instilled in the Croatian people and will change there in time, it will simply change, especially in smaller environments, and we simply have to count on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67732	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67733	My colleague Shuker, I was offered an actual and current thing in this replica, namely, I'm selling the house these days, so I went in as you say to the garter and cadastre buyer to offer a clear copy of the plan, etc., and the house that was made in '83. With a building permit there's no drawing on the plan. It's only until '69. They're drawn, so there's an old house that doesn't fit the gauges of this new house at all. That's it, I'm just saying as a contribution to your debate that you're talking about so what's going to happen and what can happen in the case and now there's going to be an end to that little house that was before, not this big one. I don't know what it's going to go to, I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67734	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67735	Yeah, buddy Grubishic, you know what? Now I'm extremely sorry that the moment we started the big OIB project, we didn't publicly announce what we found in certain ministries. We haven't published anything out of our collegiation with our colleagues. I said one piece of information about the garter. So, the moment the project of introducing the OIB into the grantovnica began, so as a unique identification sign, we served as reference data JMBG because it was the only one that virtually all had. Only 5% of real estate owners in the Republic of Croatia had their identification through JMBG at the time. And until that's resolved, unfortunately, the situation will be as it is. Now, if you don't have within your own house solved the practical record of what anyone has and who owns what and what changes they make, you can make whatever law you want. It's just what you're about to lean on, of course some of them say it doesn't matter, so they didn't work on the garter, they didn't work on anything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67736	Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković-Kunšt's closing statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67737	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. This is the first reading, and of course until the second reading we will consider all the suggestions given in the debate. I'm just going to repeat what I said about moratorium, or what's been seen in the procedures of the exercise, determined to say wealth or manipulation in the executive procedures. The key where these events take place is the long-term process, and they are based on interest and cost. So any long-term performance suits those who want to manipulate, so it also applies to the moratorium. We consider the proposal enough for six months. We wouldn't extend it, we'd like to send a message called the payment culture, we'd like to interest the debtors in getting them out of a debt position as soon as possible, which is in any case unfavourable. One of the circumstances in this regard is the quality sale of property by debtors. Whether and what preceded the situation that persons in these circumstances are in debt slavery, banks, placing risk credits etc., it is very well known to us. But we can analyze it and we can act. The area of action is very narrowed down. It comes down to or the possibility of agreement with banks so that they agree to certain circumstances delay, etc. Or the possibility of taking over the debt on behalf of the debtors by the state. The state of excessive deficit, this second option absolutely does not allow, and for this first one let us not appeal to the morality of banks or to the morality of anyone who places capital on the market. The capital is a commodity, it has its price, it has its own terms of payment, and it's a very cruel system where some story of morality or social life just won't go away. If the bank has excessively transferred its assets to the debtor, then the question, therefore, is a risk transfer, then it is a matter of a specific subject if we can talk about the procedure in relation to the Swiss loans, and in that context it will be settled. If we talk about placing a loan on defenders, of course there is also a criminal responsibility for exploiting the necessity, ignorance, difficult property and others who have concluded the interest agreements if they have concluded them, and I believe that in the process it will be determined yes or no. We talked about Italy and Spain. Let us not encourage the illusion that someone else will take over the debt, let us not continue to spin around so that debt collection can be avoided. Neither Italy nor Spain have made a magical solution. They reached an agreement on the state's claims. Therefore, only the State can dispose of its claim so as to postpone or give it up, etc. And if it's about the claims of others, let's say, banks, then it's a question of negotiating how to get to a solution with banks and come to an agreement. If, compared to previous laws, we have achieved some shifts, then I believe we can do something in this section, so deal with the banks. But let's not have the illusion that banks won't charge each delay through interest. They will, of course. The interest of the debtor should be to settle his debt as quickly and as quickly as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67738	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67739	Madam Deputy Minister, I think I was clear enough when I was talking about social security. I moved the banks aside, and I said that the banking process offers a wider social process than that many companies have failed because they can't repay loans, they couldn't sell apartments because the real estate market is saturated. So I put it aside, because don't worry. Don't be afraid for the banks, they'll be fine. I was talking about civil litigation where it comes as a consequence of real estate. That's what I'm talking about. And I know exactly when I said what information I was looking for. I don't need to ask you for information about how much you've done for the needs of banks, but about civil litigation, about how much property was sold to each other, so you'll actually see how much traffic there was and so you'll see the negatives that were going on. And what banks do, banks will protect themselves. And also at a given moment if she's a smart bank, she'll be careful not to hurt a client. So that's one part of the story. At the end of the amendments to the laws proposed by the Ministry of Finance a month and a half ago, two days ago in a certain way, it is trying to solve the problem. So, I've been talking about civil litigation, and that's why I said the reason, it's very important why there's been an execution. And then when we figure it out, then we're not just going to put all the eggs in the same basket because I can break them all, and unfortunately this law just points to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67740	Replica reply, Sandra Artuković Kunšt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67741	No, I disagree with you. This law right now solves those anomalies and those problems we've seen.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67742	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67743	Proposal for a Law implementing real estate and movable sales in the executive procedure, first reading, P.Z. No. 602. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the proposal for a law on the implementation of real estate and movable sales in the executive procedure is adopted. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law. I'd like to make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 83 votes in favour, 15 votes against and four abstentions have reached the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67744	It's next - Proposal for a law on expropriation and determination of compensation, first reading, P.Z. No. 598. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. Introducing the law, the proposal will be explained by Deputy Justice Minister Ms Sandra Artuković-Kunšt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67745	Thank you very much. So, after the exercise of expropriation also a very interesting and interesting topic. Therefore, the State Authority is forced to regulate real-legal relations with holders of ownership rights in those situations where individual ownership rights become an obstacle to the achievement of common interests. The exception to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia of the right of ownership can be exceptional, therefore only if the interest of the Republic of Croatia has been established and, in addition to the remuneration of the market price paid by the beneficiary of the exemption is, and if all the conditions laid down by the rules governing the procedure of exemption are met. I will, of course, mention here that not only under the Constitution but also in accordance with the European Convention on the Protection of Fundamental Rights of Private Property is a fundamental human right. The exception may exist, but the way it can be realized should be very clear and precise. One of them is the Act of Exclusion. And we added here to determine the fee, because we think that monetary equivalent in expropriation is actually the key to justice. Execution shall only be carried out when property-legal property relations cannot be regulated on the basis of an adequate real-law facility without State intervention. What we have witnessed so far and what we would like to change by this law is to reach out to the Institute of Exclusion although not all roads are really exhausted, that is, all possibilities for a truly-legal settlement of a particular area. So we would put in this bill a certain amount of activity alone, a larger amount of activity on the user himself. Therefore, the proposed law primarily encourages the resolution of property-legal relations between interested parties in real estate located in the area of the operation of a powerful local authorisation and with as little public intervention as possible. The extradition procedure due to its nature, the entry into fundamental human right of ownership is a subordinate, exceptional procedure of public authorities only if there is a necessary and proportionate objective to be achieved. It is precisely because of the impact on the fundamental rights of ownership of transactions and expropriation procedures that should be transparent and should be notified to all parties in a specific extradition procedure, but not only by them but also by interested parties and the public in general. The proposal for a new Law on the granting and fixing of compensation results from the need for the urgent launch of the investment cycle in the Republic of Croatia as the main driver of growth and development of the Croatian economy and the creation of conditions for increasing investment and improving conditions for managing good for the Republic of Croatia. The extradition procedure is one of the most complex administrative procedures in which the public interest is conflicted with the private interest. The public interest is seen in the fact that private-owned properties need to be built or works in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, which is why public interest is weighed on the private-owned property to the extent that private-owned real estate should be managed. Due to the consequences of the extradition procedure for property owners, i.e. the loss or restriction of his right of ownership and the similar administrative procedure should be carried out with respect to the highest procedural standards. In order to facilitate the submission of proposals for the determination of the interest of the Republic of Croatia, this is a prerequisite for building buildings, i.e. the implementation of works, the content of the proposal is specified. That wasn't the case until now. It shall also specify the documents or evidence to be attached to the proposal, thereby avoiding objections to the long-term nature of the procedure as well as concerns the obligations of the applicant. In particular, the procedure under the proposed extradition proposal and the preconditions for such a proposal to be submitted in general, as well as the content of the claim for the provision of evidence of the state and value of the property and of the extradition proposals and of the documents annexed thereto shall be laid down. As a newspaper, the content of evidence is detailed that the user of the expropriation had previously tried to resolve contractual property-legal relations with the property owner. That's what I said earlier, so stressing the character of the Institute of Exclusion as exceptions after all other attempts. And the activity to try here is explicitly placed on the user's authority. The paper is also a regulation of the deadline by which the beneficiary of the exemption can submit an expropriation proposal, which encourages participants in the process of resolving property-legislative relations by agreement in order to bring as little as possible State intervention in the possession of the enforcement procedure. For the sake of transparency of the authorisation and of the knowledge of the property owners on which the enforcement procedure is proposed with all relevant data, it is prescribed that the public-legislative authority shall publish on the website a proposal for extradition together with information on all property covered by the rightful location permit, that is to say, any property over which the request is to be made, and property data for which property-legal relations have already been settled and under which compensation and under what conditions. It is also intended to keep the registers of outsourced real estates in the same way. So, these announcements, we believe that in addition to transparency, we will introduce a certain balance in these procedures. In view of the different arrangements for the entry into possession of the authorised property prior to the power of the delegation solution, and this has been governed by specific regulations, it has been approached by the single arrangement of this institute in such a way that in all cases it is decided by the competent public-legislative authority. The government has decided so far, and in the case of regulated special laws, the competent public-law authority. With a proposal to simplify the conduct in all procedures of extradition, the Government of the Republic of Croatia draws a conclusion which will oblige the central authorities of the state administration to make the amendments and amendments to the law in the fields of law in order to comply with the provisions of this law in a timely manner. It is prescribed that in the event that the owner refuses to receive the compensation granted to him for the excommunicated real estate, the beneficiary shall pay the compulsory amount of compensation to the special account of the public-legal body carrying out the extradition procedure and, as from the date of maintenance of the oral hearing, the interest shall cease to flow. We've talked about this before, but this is a solution that we consider to bridge problems related to the deduction of the receipt of the determined cash compensation and the flow of interest. The constitutional principle that ownership can be deducted, i.e. limited only when prescribed by law and with a market value compensation, is mostly expressed in the principle of determining the fee to be paid by giving the property owner the form and height of the property he/she is entitled to provide the same living conditions and conditions of use of the property as he/she had before. Following this, with a proposal for the authorisation of the user of the expropriation, information should be provided on the properties which he has and which he offers on behalf of the property transfer fee. So we're not just going to focus on cash compensation, we're going to focus on substituting real estate. In the absence of such real estate, if not offered or offered by the beneficiary and not accepted by the owner, the fee shall be determined in cash at the level of the market value of the real estate to be managed. In order to ensure a uniform methodology for the determination of the value of the property in all cases in the extradition procedures and throughout the Republic of Croatia in this proposal for legislation, it is prescribed that the value of the property is determined according to the methodology laid down in the regulation adopted by the Ministry of Construction. So to clarify what has already appeared as a question, the value of real estate will not be determined by anyone else to the witches. But what matters and what we lack in procedures is a proper methodology. Because we have now had the situation and the circumstance that the work of the witches has not been based on what methodology to reexamine. The Ministry of Construction shall be responsible and which regulation on real estate assessment will propose, or which appropriate parameters will be set up by the relevant provisions so that quality or confidential dispute can be implemented if someone with such an assessment is unsatisfactory. The problem in practice also raised the question of fixing real estate fees which are considered to be subject to special regulations. So these are real estates where a foreign person has ceased ownership rights or when, for example, there is an expansion of the maritime goods limit. We had a situation that in such predominant powers we had no clear jurisdiction between administrative and regular courts, and what is a fact, an authorized person or person who is considered to have been granted an exemption is certainly entitled to an adequate fee. This law defines this procedure as well as the procedure of regular or classical expropriation and determines the parameters for such owners to receive the appropriate compensation or for such a legal situation to be clearly demarcated. A special newspaper is the regulation that the procedure for the expropriation in cases where the expropriation is carried out for the construction of buildings or the introduction of works for which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has decided to declare a strategic project of the Republic of Croatia, that such procedures are carried out by the central state authority responsible for the affairs of the judiciary, which seeks to speed up these extradition procedures as well as procedures of special interest for the Republic of Croatia. As I was saying at the outset, it is a fundamental human right, a fundamental human right and deserves certainly judicial control of every decision, so it is also in the extradition procedures and in these strategic natures it is possible to conduct an administrative dispute, or through a court to control the legality of the decision. Therefore, the fundamental objectives of this law are to strengthen the protection of the interests of real estate owners through the implementation of the administrative procedure with the highest standards of procedures, to ensure transparency with public publication on the website of the public legal authority of all those who are in the procedure and the area to be taken out, the register of authorised real estate with all the information that was relevant in the procedure of empowerment. A unique methodology to determine the value of real estate. This is the right to assess real estate, to encourage an agreement on the settlement of property relations with the highlighted activity of the beneficiaries of the expropriation as the most interested person, to further speed up the procedures related to strategic projects of the Republic of Croatia, to regulate the procedure for fixing the compensation for real estate that is considered to be subject to special regulations and to the fact that persons whose ownership has also been affected, that they are adequately compensated and a uniform arrangement of the entry into the property or possession of an authorised property prior to the power of power. These are the important points, and here we are now going to hear suggestions in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67746	Thank you. We have a report of a replica, dear colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67747	Well, the moment I applied for the replica, you didn't explain so much, however, that two key articles of this law are Article 11 and Article 48 and that's an expropriation fee and I think that's the biggest dispute. I would just like you to write here, among other things, that I think in Articles 48 and 49 and mention the Ministry of Civil Engineering, but you have one specific thing, and these are roadway corridors, or, say, railways. And you, I'll give you a concrete example. I don't think it would be there now because one court has given one explanation, the ministry of the other, is working specifically on the Zagreb-Vika Gorica-Sisak highway, this part here at the Rage station where there is a corridor and it is agricultural land, the building land will practically become at the time when this is made highway and left and right will question what will happen to that space. So in such critical projects, which is actually a market price, and I think it's crucial, and this is not a problem, if you're taking some country that's in the building zone, it's precisely known what the market value is, and it's not controversial, but I'm talking about these parts because ultimately these traffic routes are something that's of the greatest interest to the Republic of Croatia and most often just extortions happen for such things or, say, possibly some things for local self-government units. But I repeat, according to the interpretation of one Department of Civil Engineering and the Ministry of Justice, the transport corridor is agricultural land, according to other construction and therefore to the laymen as it fits, he will say it is building and whoever pays it will say it's agricultural. Therefore, this article 11 and 48 are ultimately the most controversial in this law and I would ask if you could explain it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67748	The reply corresponds to the respected deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković-Kunšt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67749	Thank you very much. It is precisely by observing these doubts in the practical interpretation or implementation of the extradition procedure as regards the assessment of the properties that are either agricultural or building land that were precisely one of the reasons why the construction ministry proposed a regulation on the process of establishing the value of the property. I repeat, it won't be worth an evaluation by someone third to the witches, but the methodology that you've shown will balance the practice in a unique way, so we no longer have these doubts that you've talked about and that no new long-term procedures are born that are actually unnecessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67750	I ask if the committee's rapporteurs will take the floor? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. First in the name of the clubs. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Party Club, the respected Branko Vuksic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67751	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished deputy minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We now had a detailed explanation of this law by Deputy Minister Mrs. Kunscht. I'll try, I hope, something to talk about the essence. What we have in front of us is this Law on Compensation of Compensation Should actually be a legal framework for legal proceedings. But now the question is, will this legal framework, the legal process, provide enough justice? In fact, often because I repeat myself here in the Parliament, we have good or solid laws, but we make fun of all the laws in practice. We simply don't respect the laws, and even here in the Parliament, we find ourselves not following the laws with our hands. It seems to have become a Croatian practice. Remember one quite certainly fascinating picture you all saw on the television screens of that Chinese highway and in the middle of the Chinese highway finished on one side and on the other side of the road there was a big house. That's the topic we're talking about today, the subject of expropriation and the sanctity of private property. In China, according to those media findings, very superficial information and very superficial knowledge unless we're interested in both the political situation and their system, most would say that in China they couldn't move away. This was a worldwide rarity like that if you remember in Japan when in three days, the road that was totally in an earthquake was torn down by such a rarity. So we're passing a law that's quite certain that what fellow Shucker said just before, is very important at which the price is managed by some real estate. The law in my first reading is a good framework for a good law. Now let's get some practice. Let's say they come to you and say that in your orchard or as in the orchard, say Mr. Lesar's in his pear town, where he bakes brandy, he'll pass the road. There's the interest of a private owner, the interest of the state, and those interests conflict. Those who have spoken to people who are working on exorcising various road routes well know what pains to talk about, say I on Cres Island know now the case of that bypass on the island of Cres very difficult to agree on the price of landowners. You know that the islanders are very sensitive to their country and they started working the roads around Cres on the one hand and on the other because the extradition procedure is very hard. But that's not the biggest problem. Remember the expropriation or replacement of land for various constructions in the city of Zagreb. You've read a thousand times that some of the tycoon powers or close authorities, or powerful by the gyrocalc in the bank or on some islands, are buying a furious land, and then you're thinking about what's going to buy that land in that schizo, there's nothing, and then you see in a year, there's two of them building roads, and then there's something else building after the road, and then there's an industrial zone opening up. Well, they had timely information. They didn't have timely information but they plotted the route of the house and then you see that the road instead of going like this, goes this way because it should, it's a crime that happens at the exorcism. We need to apologize for how to get to that crime. There is no saying, there is no gap in the law that the Croatian citizen will not find, not the average, we know well that people who live from their work who are not close to the stove are not close to the source of power, so I am talking about people who have power in their hands. It is precisely the biggest manipulations that occurred not only in Croatia, but also in the countries of Europe, in America were precisely about the conflict of public interest and private interest and always this public interest was a cover and justification for private interest. And what did people make money on? People mostly made money by achieving their economic goals and eventually getting out of the thick end of it by citizens who certainly have no power to influence what we are discussing today. The extradition procedure is, as it says here in the law of reasoning, one of the most complex administrative procedures in which, as I have already said, conflicts of public interest, interest in this case of the Republic of Croatia and private interest. But after we passed the Strategic Investments Act, the story is a little different. Now the Republic of Croatia's public interest is the interest of an investor, it means private interest. In this case, the Republic of Croatia should protect and the investor should mean one private interest and another private interest of the person whose property is managed. Will there be enough honesty, intelligence, and justice in that? That's a fundamental question. Any law we make, and I'm saying this is a good basis for good law, if we don't stick to honesty, justice, we didn't do anything. In a year or six months we will try to change the law because we will say that the law is guilty of not being implemented on the ground by what we are here, which we all swear all the time because I haven't heard any MPs who are behind this pay phone or when they get up from their place fighting for injustice, injustice or inequality. Therefore, we all have a mouth full of justice, but when it comes to condemning this injustice, we often keep silent. So, we won't get answers from either Deputy Minister, we won't get from the opposition, we won't get any answers from the MPs to the Kukuriku coalition, we'll get answers to those questions that I'm asking today will be a practice. Why am I being skeptical? Because of the practice so far, which has shown that the interests of our powers are far stronger than justice and far stronger than the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67752	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, a respected colleague, Marijan Skuric, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67753	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, respected deputy ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us the Law of Execution, and this is one of the essential laws, above all, which I would especially like to mention once again, in all that description and explanation given by the deputy minister. But I would mention that, indeed, given the need for the urgent launch of the investment cycle in the Republic of Croatia, the creation of a prerequisite for increasing investment for the Croatian economy and improving the conditions for managing goods of interest for the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary to adopt a new Law on the granting and fixing of compensation. I would also mention that this increase in investment is primarily from the level of local self-government, cities, municipalities and other investments that still start from the state level. And these investments that we have to and which are most instigated are the things that we are going to start using the European Union funds. And the basis of the use of the European Union funds is ownership. You must first of all have land on which you can start a certain investment and make a capital investment. Article 2 defines what we will be able to do with real estate. It is defined that it can firstly be defined for the purposes of expropriating its own work, producing works or building buildings, economic infrastructures, transport, electronic, communication, water-economic, energy, cemetery and other objects of municipal infrastructure, health, education, cultural and sports buildings, industrial, energy, transport and electronic communications facilities, buildings for the needs of Croatian justice, military and police and research, mining of mines and other goods. When everything can be defined here, I think we still have to think about another reading of what our problems are going to be. Because when... This law then maybe some other things, where we might be, are we in the interest of some kind of fire centres, sports complexes, are there any other things in our interest, like irrigation systems, canals, does that belong to this, is that well defined? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think we still need to discuss this a little bit more. There I would also mention what an institution of expropriation is, which is a system for which the state is forced to regulate ownership, really legal relations when individual property becomes an obstacle to the achievement of general, common interests. Of course the exception can be from... established non-implementability, right of ownership, only possible when it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A user of exorcism may be a natural or legal person, also domestic or foreign. The purpose of the exorcism is always to build a building, to perform works that should be indicated already in the very proposal for enforcement. I noted here in Article 2 that we may really need to see what investment funds are, above all, for us to use the European Union fund, to install them, that we can also launch this procedure. It's very important to us. The full ownership of the property becomes the property of the beneficiary of the asset and the previous owner is deprived of the right of ownership. In the case of incomplete equity, the ownership of the property remains the person under which the recovery procedure is carried out. This is primarily in practice in the construction of pipelines, pipelines, power lines, low voltage power grids, water lines and sewers. The Institute of Temporary Taking into possession of neighbouring land is not an expropriation because property is not changed to real estate. Also, the interest of the Republic of Croatia in the material conditions of expropriation can only be exercised when the decision to grant an exemption determines the compensation. The extradition procedure is an administrative procedure and is implemented by the public authorities by the application of the General Administrative Procedure Act. And what's most important to me is the procedures of execution are urgent procedures. Because that time-frame around the execution itself is very important for the conduct of the investment itself. I would now a little bit more still mention on behalf of the HNS Club the things that concern, here's maybe more from practice as mayor that we... the past mandates and the implementation of the expropriation or the very intention of conducting some kind of investment had major problems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe that we may be analysing the investment procedures so far, i.e. investment and expropriation when they were in the basic problems of land-legal relations that we are not much of, not only of Croatia but I am sure that sub-authorisations are carried out for a few dozen years and have not been resolved at the same time. That's where I'd like to mention a few problems that's coming up. First of all, this new law encourages investors and property owners to agree on a real estate transfer fee in order to minimise the state's intervention in the extradition process, i.e. we said it would be resolved as soon as possible. In my experience, the matter of agreement is practically impossible because it is always and difficult to define and cover the interests of investors, of course, to pay as little as possible, as well as the interests of the owner of land or of certain real estate, which is in the interest of selling it or giving it up or taking it out at as high cost as possible. And then there's your negotiations, those deals can take a while. What I would also like to point out is the problem is that the new law specifies the actions that investors are, as well as the administrative body that manages the procedure is obliged to take in the extradition process. There is an emphasis on the eyewitness and on the notification to the owners of the extradition procedure. This is good because until now the authorities have been in a way that the person to whom the court has been granted has just received an invitation, to obtain a solution, and yet the emphasis is given that an eyewitness must be made where all interested in the procedure is called and, of course, to inform the owner of the procedure itself. There are also a lot of these activities, and I would not repeat them, but let's say in Articles 15 and 16 would particularly highlight things that in the proposal to determine the interests of the Republic of Croatia, which must all be of... authority, indicated buildings and other things. I'm afraid the same time that these conditions are being made and listed which ones are being made here, when they're being fulfilled that it's going to be a very, very long time. I would like to mention here that the proposal to determine the interests of the Republic of Croatia must deliver the opinion of the municipal and city council, i.e. the County Assembly of the City of Zagreb. Of course, it is important that I say that these large investments and capital investments that require a particular facility or land, and if not owned by them, that the city or municipality is very interested, and then this must be implemented through the decision of the Municipal or City Council. But there's a sign of power and a powerful location permit and... the lab has been confirmed that it's in accordance with the rightful location permit. When we're looking at a powerful location permit, then I have to mention that we've also passed a new Law on Spatial Planning where he generally has a decision that the location permits are basically gone, except in some five special cases. One among other things when building large irrigation systems, airports, also large ports, while for other things all we need is a building permit. So you can get a building permit without having previously solved these property-legal relations, i.e. if a written agreement is made for all interested people to be built in that place. With this decision I think that even for some things to be built, what we mentioned at the beginning, and these are roads, these are... infrastructure, primarily roads, cemeteries and others where essentially this decision, means the law on spatial planning does not need a location permit, it is now defined that we should essentially start getting and extracting a location permit again. Is this in the spirit of the law and decisions of the Law on Spatial Planning and should also be checked. I would also refer to the law if it wanted to put an end to arbitration in such a way as to define a better assessment of the value of land or real estate. The law thus provides for a unique methodology for establishing the value of real estate throughout the country, and the Government will adopt a regulation laying down the way of assessment. There I would indeed be in that section, and it is defined in Article 31, 32, and related to the part I mentioned, that the price will be the biggest problem. Yes, it is now defined that, on the basis of authorised judicial experts, one framework will be defined how much of that amount, how much of that land it amounts to. At the same time as a court should not take this into account, it may, by its own decision, make a decision on the value of the land, or what is defined, which is good, that in the whole area, the Government will adopt a regulation establishing the way of the assessment. But, well, that has to be made again, and I'd like it to be done as soon as possible. Here, too, in Article 31, I would suggest that there is also the opinion of experts on the state and value of the property for which the art is proposed, not more than 30 days. We are going to have this deinstitutionalization of what I said was not very simple and it takes a long time for this process to come up with a maybe finality of the solution that we will have to do because of this short time, or a short 30-day period of time, a few estimates of the value of the property. I think it's worth looking at, it can be extended to 60 or 90 days, I think the value of real estate to have an up-to-date assessment doesn't change that much in those moments so that it can expand. What I would also like to point out, perhaps one doubt, Article 32, when it comes to the granting of a larger number of properties, more than 10, that in that part, the beneficiary of the exemption is obliged to publish a public ad published in the daily press. I'd still have one doubt about whether it's one particle or the owner of two, five, ten or fifty. I think it's completely unnecessary again, first of all, and above all, and it increases the costs of the ad itself and further extends the very procedure of that empowerment. In that part, I would also mention perhaps Article 20 where I found it truly unnecessary and should be deleted because the fees for the work of the body referred to in Article 17 of this Law, which are primarily the procedures concerning preparatory actions, which are the offices of the state administration, i.e. the competent office of the city of Lepoglava. It's in their jurisdiction, especially if it goes from JLS to cities paying offices something that's their office job and compensation costs. I don't think that should be this article 20. We agree that, as such, it is completely deleted. Here's some suggestions like that. We very much support this law. It is very necessary that, first of all, what we said at the beginning, namely the need for the investment cycle in Croatia to intensify to create new jobs, while also saying that we can use EU funds very usefully where the system and method of ownership is most important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67754	We'll hear two replicas of this exhibit now. First my colleague Branko Box, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67755	I thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Skvarić, you said first that we had enough time until the second reading to fix the law. You also said that the procedure for temporary taking into possession of the land is not an expropriation. I agree absolutely with you, but in Article 8(1), read what is written to you. In addition to the land needed for the accommodation of workers, materials, machines and others in order to build buildings or perform works of interest for the Republic of Croatia can be temporarily taken into possession. So it's not defined what kind of land. So it could be an olive grove, it could be a vineyard, I don't know can be permanent now for any other species, it could be a rough city before mentioned by colleagues Vuksic. But I think it means you have to specify exactly what kind of land can be temporarily taken and that would make me a certain improvement. Because like this, there's absolutely a misunderstanding that the type of land can be taken that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67756	So I can also agree with you...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67757	Wait, fellow Squirt. I have to give you my word. You can't. So, the replica is matched by counterpart Marijan Škvarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67758	I'm sorry. Thank you very much, Vice President. My dear colleague, I agree with you. First of all, we have plenty of time until the second reading. I hope that second reading won't be in six months or a year. We're going to need to speed up because we really need to pass that law anyway so we can move on to those investments. And we really need every part of the ambiguity if we have it to unequivocally define that the law is highly sustainable and enforceable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67759	The second line is a colleague of Ante Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67760	Here's an esteemed colleague you said the price is the most important element in expropriation and when you look at it this way without knowing what's going on on on the ground, that's how it is. However, here I have the situation of the Adriatic highway passing through an area that is agricultural. So, in the city's general urban plan, it's supposed to be agricultural, but that's where the houses are built, a complete settlement. And now comes an expert who assesses and pays for the price of agricultural land, for example EUR 20 and all countries there are sold for EUR 70 or EUR 100, or there is an illegal object that cannot be legalised. How are you gonna pay for it? At what price? These are things of life that have not been processed or which have not been taken into account well in this law, and you, as chief, know about these problems and then problems and local authorities and problems with privileges and opposition to privileges and unreal price. So I couldn't agree with you on this that the price is most important, because that price is important but it's fair and it often happens on the ground that it can't be fair because you in GUP, your spatial plan or the general urban plan of the city or the municipality have a situation that agricultural land that is fully inhabited and urbanized.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67761	And this replica is matched by colleague Marijan Škvarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67762	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We can agree that the price may be the most important or not, but the price always starts first. The experience of what we know when we negotiate then always raises the question of price and depends on whether these negotiations are quick or perhaps never. About the arrangements of the prices themselves yes, I have one experience perhaps you also have that one area, the land you want to buy where you will make one purifier you have unfortunately one specification of us in Croatia Zagorje where you have some 1000 square meters at least 50 owners, then these 45 sell you at one price you agree to, these other five do not want to sell it to you. Ask for ten times the price. And we really need to do a system as soon as possible so that from the state level what we have said is passed a regulation that determines the way in which the land is assessed, because then it is known how real this land is and that fast procedure will be taken at fair prices because it must not be depreciated nor by the owner of the land, nor by the investor that we can move to that investment as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67763	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the SDP club, a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67764	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the respected Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club supports the adoption of a proposal for a law on the granting and fixing of fees. And here I am using this opportunity by saying on behalf of the SDP club, I must congratulate first and foremost the rest of the ministry on this bill that we really see in the SDP club as primarily one anti-corruption law that corresponds to all the difficulties that colleagues have already talked about, which really exist in reality, which is that in different ways the owner is often not satisfied by the investor himself, and that he has profited from someone who has had information or certain abuses only from it. So, as the speakers so far, here I am particularly pointing out that this is also a good bill and in the first reading, and we will see what else we can do to make sure that he really answers these basic provisions that I have mentioned, which I have mentioned in the opening much more detailed and respected deputy minister. In fact, we are known in Croatia as the people in Europe who have the most real estate and we are poor. What does that mean? That our properties are dead capital. That this is the dead capital he wrote about a long time ago if we were remembering, we all read that booklet of Joseph Kozarca "Dead Capital" which he still said then were we really Croat people who we don't know working on and we don't like working on our own for ourselves but rather working abroad for others. Therefore, often in the current situation where both the economy and the citizens as property owners are present, the public and private interest will not often be in conflict, but those property owners for whom an interested investor will be found, whether the state is the local government or private investor. And we see often, especially now, that I'm going to point out, that right now trading, or information about where some infrastructure would go either private, whether state or local, has poored many, many have felt deceived, and some have become rich overnight. It wouldn't just be... and other laws because it seems to me that a former colleague does not refer to this bill, and this bill recognises such opportunities that and in the procedure of extradition this does not happen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Through the special obligation that the investor has the duty to publish and that such a consistent and spatial plan will be made public, so the information on all the properties on which certain buildings will be built. And what is the burden of the present moment? Not only the expropriation, the length of the procedure, the unfair compensation, the different behaviour of the witches, but above all the trouble in which the owners find it difficult to find the whole, i.e. to remain only in part. It's something that's kind of the most unfair thing to see and how to interpret that norm in the first place. In any case go in favor of the owners themselves because their property was attacked, they had to give it up by any kind of force, and in any case such one part of the property to them that remained is no longer suitable for anything. Whether that property will be used by the investor or not. As one of our legal experts has said about some of the currents that have been conducted on quite other topics, but comparing domestic and European legislation has said such a famous sentence which, if we have accepted it, we must consistently and implement it. He says domestic legislation should be seen as a matter of comfort, so how comfortable it is for Europe and not for our domestic law. Well then, in such a conflict between investors and owners of such a provision and the law itself, it should always be avoided from any subsequent interpretation and it should be specified that, in any case, the property owner himself should be favored and satisfied with his demand if he proves that the rest of the property is no longer suitable for him for use and service he has so far had. Another great injustice that arises and is known to all of us, which is the menace and attack of telecommunications companies. And even some state-owned companies who, without any shame or decency, entered private property by force, had no right but force, although they had legal and existing opportunities to do so, did not consider it to be the same, but precisely acting arrogantly, were arrogantly setting up the different infrastructures they needed by bringing owners into a difficult situation not only because of the injuries and dignity of the owner, but not the property itself, but the owner, because this crisis is, above all, the crisis of the escalator and the arrogance of capital and all as it arises towards those weaker ones. So in such cases, although the possessions of a small area lead to an entire series of negativitys that have not been properly valorized by witches, the owners of large areas have left exactly without their valuable properties and without adequate satisfaction. What we certainly welcome is a unique methodology for establishing the value of real estate. This is something we have not had so far, i.e. there have been a lot of disputes about it and this obligation by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate how the value of the property is assessed, how the data is collected, how they are evaluated, and that the minister will be in charge of the construction and spatial planning and will adopt a regulation. So that's one step forward in determining the predictability of such a price, and it's not just about witches. What is also certainly commendable, and this is for all these transparent obligations and for the content of the establishment of public interest, therefore it is already known what must be contributed to establish public interest. In this way a message is sent to the owners themselves, but the investor also knows who wants to invest, who has good intentions knows what it takes to satisfy that requirement and that its interest would become a public common interest. Because we know what sensitive things are, the inviolability of ownership, but as constitutional categories. But the constitutional category is that the property is binding. So we didn't argue about it. Let us still dispute and still see many here as good solutions, that it is transparently found that this market fee is being determined but still open issues remain and that any dilemma about it can be eliminated because there can be no worse injustices about taking something away, extracting it as agricultural and less valuable land and serving for construction. It can't be! And many have been used not in exorcism but in the use of favourable information where you will be passing some routes, where certain infrastructures will be purchased for a bagatel land and people have been happy to buy it because they felt that the absolutely unattractive thread was in any function of them only later when they saw, when their customers sold their land a few dozen times more expensive, they saw that they had been deceived and they were deceived, and behind that, I will again prevent this transparency from happening in such procedures. However, it is something that screams at corruption and, in my view, despite the fact that the sale was opened so precisely by the availability of such property and by misleading such persons, the owner should certainly take account of it but it is not the subject of this law. The object and what we can do is to create such laws where such attempts and practices so far will be contained and the attempt of such and similar behaviours will be absolutely impossible or reduced to the exception rather than to the rule as it has often been. What is also valuable in this process is that, on the basis of these transparent conditions, the conditions allow the owner but also only the investor to settle the dispute peacefully and to avoid such a procedure as proposed in the law are now of an urgent nature. It is also very good that so far it has not been possible to give the owner any other substitute property available to the investor, it has been said that it is the state of the units of local self-government which was then less the problem because it was mostly known what the unit has, which is owned by the units of local self-government but also here by private investors, it should also be done as a commitment and this bill does, of course, if it satisfies the owner himself. The owner should always be in a position of this kind of thing so he can choose not to be an investor himself. A special newspaper is the regulation that the procedure for the extradition as stated in the introductory letter of the Deputy Minister that when the delegation is carried out for the construction of buildings or works for which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has decided to declare a strategic project that such one is then carried out by the central authority of the State Administration in charge of the affairs of the judiciary. And there is a situation that may not have been known to the general public but is well known to those who deal with it, the powers, as well as to the administrative authorities, but also to the courts themselves now in establishing the limits of the maritime good, so it will also be necessary to carry out such procedures because it is practically expropriating and in today's situations we have found ourselves in some strange crazy situation that the courts have refused because they have not had the opportunity to determine in their judicial procedure such a fair remuneration of market value to the owner and on the other hand the administrative authorities have also been blocked because they felt that it was a matter of confiscation of ownership. Therefore, here is now a transparent, transparent situation which will be because it is in the process and this one, and I think it will soon come to us in the House of Law, so we will also deal with these limits, establishing the limits of maritime good, which is certainly good that this one set of laws already implements through other laws, we recognize some things that will come only on the agenda. Here I am finishing this exhibition by speaking the name of the club SDP, once again I draw attention to what other colleagues have drawn from the expropriation, regardless of whether it's agricultural or non-valued land, and that always expropriation is required in the rule of building infrastructure and not for any damages, although there may be such situations that there may not be such a discrepancy to be redeemed as a agricultural and to serve the investor as a building and to make changes to the land itself and to a much greater value, because in this way owners would feel played out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67765	Thank you. Now let's listen to the replicas. First prized colleague Kresimir Bubalo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67766	Thank you very much. counterpart Ingrid Anticevic mentioned in her presentation already at the beginning that in Croatia the properties are dead capital and that this is anti-corruption law. But we're also witnessing something else on the ground that's happening. You talked about the inviolability of private property but often we had the opportunity to see in the paths that were drawn that were deliberately requested to harm private property so that there was expropriation on certain routes about corridors and the width of the corridors that we were not talking about and also just before and about what was outside the corridor itself. So it's also important in article 4 that the purpose is defined by permission, but it's also important for the deadline, but it's also important for the route. The period shall mean, after the purpose defined in Article 4(4), the period of time as they are drawn with a pen and often happens to move and that private possessions are deliberately injured precisely for the purpose of that execution. Therefore, when it comes to not only a purpose such as Article 4 but also a time limit if something is ruled out to put into office, it is also necessary to define the law on the time limit.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67767	Second replica, respected colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Come on, look, I beg you kindly. Two of us sit here but one of us sees it. Look at your co-workers. It'll be simpler for everyone. Come on. Replication response. Let's get a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67768	This fellow you're saying needs deadlines, that it's private property, so I was talking about it, and I was saying that it was, that our properties are dead capital, and that people want to take away their property to make a good profit, so they got some kind of money and put their real estate into operation, that's at least by selling it if they weren't able in some other way. However, what this law foresees is that it removes such opportunities as far as possible, and this is precisely possible in that it is prescribed by the public law authority to publish on its website an expropriation proposal along with information on all real estate and those of neighbouring properties to prevent it. But I totally agree with you on that, it's not a secret, it's a lot of people have used it, and it's the most that's happened in local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67769	Second replica, colleague of Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67770	Thank you very much. Well, dear colleagues, you said it was inadmissible to buy the land as a farm so it could be built on it afterwards. I ask you for a comment, when it comes to land that is agricultural and all the surrounding land is agricultural, but it plans to do something about municipal infrastructure, for example. the cleaning device, so when it comes to buying that land, if it is, for example, about my city, the town of Vodice, then it's known that 10 times more expensive land that has a sign built than the one that's agricultural. How will he react in this case, and how will this new law be treated by an expert, how will he treat him, and how will he be redeemed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67771	The replica matches Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67772	Of course, you've given me too little information to give you a precise answer, but what I've generally said, so I'm continuing to respond to what I just did to my colleague. It's interesting to see the surrounding properties and what makes sense to me, I don't know what the surfaces are, what the impact on other properties is, but if the value of these properties is reduced, then I, in particular, pointed out several times, to plead and to go to the favorite, that it should be clearly stated in the law, there is no stuttering. Let it be made clear that all the properties that have lost their value so much, that you choose to execute yourself then complete expropriation, complete expropriation. Of course, if the owners agree to it, if it suits them because their property has therefore lost either its function or its value or already what I own according to my use, of course there will always be a need for an expert.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67773	On behalf of the HDSSB Club, dear colleague Boro Grubisic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67774	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. My colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, I did not purposely want a replica because I was up for discussion because I mentioned Josip Kozarac and his novel "Dead Capital". And she said, literally, that this novel mentions domestic values and real estate, Slavonic forests and everything else, the country, and that it's much more valuable than going out to work for others and some kind of petty wage, etc. This time it is a dead capital that will reportedly be brought back to life in the Republic of Croatia, so we will work in Croatia for others, as well as for a small wage as is usual today in trade chains or some other projects being carried out in the Republic of Croatia. The shy, very shy of colleagues who have debated so far, those who have given the replica is very shyly mentioned the Law on Strategic Investments in the Republic of Croatia, which is directly based on this law, so the Law on empowerment and determination of compensation. I don't know why we're so ashamed to talk about this Strategic Investments Act when we see that it is actually, that this law was actually directly written in the function of implementing that law of the one I said and in which we had very contradictory opinions when we discussed here in the Parliament some months ago. I'm afraid the Strategic Investments Act, along with this law, is going to experience this "shaking hills, being born a mouse". There are too many expectations from the Strategic Investments Act, because here it has been several months, and I don't quite see that so many investors, that they rushed and pushed into Croatia to invest those strategic investments over 100 million or kuna or euros, I don't know exactly, but I forgot about the law, but 100 million, I mean kuna. So then for the area of special state care 25, and for some other 50 million, there were three steps in these strategic investments. What particularly bothers me in this law is what my colleague Bubalo said in his replica. So, when we rule out the full owner of some domestic property, and in connection with some implementation of a strategic, strategic project that is of strategic importance for the Republic of Croatia, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has designated as strategic, there is nowhere to be found, I have tried several times to pass this whole material, there is no definition of when this strategic investment must be completed? Are we going to get into a situation where we're going to get out of our own natural person, a private person, and then we're going to get a semi-completed investment that's going to make that investor come out to someone else to sell it at a much higher price? And what we're going to do and how we're going to do, then, which legislation we're going to apply when in this law, I don't know what I'm seeing. I'll be denied by the Minister if I'm wrong. We were talking about the magistrate, about the roads, here's the Dalmatina, for example, in some areas over 40 euros a square meter is paid for the extradition. In Slavonia for the Danube-Sava or Sava-Dunav channel however you like Vukovar-Shamac, no one has ever received more than 10 euros for a square meter of land even though where Dalmatia is currently passing there is a place where even snakes cannot succeed, and the Danube-Sava channel goes along the edge of Srijem and the most fertile part and the most fertile country in Europe, except perhaps in Backo and Srijem. I must say that because it has been proven by the research of the former Institute of soil of the Republic of Croatia that there is the best and the best quality country in Bobota and some other villages in Europe. And now, he said Chris that they like to call him "Cviic" with two and so it seems to me that the most important Intelligence service is information. Who has the information, where will pass the route of the road, the pipeline, the pipeline, etc. He can make money. Very interesting forms of some county and other roads as well as national ones. The road one in Slavonski Brod where it was supposed to be a rotor can't be a rotor, so it was made differently, on that road, and suddenly the local powers of certain parties bought land before the construction of that road, it was a northern fast road in Slavonski Brod. Furthermore, let's look at who owns the land around the Peljesac peninsula where the Peljesac Bridge is coming along according to some plans, so we'll see who bought the land, obtained and expected that the road will pass there after we finish the Pelješki bridge or road Slavonski Brod-Vrpolje crossing 5C corridor near Tchaikovac and Andrijevac, the local power and party leader of a party here a large dish which is no longer in power bought from him by the state, even though it was not owned by that country 6 months before it passed or a year before the road started, because it had information where that road would go, where it was routed. Will such things happen now? There are no obstacles not to happen if someone has information in advance, so I mentioned Chris Cviić who said that the Intelligence service, or information earlier, was very important, in this particular matter. And once again, I ask the question is this law or I don't know later, regulated, so what did my colleague Bubalo ask and I thought before his question, the deadline for the end of the investment? It is said here that it will be made by the Ministry of Construction of a unique methodology, an amazing one, determining the value of real estate. And we have seen in replicas how very often agricultural land is later converted into another and determining the price of agricultural land, a problem with the GUP that is provided for agricultural land, and it is urbanized and it is happening and it is asking the question of what will happen to the assessment of these properties created by who is said in an illegal manner, but here is the legalisation under way and will be legalised or perhaps not some, so in this place where there will be some kind of object of so-called. Strategic interest in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, Article 2 states that an assessment of what is of interest to the Republic of Croatia will be determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so it is it that has the first information. I wouldn't even want anyone to think there might be abuse, but the state and our people, that's how it works most of the time, in a way that helps a party like Shegon, etc. and then there is no doubt that this provision that the Government of the Republic of Croatia declares this interest for some land in the Republic of Croatia will be the first to be informed of its own as well as of this case and a number of other cases, which I now have no time to talk about, and could list a lot of them, will not please anyone of his like party above all, a friend, a godfather, a relative, as it is said or a relative. It is good that in good faith this law was written, so he predicted an eyewitness on the spot because then he would be both the owner of the property and the one interested in that investment that will be on that land so that they would first try and make a personal deal, see how much it is worth and so on and then in some other procedure that goes then to the court ministry, etc., will determine the possible value of that property. Mrs. Ingrid Antičević Marinović knows very well and knows the island of Vir in which the representatives of the five hundred weekends from the village of Radovanjica went to the private owner of the pine forest by the sea to buy 90 square meters, 60 square meters long and a half wide for walking to the beach because they, 500 of them, have to go about a mile to their beach but there they wanted to buy 90 meters of beach. I don't know if it's an interest from the Republic of Croatia if 500 citizens want to get to their beach on the shortest route. But the private owner said to plate me with the ducats and the gold with the 90 squares I won't give you, in the end he pulled the axe on the representatives of those 500 weekends. Now, as the state of Croatia will intervene in such cases, whether it will withdraw the axe to the institutions of the Republic of Croatia, I do not know or need to declare it a real interest from the Republic of Croatia although it is not such a high price, it should not be as high as the strategic investment scale set for the Republic of Croatia. I wouldn't say that there will be a conflict here like someone here said of private and public interest. In fact, the public interest and interest of the Republic of Croatia in this syntax of the interest of the Republic of Croatia is a hidden interest so-called Great entrepreneurs or investors, it is not the interest of the Republic of Croatia, it does not build, mostly, but is the goal as Minister Vrdoljak said to attract foreign investment or domestic investment. So, the interest of the Republic of Croatia, in fact the interest of these great players has been translated into so-called the interest of the Republic of Croatia. And the private person who owns the property stays only on that side. Well, then I'd stick a finger like this, and I'd ask myself what that assessment and contract would look like. And therefore, if the interest of the Republic of Croatia is to conduct an investment and of course it will, in some way, come to a certain kind, that I will not say coercion unless they find common language in this eyewitness and agreement. It will be, exactly, unsatisfactory, but this is because we weren't even in favour of the Strategic Investments Act when it was voted here in Parliament, and since this law is obviously based, the continuation of this Strategic Investments Act I think the HDSB Club will remain restrained because those who have predicted these strategic investments. No, I would like to congratulate them if they succeed, even if this is the case with the implementation of the Strategic Investments Act and this Act, if Croatia flourishes in two years, three years, so by ransoming it, or as it says here by enforcing these private-owned properties. God forbid we find good solutions and make investments finally happen. But given the previous experience of this government and a very pervasive small number of investments, I'm afraid it will be as I said at the beginning, "the hills were shaking and the mouse was born." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67775	Now we move on to replicas. Kresimir Bubalo first picked up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67776	Thank you very much. When we talk about strategic investments in which the HDSSB spoke very clearly, it is important, not only the amount defined by this law, which is 20m euros, but who will control that it is truly acting in accordance with the law. And also just before I spoke in article 4, the purpose, but more importantly, the purpose of the land that has been awarded is the deadline. Rock. Here, in this legal solution, we need to define the deadline. What happens after 10 years if someone's got something on the track and someone's playing later, changed the course and the rest of the land and made an expropriation? Who's going to be responsible for that? Who will be punished for pulling pens somewhere else and changing a possible route? Who has the information and the pen and this Law is highly advantageous. And I'll tell you an example from practice. I had an important investment where they asked for 386 particles. And we came to 2, 3 particles that there was still a need to own it, but we had the owner who was recalibrating and the director came to me and told me the man didn't agree but asked for such and such a price for land. I told him to take a pen and go around it. To see how he later appeared at a much lower price, but we didn't agree to it. So it's the law, it's the path, but it's even more important that these deadlines be put into operation. Because it's going to happen on the ground that this law will apply and investment will not be realised in the next 10, 15 years or maybe never. Then who's going to answer for what someone has authorized individual owners at the site? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67777	The replica does not match Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67778	Thank you, colleagues from my party, of course, so now they're going to say a replica from a party colleague. But that's what you and I saw, so I did just before I went out for the pay phone and after my speech and debate with my colleague, Ingrid, is that nowhere in the law does it exactly say what you're getting up about and saying that there's no defined term for the end of the investment. Therefore, the law has not defined or mentioned sanctions anywhere unless the investment provided for in the land has been completed. There is no sanction procedure or can be seen in this legislative proposal. I haven't found him, maybe the Deputy Minister will be able to say something about it, but here I haven't found him.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67779	Another replica, the esteemed Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67780	Thank you very much. Comrade Grubisic, you spoke about the importance of deadlines for completing investments, but it is equally important that the value of investments is the main and only criterion for something to be declared a strategic investment. And what if a strategic investor announces an investment of more than 150 million kuna, the resulting exemption is granted by individuals, and then it is achieved after 3 or 4 or 5 years of investment or is achieved in the amount of 90 million kuna. What's going to happen in cases like that? The law did not foresee such a possibility at all. For example, only Zagreb Airport is given in a concession precisely for a certain value of investment, and a concession contract is concluded half the value of investments. So whoever was against the Strategic Investments Act is logically required to be against such a law because he, this law is based on a discriminatory law and this is a law on opting for a discriminatory law. And what is a strategic investment, who will define it, what is it about the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia, only 150 million kuna. Well, those of you you spoke of at the Vira 500 must have invested more than 150 million kuna, so they didn't become strategic investors. I can't even get my way. And which means investment, whether it's strategic, so it's not every investment, it can even lead to growth, but every growth doesn't have to lead to development. It is precisely the largest strategic understatement of investment that has slowed the development of the Croatian economy because it needs as little as possible, not as large as possible, because the economy and society are developing a larger number of smaller and certainly large ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67781	The replica matches Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67782	Yes, fellow Marić, if we are already sticking to those and if we speak in language, say the Minister of Transport, English, small and medium-sized enterprises, so small and medium-sized enterprises are right in the focus of European internal policy, economic and economic policy. There are 26 million small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in Europe, and it is an emphasis on hiring each of them, 26 million employees and solving unemployment in Europe. But about what you were saying at first, I would say that this variant B is the same scam, so in relation to variant A that me and Bubalo were talking about, it's actually a variant B, another option that could happen, and it's not regulated by law, because that strategic investment law is actually one discriminatory law, and really, as I've seen in the debate that this is a continuation of this law, the continuation of that favoring the discriminatory law, and we're against it then, we're going to be now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67783	And the last replica, the esteemed Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67784	Dear fellow Grubisic, you said that the road as you call it the Dalmatina, the highway, which is not her official name, but you say there's a piece of junk and a stoner there so it's paid at a great price, so it's true that there's a large part of the junk and the stoner, but those Dalmatians love that junk like their Slavonia or their country, a rich country in Slavonia, and they have that drill there that's as important as your biggest field. So here's why I have to, since I'm from Dalmatia, I have to do it for the ones I represent. And our country is very important to us, as is your fertile country to you, but I didn't get a good word for it, by the way, just so these Dalmatians don't tell us that we're not fighting for the interest of Dalmatia like you're fighting for Slavonia's interest. But something else, it is not good for the Croatian Parliament to go here in terms of the message, you say it is the interest of entrepreneurs, so why would it be the interest of the Republic of Croatia. That was a bad offer to the big investors. We invite, we call all the time, we ask these big investors to come, to invest here, it's not good for them to hear news from the Croatian Parliament now, so we don't want these big investors, why should we give them benefits. Well, the whole point is to try to give them benefits if they're going to make a fair investment. And this is whether they will resell it, so it is crucial to pay at a market price. We fear that it will not be paid at the market price when it is taken small because the key situation is to try to protect small ones from large ones, but we must protect large ones from small ones because and small ones sometimes know with their small surface to recalibrate some serious project. So we have to have understanding for both of us and for each other, and that's the point I also think of this power and the desire to pay fairly, to protect the little one, but we need to protect them and the big ones because they're often big in trouble, so the big projects are going well.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67785	And this replica corresponds to Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67786	Comrade Sanader, I'm not going to talk about the price of a square meter in some Longbabs or so on, we know about it already and I wouldn't want to be a provocator, if you didn't consider me a provocator in terms of it. However, this mentions a unique pricing methodology. Now, if in that unique methodology how nice is it said that price determination put a square meter and our Slavonic land and a square meter of that junk and stoner where there are no snakes either because it can't get up, there's nothing, then we'd see that there'd be some kind of market difference. But here in the last term or when Slavonica was made was also a difference in the price of a square metre topic, here I will not mention that village anymore, etc. And now you say maybe today with a highway square meter of land, so including the highway wouldn't be as much as paid when the highway was built. But, behold, let you defend yours, we defend yours. We are all Croatia together so there is no reason to mess with us like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67787	On behalf of the HDZ club, a respected colleague, Tomislav Klaric, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67788	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's a proposal for a law on expropriation and compensation. Here's to starting with just a little comment on why and by determining the fee. If we look at the history of all the laws that dealt with this topic from the Austrian-Hungarian, Kingdom of Yugoslavia, NDH, SFRY all said that it was an expropriation law and each one of them predicted in any social order since it was a forced confiscation of property and some kind of fair compensation. But the title is less important. What's good about this law that doesn't go according to emergency procedures is going to pass this debate. And I believe that many of what is said here and will be given through amendments in the meantime to argue that this law will be as high-quality as possible. So the purpose of the Law of Extortion primarily helps us to solve property-legal relations on land where we build some kind of strategic infrastructure. That was the primary goal and so far all the laws, including this one. Here Mr Grubisic mentioned and several speakers also spoke about the Strategic Investments Act and I will comment later on a few words about the law. Here, what I would particularly like to emphasise are the units of local self-government, and we have already talked about it when the original laws are passed, which are all based on this one and apply to the units of local self-government. So on that fundamental part of which everything further develops, because of them, spatial planning, urban planning, and everything that will be. So, all units of local self-government, and here we're talking about going into making this bill for investment, because of the accelerated launch of everything. My proposal, thinking and all the amendments that have referred to this, and I think now is finally the time to implement this law and through this law these are urban plans to regulate business zones in the area of units of local self-government, and I will also tell you a concrete reason and an example why I stress it. So local self-government units, with the consent of the county and ministries, have brought their own spatial plans, have brought in urban plans and simply do not have the opportunity to dispose of land and resolve property-legal relations except for the municipal infrastructure, for some roads and what they will do there but not for working plateaus on which some investor will come after their arrangement and settlement of property-legal relations. I don't know, a city in the Republic of Croatia that has finally solved land books. We know what our catastre is like. We know from experience what the procedures were when the last registered owner in a book like that was from nine hundred eighteenth or died in '76. And after that, no one is due to those children's allowances, so people did not sign up as owners. What is the procedure later to bring such a thing? It is these very bottoms that I can tell you in particular a number of judgments because such a single land under the law of the 1970s was expunged, as it is said or authorized. No time limit has been set for the one who showed up as some kind of heir to the charge. And in this case, we have a case on Hvar, and we have a case down at my place in Bakr, and we have a case on Krk where, by some estimate, some kind of court expert, practically the city becomes blocked. Right now, my case just last week has to be paid off 3 million and 600,000 kunas of land that was exploded in '79. A year. It's this law and that's what we need here in this House and the government to think about. A similar case is on Krk, it seems to me on Hvar and these things are what happens. The estimates are what they are, and this is exactly the methodology in this law that I think should be further elaborated and put on that finally hellish, forgive the expression, special interest within business zones, industrial business zones in the Republic of Croatia. We're just all hands tied, we can't get to land. We have to enroll some owners, solve their property-legal relations so that they can buy that land and put it into function. And here I'm talking about some kind of speed and strategic investment and speeding up some kind of law. I don't know why we're talking about speeding up the whole procedure, simplifying the procedure, in a way that determines why we're going to unite this process. So we have to make a decision on the exemption and a decision on compensation at the same time if we're talking about some kind of strategic investment just under this bill that's kind of a case here. What the practice so far has shown as a difficult circumstance through these IPA projects was the problem that neither the current law nor the proposed law that we now have in front of us on the expropriation contains provisions on the required length of the deposit period of the fee. I didn't see this, I don't know maybe I flew over to say that there was some sort of fee, that that money was deposited on some special account, and that a certain deadline of 4, 5, 6, 10 years, in which time some owner could appear, that this fee would be paid. This way, we have a situation where you deposit some kind of asset for some value of an estimated asset and that those assets are in some special account, and the owner if he shows up or doesn't show up. Again, I return to these difficulties in practice that we currently have which in that ideal part of ownership since our garter, cadastres, land books, property-legal relations in such a situation are what with those land that are within the surface of some future strategic investment or business zone where we have some co-owner in the ideal part. We even have a situation that such co-owners are ideally in one twenty or thirty of such land. The ideal part of this means that at any time he can say no, my 20th is here, here, here and there, and simply from his intention to block the realization of any project will not agree to compensation, but in the judicial way we have been slowing down for 5, 6, 10, 15 years and so one land remains out of function. And yet I repeat it is within the scope of some business zones. In Article 8, you have put in place a new variant where an investor can temporarily own land for the establishment of an auxiliary facility or for the organisation of a site which will return to the previous owner after the project is realised. I do not see here in this provision some precision in this article 8 because this bill says that the neighbouring land needed for the accommodation of workers, materials and others can be temporarily taken into possession. So if the owner doesn't think we can force him to give. Furthermore, it is said in the second paragraph that temporary land-owned takeover will be abolished as soon as the need for which it is determined ceases. In my opinion, such a decision is very, very casual, i.e. there is no deadline. Something is mentioned but not in this context and previous discussions. So there's no exact limit. You will rule out Peru, Janka, Mark some kind of particle to put on that particle some sort of object that will be in the function of realising a strategic project. Now, how long is this deadline going to take, is it a time limit for obtaining a useful permit for a project of some kind of strategic investment, is it a deadline for the object itself, or is it a deadline for how it stands in the law indefinitely so that it should be as long as it is? And it can be used for something else. The promoter considers the completion of works on the main building, which again is undefined, doubtful. Whose opinion is that the deadlines on the building are completed, etc.? As far as taking neighboring land is concerned, we believe that the promoter has not made that part the happiest. What if there is a vineyard on neighboring land, what if there is a culture that brings it some kind of greater value? And Article 52 provides for how this amount of compensation will be determined to be paid to that landowner. So it says that market value will be assessed before and market value after the end of that strategic investment, so it will be some sort of compensation or will be reduced by the difference involved. In my view, it's completely unspeakable, inaccurate, and I think that there's still another way to process it, to do it in more detail, and to sort of regulate it. As far as this part of the property and compensation is concerned. I repeat, we're all going to have a problem. The problem is that land books are unsettled, which is a fee and only a solution to the expropriation and depositing of compensation and payment of compensation and the procedure itself of determining the compensation in this you prescribed that some court expert who will jointly choose both sides. In court practice, when such things are solved, we have procedures that take a long, long time to do damage in this case, not the state because through strategic projects it was very decoded and the stone was determined and... and fruit, however, is always ruled on by the units of local self-government, which are determined by some price. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not to say that in the part where she donated land to local self-government units for some strategic projects through a contract, the Republic of Croatia put in place a price set by the Tax Administration based on some estimate of how much land was sold that year in the area of a particular unit of local self-government. So they didn't care if there was a pool house at the same time and some pasture at the time, they added it up and scraped it off. And then, in the contract with local self-government units, the Republic of Croatia determined that this was the price and that the value was handed over to local self-government units. In this case, as far as the Strategic Investments Act is concerned, I repeat there we have brought, there is one perilous law in this law, it is not a bad law in the sense of starting strategic investment of the amounts themselves, it is bad in that part of what we have already talked about local self-government units in that part of spatial planning. And again I return to business zones, to industrial zones, to all those areas that are already spatial plans of units of local self-government and adopted and adopted or whose obligation is prescribed by the adopted spatial plans. It's a strategic investment law that eliminates and I won't have time here anymore, but certainly in the proposal for a final law on that, we will give you amendments in writing. Especially should the maritime well-being be handled and this part of the possibility and its expansion and the part relating to the expropriation in its immediate vicinity. We've all burned ourselves so many times, and I think that through this law, in one quality way, things like that can be avoided. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67789	We're moving on to replicas. First of all, the respected Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67790	Thank you very much. My colleague Klaric, you have often spoken and mentioned the concept of strategic investment. It should indeed distinguish and distinguish strategic investment from any strategic investment, to distinguish between. We have strategic investments that are interestingly strategic for investors but are not... which are strategically interesting to the investor but are not of strategic importance to the state, and there are investments that are strategically important to the state but are not important to the investor, so the state has to engage and take incentive measures only where interests overlap, where interests are matched. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] If Emma M Augsburg is going to open a factory in Sibenik or Vodice, hire thousands of people, then the state to pay for the exemption, to give HEP free consent and connection, to create a free transfone station, to free gas, to be free of all contributions, communal all contributions, all this should be done to make such an investment come and the state will not, it will only benefit from that. But if someone is building a mall then it's a crime to rule out the owner to create a shopping centre because he carries such an investment strategically is not important to the Republic of Croatia because it only brings negatives and no benefits. The opening of shopping centres, prices are increasing, goods are becoming more and more quality, and employees are becoming less and less in the same sector. This is what the malls have given us, and now we need to adapt the whole law and engage the state in order to accommodate such investments as they only carry out, or one criterion, which is the value of the investment. It's devastating that it's the only criterion that determines that it's a strategic investment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67791	The replica matches Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67792	My colleague Maric, I was when the strategic investment law was being discussed very clearly. I don't think an investment of 150 million, 75, 20, 20 per cent is a strategic investment for the Republic of Croatia. It's an investment. What we were talking about, strategic investments for the Republic of Croatia are both gas pipelines and highways and highways and infrastructures, projects related to a wider area. What we're talking about is investment. Such a law as was proposed was adopted and what I was talking about today respects and the fact that such a law exists for that reason I also said what I said. So, the two of us fully agree, about what a strategic investment is, and I personally think that what this law prescribes is not all strategic investment. However, the law is so, we must respect it, respect it. This law inherits, or in one piece, that will please this law, and we must and as a position, it is my opinion that in this sense it will be as good as possible, but also that the units of local self-government, therefore, will allow those jobs to be more operationally done by some kind of project, even if it was some kind of mall or this kind of crazy situation that the state is about, and this shopping mall will visit some construction company, spend some material, and then, unfortunately, it will make very miserable wages for our citizens. But in this situation we live, and I think that all of us together, especially the one who proposes this law, had to make sure that this law was life and that it was applicable to all of us who would later use it in the field.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67793	Second replica, respected Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67794	Thank you very much. Well, you mentioned the maritime well-being. It is interesting to read in Article 59 that in the event of an extension of the maritime goods borders beyond the limits of a specified act by the competent authority, the payer of the compensation of the Republic of Croatia. I wonder what about the facilities built on the marine good and we in Dalmatia know that many of them were built on the embankment and the rash is by definition marine well-being. Of course, it was declared a maritime good and the Republic of Croatia has not yet paid compensation. I have not noticed that there is an item in the state budget, nor the intended funds for paying even these current problems, and especially not these new ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67795	The replica matches Tomislav Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67796	I agree with you. I didn't notice either, and I don't think that's gonna come except in a special case some strategic investor of a natural person who's going to have 20 million kunas of investment on the island or that 150 million kuna, and that's why I said that we're going to give a written statement about that part of this law as a club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67797	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The Honorable Vice President, Dom Milorad Batinic, has signed up, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67798	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Namely, I have a need to refer to a few articles. I think maybe I should correct them or bring them in line with certain laws that have recently been passed. In principle, I support the law. This is the continuation of the previous draft laws that have been, certain improvements have been introduced in the procedure itself, more detailed actions are prescribed and I will also little refer to these discussions that preceded the negative context that was given in this work. In fact, we're all aware of the fact that it's expropriation, that's the end of it. If it doesn't work out with the owner, when we're talking about buying real estate, it means the ultimate institute we reach out to when we don't have another way out. And in my personal opinion, I've had experience so far in my practice of having one advantage, this year I'm going to have to have another because this whole procedure that's been prescribed here I've been spending more than eight months and I'm not getting to the necessary land for infrastructure in the business zone. But I'd be on my way. As I was saying at the outset, I have no more significant objections than, I say certain suggestions, perhaps clean and nomotechnics and compliance with certain laws. So Article 7, paragraph 2, first, if the use of land on the basis of leases destroys the land culture so that it cannot be used in the present way, the owner may require full exemption. It is a logical sequence, however, the very word of the land culture. We have a Law on agricultural land that speaks of agricultural land types, perhaps I say, purely nomotechnically to work on and out of the existing law, whether it's highly valuable agricultural land, less valuable or as it's already categorized, or named in the Law on Agricultural Land, I say it's pure thinking. What I see in Article 7, paragraph 3, improvement, extended deadline. And right now, I'm saying so far there's been a month since the lease stopped. Just because we're aware of the fact that we have, there are certain properties where owners are across the country, globes, from America, Australia, Sweden, Norway, etc. And I think this is more than correct, in terms of both the obvious and the renewal of that request. As for the assumption of exorcism, I say very detailed is spoken. Article 9, "The construction of buildings or the execution of works should be in accordance with the rightful location permit". I would also suggest that he consults later on with the new Construction Act because according to the new Law on construction of a local permit there is no or not in that direction, I say quite a bit to complete, and that some other articles mentioned a local permit where the requirements are particularly listed, that the act allowing construction should be used. So, is it a major project or some other act because in some other way it can't be implemented? And what I would also suggest here, is it necessary to write in an article of the law to which. Namely, any building act cannot be adopted without valid spatial urban plans. I'm saying, your assessment is whether it's necessary to write the same thing. I say, the debate may show that certain discussed colleagues may not understand the subject, so whether it is necessary to sign up means in accordance with spatial planning documents and a document issued by a building act. Because if you don't have a building act, you can't even build a pitching lab. I'm saying, there's a lot of newspapers, a lot of improvements. In Chapter 2, determining the interest of the Republic of Croatia, of course we who are operating at local level among other things, of course there is to the greatest extent the interest of local self-government units. What I would like, Article 15, proposal to determine the interest of the Republic of Croatia, I would all support what is stated here. I'm saying, there may be a correction with a powerful location permit, meaning a building act. Also, by the logic of things, you can't get an act that approves construction unless it's consistent with the spatial planning document. Logic, I say. Should I write, that's a question? And the following, the designated owner of the other real-eligible, would call for an analogy of Article 48 or 49 where it is said: "The owner of the building does not have the right to compensation unless it is legalised". So it writes in paragraph 2 of the process of removing the building and now the term of the previous question, analoguely speaking, is the previous issue of settling property legal relations. I know that the intensities, among other things, are to move faster to settle property legal relations, but we won't have the authority. If it were a possible institute, then in the area of his entire unit, he would raise his city's issue of exposure to something, only to settle property legal relations where they're not arranged. We may be, I say, well-intentioned, that will certainly happen, but it certainly might not be bad for certain assumptions to be introduced that are necessarily respected. which by the nature of things and the law itself can be seen. It also mentions forests and forest land. I suggest, as is the case with the Law on Agricultural Land, that I think they are going, that in the procedure in the public debate, the amendments to the Law on Forests which are currently related to the Law on Strategic Investments, they may define this area in more detail. Col. Skvarić referred to Article 20, so if the local self-government unit initiates the extradition procedure, it says that we should co-finance, as JLS to the state budget, maybe explain, of course we are for not having to pay because we don't have much money, but I say, it's all a state budget in some way. But what I'm still, I don't have too much time, I'm saying maybe as a whole, I'm saying the law is okay, I can agree with that, but in the work that we've received in the materials of the consequences that will result in the adoption of the law, the whole process of empowerment prescribed by this concept in a way." I wouldn't agree with that. He is essentially aware that the exorcisms will have to be resolved by property-legislative relations. So he says "to encourage the resolution of property-legal relations on properties located in the area of operations" etc. That's what it stands for. However, how many of these investments will be, how many will be resolved, that's the question now? And what is certainly also commendable is the prescribing of a unique methodology for establishing the value of real estate. I believe that if we had this framework proposal for this act of methodology so that our debate would be much more consistent, we wouldn't go into the widest and things would be much clearer for us. As far as strategic investment is concerned, I would also suggest that I think that perhaps we all expected it knowing that the Law on Exclusion will not speed up the procedure, but this law with itself during it cannot even speed up the procedure. I repeat, the quickest procedure is direct if we can agree with the owner of the property, it will speed up the procedure in that part of what exactly is prescribed by the Office of State Administration and Central Authorities. What you'd also like to say is that I have an example, I wanted to launch an expropriation, I was waiting for this law. In the city center, I have land that was owned by the city during my first term of office in 2005, so it came back to the property return process, and then the bankruptcy of a company was recorded on that property, so I lost hope. However, it is difficult to calm them down, simply saying on two occasions, notes have changed. It was already the verdict and the return of the property proceedings that the city owns, now it's re-appealing the second procedure again. I was expecting maybe it's even an illusion that this law could prescribe it, but I'm asking for help in this case. I'm in favor of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67799	The replica of my colleague Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67800	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President Batinic from the last part of your presentation would have the impression that this law was written by you and what happened to you right in the center of town, so I'm afraid this law could be nicknamed "Lex Batinić" or something like this. It really came out of your statement that, in your case, it was practically a law written, not what colleagues and colleagues were talking about in today's debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67801	This replica corresponds to Vice President Batinić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67802	You obviously didn't listen to what I was saying. Not obviously, but definitely. I was just saying that I was expecting maybe, hoping because I had no way to solve it. The problem's been dragging on what I've been talking about since '97. So it was the first bankruptcy, and then it was the return of property, and then it was the judgment of the return of the city of Ivanac to those particles, and now it was the bankruptcy of the court again and again to the bankruptcy of the return of the property. I said, you misunderstood me maybe that you should bring some let it be called what's called lex I don't know what you can and on such things by some law, is it a law of expropriation that we're going to call it to put a point on and to get rid of. That was my thinking in that part. Of course why I used the debate myself just to let the deputy minister hear about the problems by not looking for anything and not asking to be called Lex Batinic, a colleague of Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67803	The closing word has a deputy justice minister, respected Sandra Artuković-Kunšt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67804	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's because we want to break the practice of discriminatory or guessing decisions and precisely because we want to be transparent and be legalists we propose this law. I'm glad they recognize the anti-corruption elements in this part because it was really a thread of leadership. One of the forms that can help is mentioned here refers to timely information. We think that the added value of this law is very important to publish on the web and the government's solutions to the interest and all other solutions, or activities that are taking place in the extradition process, precisely in order to obtain transparency and prevent different decisions from being made by comparison of decisions. What has been a practice so far and what this law should prevent, which is exactly the opposite of the interest Mr Batinić was talking about here. It was a practice that the exemption was used as a procedure instead of that procedure that was to be conducted in the local community previously. Therefore, the regulation of the property-legislative procedure should be the first action in carrying out a specific investment, not the last. And part of the reasons why our investments were stalled was the fact that we would end up solving property relations. No, that's not possible. Property relations can only be resolved at the beginning. Of course, first of all, the most interested person here is the investor himself, and I really don't think it matters if he's big or small, I think the question of investment is the question of our survival and that we don't need to repeat it again. As we have recognised the potentials of European funds, I hope that the local community will recognise the potential and well-being of every investment that comes in this sense will help in every way. Will it be an arrangement of property-legal relations compared to private persons? I'm afraid so. In this law, we will, as in many others, be increasingly faced with the need to establish the property at last and precisely, but it is also the basis for the rule of law to function as a whole. Whether the local community will recognize the interest and whether it will also participate in its work, which is related to Article 20, we assumed it would. But as you saw in the proposal, we put an alternative option to delete that article. I repeat, our idea was to recognize the potential of this law and, of course, the investments we believe will come. I'm sorry and I'm afraid that everyone has a good copy of the law because it keeps repeating the question of the deadline. So we have article 46, its title, the title above that article, is called the annulment of a powerful decision on authority. Article 46 also contains a period of 2 years, i.e. a maximum period of 5 years, which concerns the period of execution of the investment and which is in the law. We were talking about building and location permits. When we were working on the draft draft of this Act, the members of the task force were also very active representatives of the Ministry of Construction and we didn't do this by chance. On the contrary, the location permit will normally be required for what the Republic of Croatia recognised as its own interest. If it won't be necessary then it's an alternative construction site, but because of the weight of the institution itself, it's usually going to be a location permit. This has been asked a big question about changing plans. Of course, precisely because the exorcism will be performed according to the location permit then there is no change in purpose. And that's a very important thing about this law. And that's exactly the kind of prowess prevention we've unfortunately witnessed before. We've touched the issue of maritime good here. If the maritime well-expanded and, of course, the rules and procedures are provided for by the Law on Maritime Good and Maritime Ports, then the person who was a citizen in that section will have the right to protect his property or property. And we, in order to prevent complaints against Strasbourg and it is likely to be if we do not offer another solution, have provided for both the procedure and the solution for compensation and in such cases. Is that budgeted, that's the Marine Good Act, like I said. You mentioned situations with a small part of co-ownership, i.e. a small ideal percentage of co-ownership, so the persons who otherwise lead this process know very well that the solution to this breakdown is. And it's precisely a decomposition that's more possible as small a percentage of co-ownership as possible, though. What's also seen as a difference is the title of the law and we think it's a fundamental difference, so this isn't just the Act of Execution, this is the Law on determining compensation. The determination of the fee is essentially a fundamental right resulting from the expropriation, so the owner should receive the appropriate fee for the value of the outstanding property. And it's just part of the exorcism. I am pleased that there is also a need to discuss the regulation, the criteria, or criteria for establishing the value of the property, it just shows how necessary this regulation is and how well we have actually guessed what we have proposed to adopt it. The government will pass the regulation and the Department of Construction will rule. What is important and what will make it easier for us all to decide and verify artificial findings is the circumstance to determine the parameters for the real estate assessment. This will, of course, speed up the process. And if someone really thinks that the assessment is damaged, they will be able to get a decision based on these parameters that is more legitimate than the one that is not. This was also about the difference between agricultural land and other land, the regulation should, the draft that I saw and I can't say that I saw it because it also predicted that such a solution would therefore be prevented and such circumstances. In any case, we'll appreciate all the suggestions that are justified until the second reading. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67805	Thank you too, Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković-Kunšt. We have one replica, respected representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67806	Here's a respected deputy, you mentioned this part that I mentioned in the speech that is related to the ideal part and the decomposition of the co-ownership community. But I'll be free, so I'll give you an example of a proposal that's been going on for 12, 13 years now, given the work of our judiciary where, at the moment of the verdict, this one co-owner in one twentieth of the time, he's transferring that property to his daughter, and the procedure starts from the beginning, and it's been going on for years. So this law as it is imagined in that part makes it easier to access the problem itself. However, without being included, which I was talking about, which is the essence of the urban plans of the economy, the Rules of Procedure, whatever you want to call, the zone does not declare the interest of the Republic of Croatia at the beginning, not only for the infrastructure that is being built inside it but for the premises or working plateaus on which some halls, factories, or what will be determined from the strategic investment in that area. In this situation where we are in any city or municipality in the Republic of Croatia, we all have the same problem, solving property relations, unsettled land books and this problem that relates to the decomposition of some co-ownership communities.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67807	The reply to the replica is respected Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković-Kunšt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67808	Thank you very much. I agree that we have partially touched this law, and we will consider your suggestions in part, but we are very well aware of what you are saying, and we understand that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67809	Thank you, too, dear deputy. We've exhausted the report for a hearing on this agenda point. Proposal for a Law on Extinguishment and Determination of Compensation, First Reading, P.Z. No. 598. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the next conclusion. Firstly, the proposal for a Law on Expensiveness and Determination of Refunds is adopted. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's to suggest a conclusion? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 83 votes in favour, 3 votes against and 17 abstentions have reached the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67812	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and respected MPs. The letter of agreement on the implementation of the law between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America was signed on 26 September 2012, with the aim of establishing and supporting a regional initiative in the area of justice aimed at strengthening the rule of law, improving the capacity of the criminal justice system in SEE Europe, preventing and combating cross-border and organised crime and corruption and promoting sustainable legal reform promoting accountability, transparency and compliance with European standards. The Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States committed themselves to the annual take-up of actions and the investment of funds already authorised in an appropriate legislative procedure to support the implementation of the letter of consent. After a successful start-up of a regional initiative in the area of justice, and in order to fully achieve the objective and purpose described in the letter of agreement and to achieve the expected results for all US government participants, the US Government has approved additional funds of $570,000 for the successful implementation of this project, at the end of 2014. Due to the increase in financial allocations and due to the time extension of the project, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States signed in Zagreb on 27 September 2013 an amendment to the letter of consent on the implementation of the law between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America. Since the basis of the signed Letters of Consensus and Amendments of the Letters of Understanding is being implemented in the Republic of Croatia by a regional initiative in the field of justice, taking into account the fact that the United States has already completed its internal procedure, it is estimated that there is an interest that the Republic of Croatia, as soon as possible, will conclude its internal procedure and inform the United States of the letter of consent and the amendments and addition of the Scriptures to its provisions, will enter into force as soon as possible. The following is proposed by the Law on Confirmation of Letters of Understanding on Law Implementation between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States and amending and supplementing that letter to confirm in accordance with the final proposal for a law. This proposal for a law is proposed to discuss and accept the urgent procedure, given the nature of the procedure for confirming international contracts in which states and formally express their willingness to be bound by an already concluded international contract, as well as the fact that, at this stage of the procedure, we cannot normally amend and supplement the text of the international contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67813	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the Croatian Parliament Committee want to present reports? I don't think so. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going through the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the HDZ advocates' club and respected representative Davor Bozinovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67814	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Deputy Minister. This is, in any case, an initiative that is good and useful for the Republic of Croatia, primarily because of the fact that the United States has tried and succeeded in helping the reform processes in the Republic of Croatia as many times as in the last few decades. This is a particularly important area of judicial co-operation, and what I would like to open up in some way is a conversation with the proposing's representative, it's a few things that may be technical, but I still think that they should be discussed here in the Assembly in some way. First of all, when we talk about the name of this document, it is called the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Letters of Understanding on Law Implementation between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States and Amendments and Supplements to the Letters of Understanding on Law Implementation between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America. What's missing here, at least I don't get it from the title of implementing what law. Are we here talking about an international contract, whether it's bilateral, whether it's multilateral or we're implementing the law that makes Croatia and America the same law? We don't know from the title what this law applies to. Another thing that I would like the applicant to explain to us is the issue of introducing a regional initiative in the area of justice. Now I don't know if it's some regional initiative that we see from the text relating to Southeast Europe. But are the members of this regional initiative still countries other than the Republic of Croatia and the United States. Whether such type or specific agreements have been signed with other Southeast European countries. Because you have a whole series of initiatives that are in place right now, even when we talk about the area of justice that applies in Europe. Some are under the auspices of the EU, some are under the auspices of the Regional Co-operation Council. The Regional Co-operation Council is a successor to the Southeast European co-operation process. It has a regional anti-corruption initiative. I don't know if these two things are connected and what the relationship between them is, and I would like the motionary to explain it to us. I tried to see on the Ministry of Justice's website under the link of regional co-operation, there I only encountered this regional co-operation within the Regional Co-operation Council located in Sarajevo. We also have information in the text of this Agreement that progress has been made in the area of justice following the successful launch of the Regional Initiative on Justice. Even in that part of the agreement under the heading of evaluation, it is referred to the quantitative and qualitative indicators of this progress. What I'm sure would be very interesting for the parliamentary MPs who are going to vote on this proposal, on law enforcement, I still don't know just the law to see that progress. Is there anything we can know about him that's quantitative and qualitative indicators? I am saying this not to complicate a channel of cooperation, but I am talking about the quality of the material being delivered to parliament as preparation for debates in Parliament on legislative proposals. I don't know, maybe some of the promoters think or accept it as a fact that parliamentary deputies don't read the material. But as you can see from the MPs, at least some try not only to read, but also to understand some things. In the final word of the previous law, you said your intention was to be transparent and legal. I can only say that it is not easy for us to manage with regard to the amount and quality of information related to this legislative proposal that we have received from you, and given how you informed us, I am not sure that it is easy for you to manage, or catch any of these regional initiatives. So is this a bilateral agreement? If it's why you don't call him that. If it is a simple translation from another language, you still have to do something when it comes to making clear representatives in the Croatian Parliament, including the Croatian public. So what we expect from you at the very least is that you can't call for progress without pointing to that progress, that you can't talk about a regional initiative to tell us anything about this regional initiative. Anyway, I expect here are the answers to these questions. As for the goodwill of the United States, I thank them for that. Here, thank you. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67815	Thank you very much. Should I write that down? Okay. The next HDSSB club and respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67816	Here is Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister, MPs and MPs. A colleague of Bozinović may in a good way have scored a total of some of the problems that are present in the communication between the promoters safely and the Croatian Parliament, including in this proposal, but not only in this one. In any case, it is here, meaning one project that is clearly under way and is still being extended for a year of judicial cooperation and support for strengthening Croatian capacities in the area of prevention, somewhere and later listed drug trafficking, organised crime and corruption. It is also later stated in one of these annexes that this is actually about supporting the work of the Judicial Academy through various seminars, workshops and the like of which we as the HDSSB club support. This way, perhaps, the American view of a space that is always so small that it always looks at places that are easier to look at the whole world and then look at it through the regions and then put us in a region. I don't think we're going to take this evil by looking through our eyes, those frightened eyes when we talk about the region, we're going to read the concept of the region here through the American concept of Europe, or space when they're talking about some places. In any case, these programs are always welcome. If we need to strengthen our capacities anywhere, then we must certainly strengthen them when it comes to the Croatian judiciary, about judicial reform, about strengthening the fight against corruption, organised crime in all forms. So the HDSSB club anyway supports this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67817	Thank you too, dear colleague. We've exhausted a list of registered clubs and registered representatives. Is she a representative of the Proposer? Yeah. Final word, here's the deputy minister. Sandra Artuković Kunscht, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67818	Thank you very much. Well, thank you for your support of the HDSSB club and, if I may, I'm glad that you have seen the importance of this law, that is, this letter of consent, which provides for the implementation of the law and, as you pointed out, if the government proposes certain proposals for the parliamentary procedure, then it is assumed that they are being read. Well, just because we assume they're being read, I think reading can make it clear what it's all about. It is a regional initiative that we can complete the issue of which other countries are participating here. Serbia, Bosnia, Montenegro, Macedonia, Kosovo and Albania are participating. And we are very well aware that organised crime knows no borders and that its very regional action deserves an enhanced initiative. And in that sense, we are grateful to the U.S. government for helping us in this part of here and for what we can continue this project. He's separated from the anti-corruption initiative project, it's something else entirely. And I don't think that we need to distinguish the kinds of projects we're dealing with in the proposal itself because that's not really the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67819	Thank you, too. Replication of the respected representative Davor Bozinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67820	Madam Deputy Minister, of course we thanked and supported, and we are very aware of the importance of cooperation in this area, in the end and we have started this cooperation and this cooperation has lasted all these years, which is why Croatia and with the help of the United States ended the negotiations in Chapter 23 and became a full member of the EU. What you obviously do not understand is that you face something daily at your workplace it is not at the same time the contents of the work of the daily work of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. I asked you why the title was unclear, I asked you if it was a type-of-the-art agreement and it's signed with other countries? You listed several pages of the text and you did not tell us that what you have now said are Member States, whether these are type agreements, whether there may be a difference when we talk about accepting European standards of a Member State such as Croatia and other countries that are either candidates or potential candidates, which are located in Southeast Europe. So, you're the Deputy Minister of Justice and I can tell you that the documents of this kind, the legal documents of this kind don't tolerate this kind of ambiguity and indeterminateness especially when we're talking about some new initiatives and what you've come up with, you haven't made it transparent for us here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67821	Thank you very much. Replica reply, Deputy Minister Sandra Artuković Kunšt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67822	It is an interstate contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States. You said yourself that the initiative and cooperation that was before is continuing. So it's not about anything new or anything that's not unknown. It extends and continues cooperation in this area. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67823	Thank you very much. We wrote down everything you had to say. The debate on the text of the law is over. We'll vote on it when the conditions for voting are met. Final proposal of the Law confirming the letter of agreement on the implementation of the law between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States and amending and supplementing the letter of agreement on the implementation of the law between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 594. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find the law to be P.Z.E.'s number. No. 594 was adopted in the text as proposed by the Proposer unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67826	Thank you very much. The contract between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina was therefore signed in Zagreb on 28 November 2012. Contracting extradition of their own citizens to certain criminal offences. Therefore, the exception to the rule that their own citizens are not being extradited is prescribed for more serious crimes, which strengthens co-operation between the Republic of Croatia and the BiH in the fight against organised crime and corruption. What is important here is that this International Treaty prevents individuals from avoiding prosecution and enforcement of criminal sanctions by abuse of the principle of the Institute of Non-delivery of their own citizens. The failure to extradite its own citizens has led to impunity, i.e. the inability to prosecute the enforcement of criminal sanctions and the lack of an effective, insufficient legal framework for the achievement of cooperation in this area in relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia will be further improved by the conclusion of this Treaty. It is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia to end the internal procedure and, given the nature of the procedure, to confirm international contracts in which the state and formally expresses its willingness to be bound by an already concluded international contract and the fact that, at this stage of the procedure, the amendments and addition of the text of the international contract cannot be made, an emergency procedure is proposed to discuss the proposal for a contract law between the Republic of Croatia and the BiH on extradition with the final draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67827	Thank you very much. Do the presidents of the board of the Croatian Parliament want to present a report? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We'll start the debate with the representatives' clubs. It is the SDP Club and the respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67828	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club supports the adoption of a bill on the confirmation of the contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia on extradition and when we talk about this topic and this topic, then we cannot all mention the events of the 1990s when aggression was experienced against Croatia and when, at that time, criminals of every kind and of great co-operation, regardless of the conflicts of war, but what is devastating is that such persons in neighbouring countries were given citizenship. Thus, as criminals, Croatians gained Serbian citizenship, Serbs as a Serbian underworld that had never been in Croatia, and no one else was born here so that some kind of blood kin could get citizenship, they got citizenship. It was obviously the same with BIH and other countries in something small but the same with Montenegro, perhaps less with Macedonia. At least it's not about that, our media didn't write about it. So no one has ever dealt with the issue of revising such acquisitions of citizenship. We are in our time around a person who has now refused to hand over to Croatia because the statutes of limitations have been delivered and supervised by all the papers that this person has acquired German citizenship, torment, has not appeared because otherwise it is considered diplomatic when such requests are not answered that it is not even polite to ask such a single country, but it has now responded in such a way. I'm only saying this because this is what was difficult to correct at all because this contract, of course, and its individual provisions, and the whole of it, will only apply to those crimes for which it will only take place after the entry into force of this contract or the execution of the sentence. If we see a little bit of what this is really about, I think the contract is well-supply, that it covers everything that is possible to kill and what is most and what needs to be contained, and that's the extradition of its own citizens, but also those others who find themselves on our territory for crimes where a sentence of one year or more severe punishment has been imposed, so no matter what, no double-punishment exams. This is especially important so that it is perfectly clear that this is sought, punishability, and by the law of the requesting State and state, the execution of such a request. Then, for the crimes of organised crime, corruption and money laundering, the tax also lists the extradition of their own state for other serious crimes mentioned in the article in the eighth year or the most severe sentence. However, it is particularly noteworthy, and it is important to note that for the most serious crimes, these are the crimes of genocide and crimes against humanity and war crimes, there is no extradition of my own citizens if I read it well. I think that given what was happening in our area and a very rational provision that all of this, that this is the basic prerogative of the host country, and that this country itself will solve in its territory, that their judiciary, their judiciary, is capable of doing so. With regard to these other norms, it is also important to mention the principle of universality, which is that, even with these exceptions, they will not meet such a single requirement. What was I gonna say about this? That no one defends any country because it is known to me, some countries may not have it, but countries in our environment have one principle, so when a person is found in its territory and is not a citizen, he or she is not even a citizen and has committed a criminal offence in another country to the harm of a third party, so all possible combinations, is authorized to judge such a person. Therefore, the primary justice system was called upon to judge such persons. I think they're very well-supplyed with these provisions when they won't, when extradition won't be met. So when it comes to asylum or extradition, some of the obligations of the requesting country would be violated. It is also particularly stressed that the principle, not twice on the same, is the principle of "no bis in i go", so if he has already endured punishment here, if the matter has already been processed, or if such a single request, or if the procedure that was led has been suspended. It is particularly apostrophe and outdated, it is well placed here and is said therefore that the land of the prayer woman will refuse, cannot refuse, therefore it is not subject to the assessment but is a congenital norm and will always be rejected in the case, so that the statute of limitations has occurred either in the country or in the country of prayer or by the law of the country that is asked for. It also requires mutual punishment, which is also good because it removes everything, removes all recommendations. With the principle of territoriality, Article 15 also found it necessary to particularly apostrophe and I say again to point out that countries, therefore authorised to judge all those persons who have committed any crime, but that even if they have not done so, that such persons are now able to be extradited. Therefore, the law particularly distinguishes when it must be done, and when each country will evaluate on the basis of, therefore, these rules which, therefore, are certain provisions of this bill, when they do not comply with that requirement. Here, the SDP Club supports the adoption of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67829	Thank you, too, dear colleague. It is up to the HDZ Club and the respected representative Davor Bozinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67830	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The HDZ Club believes that this is a good bill and that it deals with an important problem given the fact that BiH is our neighbouring state, that it will in some way prevent certain practices that once existed. This is the agreement that has been made possible, among other things, colleague Ingrid is exactly the instructions of certain rules which have been applied when proposing this law. What she may have missed is that in 2010, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia was changed by a provision which allowed her to deviate from the principle of non-delivery of her own nationals to other countries, which is a subject which we specifically handled regarding the European arrest warrant and its application in the case of the Republic of Croatia, and these are not of course the same things, regardless of what the subject of extradition is and is present in this case as well as in this Agreement. This is a bilateral agreement, so an agreement between the two states, it is an agreement that primarily requires judicial co-operation. Here are the countries which, therefore, are the two countries that can agree on what they consider to be important at some point, applicable and therefore some of the provisions are what they are. Any one related to issues of limitations, mutual punishment, prosecution for the same crime and the like. However, I would have come back again, but I would have remained contentally at this point, on what was earlier. So what we expect from the legislator, the promoter on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is to give us the last information that is relevant to this agreement or any other item of the agenda that is currently current. We here have in mind that the basis for the adoption of the law is an emergency procedure in Article 204(1). The Rules of Procedure, the fact that this agreement is applicable, is therefore in force in practice from the date of signature and given the nature of the procedure for the confirmation of international states, Croatia is formally expressing its willingness to be bound by an already concluded international contract and is therefore proposed to consider and discuss and accept this law in an emergency procedure. What would be correct, and it is not impossible to find out, it is, and to know about it by parliamentary representatives, it is in which status this contract is and its ratification in BiH. This is a minimum of what we should know because international contracts, when the signatories of the treaty are concluded by diplomatic means, notify each other where they are or have implemented the Constitution provided for in the internal procedure in order for a certain law to enter into force. I, unlike the promoters, made an effort to surf the internet and saw that the BiH presidency seemed to have made a decision on ratification in 2013 because it is the last instance under BiH's internal legislation because parliament makes a recommendation to the BiH presidency. So again, I'm trying to point out not from any small fide but from the need for Parliamentarians to get full information and appeal to the promoters to give it to us. Don't be afraid of if we're gonna read it or not. We'll read it and compare it. For a bilateral agreement on its ratification, it is very important that we know the status of the agreement with another signatories country in this case, BiH. I said that I read this on the Internet, it's unofficial information, maybe it's true, maybe it's not true, and that's why we need a proposal that, with its proposal, will stand behind the full information the parliamentary representatives need. I am sure, regardless of the position of the promoter to this or that political option, that in this case I have the support of all representatives of the Croatian Parliament as well as the previous point, which is to get all relevant information. That's why we're here, and that's the only thing that makes it possible for us to do our job the way it does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67831	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Jasen Mesic has a replica at the club's stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67832	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I have a replica of one since my colleague Bozinovic said that he was surfing the internet and that he must have noticed then that there were certain so-called. A quick extradition when it comes to misdemeanors. So, for example, I don't know my colleague Bozinovic very recently, now former SDP chief Međimurje is so stopped at the border of the Bosnian-Herzegovina police and customs bodies, stopped with a quantity for me large, perhaps not for him, of 74 thousand euros. They took his money right away because it wasn't a crime, it wasn't a crime, and here we had one situation where this law wasn't necessary at all because it wasn't a criminal offence, so it wasn't supposed to be an extradition agreement. However, the gentleman in question is without those 70 and I don't know how many thousands of euros were sent to the border in the Republic of Croatia. To date, we don't know if those assets he had and whose offense he didn't report were obtained and earned on something that could be characterized as a criminal offence. However, we also have cases like this, regardless of what you have well analyzed this law, we have such cases where it can happen that an expeditionively someone who has committed such an eclectic offense is sent across the border to the motherland without a substantial amount of money.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67833	The reply to the replica, the respected representative Davor Bozinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67834	Mr. Mesic, now you've given me a job and I'm trying to see where this case of a representative who's been arrested with 74 grand is not a representative. ... And the president of SDP Međimurje with 74 thousand, here I'm trying to see where it would be in this agreement, but you know I'm not even authorized here, I'm sure that maybe even a proposing representative will give that one more competent opinion. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm trying to see here, it can't be a verdict made in absentia or a delay in extradition. I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67835	Thank you very much. My comment is that every cabin has its mosquito, but in some mosquito it's as big as an elephant. Can we continue with the HDSSB club and respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67836	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister, MPs and MPs. So we actually have here a proposal to ratify this bilateral extradition agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In some ways, this proposal astounded me on yesterday's proposal to also ratify the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Montenegro. And both of them actually got me thinking like this, I didn't, I really didn't... expert, on the citizens' thinking of the positions that we as the Republic of Croatia or the Government and those who, on behalf of the Government, are actually taking and occupying what positions this Republic of Croatia is taking in relation to its neighbours. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One and the other agreements actually strongly associate me on a high, very high level of co-operation, openness, good neighbourly cooperation, high good neighbourly cooperation, one desire for more intense contact and relationship. And as in this Agreement with Montenegro on Social Insurance, we agreed to pay, for example, a child's allowance for people living in the Republic of Croatia to have children who are not even Croatian citizens, so here we will agree to hand over, for example, a powerful person who has a fine of power in prison for at least 4 months in the neighbouring country. And this case astounded me on the one where we discussed these days that is the case of a Croatian citizen who has been convicted by law because he also complained to the Croatian Assembly in the follow-up to the Committee on Presentations and Appeals, who was legally sentenced to 4 months in prison for attempting to give 200 kuna bribes to a police officer. The second-degree procedure confirmed the verdict and sentenced him to 4 months in prison for attempting to commit bribes and other crimes that involved it. And in the event that he attempted to flee to Bosnia and Herzegovina for such a serious crime under this Agreement, such a single offence would then include the extradition procedure, such a bilateral contract. The fact is that what one of the predecessors used to say was that we were indeed in some years that, that criminal groups that always act extrateriorly, act according to their interests and objectives, really acted in the space of the former Yugoslavia, completely uninterrupted, coordinated. And they didn't pay too much attention to the borders of then-formed states because that crime doesn't even know the limits. But on the other hand, the fact that this intensity of this crime has dropped. The fact is that we have changed one significant circumstance that the Republic of Croatia has become a member of the European Union and thus entered into a completely different form of relations with some other countries outside the territory of the country in which it once was. And if we were through these contracts, here's the one that was on the wallpaper last night, and today we're kind of going back and forth and turning around or towards some space that we think is somewhere our focus on which we have to systematically exhaust all our bilateral activity. So I say in some ways this is not just a question of our relationship to social rights or the question of our relationship to crime, but it is a question of our worldly attitude, our policy options to which we will belong, how we will observe the notion of sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, how we will observe the fact that the Republic of Croatia is located in one of today's defined structures called the European Union in which it has really special relations with all member states. And now that we're going through a whole series of bilateral agreements with these few remaining countries of the former Yugoslavia, we're going to be putting together dozens of bilateral agreements, I don't know exactly what we're going to do with our goals. I'd like to join a fellow predecessor, and maybe it would be good if a little bit and some quantified data were out so let's see where the problems are. If we set ourselves up, then we take this situation that is specific to Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is this enormously long land border, which is still much more closed today than it was a year or two ago, or that in a year, two will be even more incarcerated. And the fact that the largest number of Croatian citizens currently live in Bosnia and Herzegovina when it comes to neighbouring countries, perhaps we really need a special agreement with Bosnia and Herzegovina on these issues. Again, I would just look back at this article in paragraphs 6 and 3, so it is clear that this contract is now unchangeable and we can only talk about whether it is acceptable or not. And if that's the case, then we'll say we won't mind in principle. But we would love to have as many economic cooperation agreements as possible, on the specific economic relations that we will establish with the neighbouring countries and, in fact, as little as possible, and as little as possible, the European Union is limiting us, and as little as possible, the bilateral agreements that will deal with these issues that we actually think are not primary and that in these new circumstances we still have to accept the fact that we are one sovereign state that is today a member of another integration, and that our neighbours remain in that other space and everything is fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67837	Thank you, Your Honor. On behalf of the HNS Club, the respected representative Sonja König.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67838	Thank you very much, dear President of our Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So here are a few more sentences that go in the direction of confirmation and support of what the respected Deputy Justice Minister said in his introduction because criminals in our region unfortunately often cooperated better than their governments. Their hand was also the fact that the constitution and the laws banned or made their extradition significantly difficult. So it could have happened, actually, that's what happened, that someone in one country was convicted for example of corruption, embezzlement, or some other crime, but they found the hideout in another country. This was a major problem in the area of particularly the territory of the former Yugoslavia because the ban on extradition allowed criminals to cross from one country to another, while having their own country, their own country, but fortunately it changed, changed many constitutions and complemented, changed many laws in recent years, signed many conventions, agreements and contracts. A bilateral extradition agreement between the Republic of Croatia and BiH aimed at allowing dual citizenship to be no obstacle to the extradition of the perpetrators of the most serious crimes was signed in Zagreb, according to the respected deputy minister, more than a year ago and ministers of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina's justice ministers. There was only a mutual recognition and enforcement agreement between Croatia and BiH until then. And the media rightly conveyed this important news to the following titles that actually describe the substance of the contract: Croatia and BiH's mutual extradition agreement finally signed, dual citizenship is no longer an obstacle to extradition, no more fleeing to BiH, no more ringing criminals, signed extradition agreement, Croatia and BiH are no longer a haven for criminals. This contract, or the Treaty Confirmation Act, will avoid the practice by which the perpetrators of various crimes with dual citizenship fled from one country to another and thus avoided prosecution and prosecution. It will therefore be a powerful tool in the fight against crime. And a few words about the contract itself. Unlike most contracts in which reading is hard to break through legal expression, wish that, unless you have completed at least the Faculty of Law, this extradition contract between the Republic of Croatia and BiH is easily legible, it is clear and logical, taxing the way in which each other is communicated, the extradition process and, of course, the crimes for which extraditions are carried out. This Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and BiH on Extradition is a reflection of the two countries' intention to fight jointly against organised crime and corruption and other serious crimes. It is a significant step, and in further strengthening the trust between our two countries and the messages to those involved in crime, messages to those whose crime is a job, that they cannot escape the hands of justice and the HNS Club will support this law for these reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67839	Thank you very much. We've exhausted a list of registered representatives and clubs. Is the representative of the Proposer, yes. Final word, please welcome the esteemed Deputy Minister Sandra Artuković-Kunšt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67840	Thank you very much. So here is the content of this proposal, so the proposal for a law on the confirmation of this contract has been applied to the standard procedure with the standard and the usual scope of the content, so we consider that special additions in terms of reporting what kind of procedure was in another country and the rest of what is proposed is not necessary because it crosses this category of standards. We spoke of genocide, or crimes against humanity and international law. The International Criminal Court shall have jurisdiction over these types of criminal offences and, if so, in the case of a dispute between the States, the International Court of Justice and, if that is the case. The question is whether and what is the purpose and what is the purpose of signing such an international contract, so exactly what we have highlighted, is to prevent individuals from being abused by the principle institute of non-delivery of their own citizens from avoiding prosecution and punishment. It is because we are a sovereign state and precisely because we function as a legal state that we conclude these contracts and realize then and the meaning that comes from criminal proceedings, and one of them is actually strengthening the economic structure. It is not a crime apart from what our economic world creates, i.e. the proper implementation, processing and punishment of crime and corruption, which, of course, leads to the progress of the economy, and this is generally known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67841	Thank you, too. We have one replica of the respected representative Davor Bozinovic. Late. ... Is that an honorable word? [[You can't hear it.]] I believe in honor. [[- Intruder: Honorary word.]] Here you go, two replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67842	Thank you. Madam Deputy Minister, I agree with what you have said about the importance of this issue, even in the context of the economy, because the functioning of the judiciary, the functioning of the rule of law is very important in order to create a framework of legal certainty and stability which is something that is of interest to every investor, every businessman who operates on a relationship in this case of two states, including a gentleman who is likely to have some more stable legal framework, would not have to do what Mr Mesic described and emphasized in his replica. However, I cannot agree with you when you talk about a standard that is applicable to the implementation and proposal of this type of agreement. I would ask you to tell me where this standard has been established and by which standard the representatives of the Croatian Parliament should not be informed when we talk about the ratification of bilateral agreements as a matter of ratification in another country of the signatories of this agreement. Is that standard established somewhere? If it is repeated, it does not have to mean that it is a standard and is not a standard unless no one has questioned that standard, such a practice has not put into question. I think there's a consensus here that we want to be informed of all relevant facts relating to the ratification of this agreement, and it's relevant that we know that the matter with the procedure is on the other side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67843	Thank you, too. Replica reply, respected Deputy Minister Sandra Artuković-Kunšt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67844	Thank you very much. By standard, we mean the usual practice when proposing a contract or law on the validation of international contracts that took place in this House during the years of its existence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67845	Thank you very much. Another replica of the respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67846	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, ma'am. And my replica is on the trail of what my colleague Bozinovic was saying. So I really don't think too personally that it's too much of a problem to explain this law to add a small passage with one sentence of information that happens with the same international contract in another country. I can give an example last night we had a very good Law on the Agreement between Croatia and Montenegro on Social Insurance, where it was nice to explain in the introduction of the law that this same Agreement was already signed in Podgorica on the day of that and so we could see that Mrsic was at the time and then in Montenegro on an official visit and that it was already ratified. Yes, according to this, if the standard is viewed that way, then the standard of that law that we had yesterday in the Croatian Parliament was to discuss that sentence and in some ways it was an argument that it was to be accepted according to emergency procedure. An additional argument to be accepted according to the emergency procedure, and in our discussions, we have referred to it, so in this sense here I think that I have indeed seen this replica of my colleague Bozinovic as a positive suggestion not something that will deunify us about our decision to vote on this among the state agreement. But even if they were such standards, they would improve. The problem is that very often we get laws in this assembly that are destroying already set standards. I'm not saying that in this case. Here we have a chance based on what counterpart Bozinovic said to improve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67847	Reply to the replica respected deputy justice minister respected Sandra Kunst-Artukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67848	I'm going to repeat what I said before, and I don't think it makes any sense that we're opening up any further procedure here. But if the standards move forward, we'll be glad it's gonna be us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67849	While the standard lasts if it's good, if it's not, then it needs to be changed and there are a lot of standards that are bad. Okay. We've exhausted the list. ... HDZ is very good. [[You can't hear it.]] Very good HDZ. We've exhausted the list of persons reported for discussion on this subject. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Final proposal of the Law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on extradition, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 593. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the 100 votes in favour of, 4 abstentions have been passed by the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on extradition in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67852	Dear Mr. President, honourable MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Allow a brief introduction to the Proposed Law on Tourist Inspection with the final proposal of the law. This bill is one of the sets of legislative proposals to be adopted in order to transform the State Inspectorate. By way of effect of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Circular of the Ministrys and other central bodies of the State Administration, National No. 148 of 2013 as of 1 January 2014, the State Inspectorate has ceased its work, and the inspection tasks carried out by the State Inspectorate have been taken over by the competent ministries. The Ministry of Tourism therefore takes over inspection tasks in the field of catering activity and the provision of services in tourism. This legislative proposal proposes the establishment of a Tourist Inspectorate, Jobs and Mode of the Tourist Inspectorate as well as the conditions for appointment and rights, the obligations and powers of tourist inspectors and other issues in this respect. Tourist inspection is proposed to be formed as an internal establishment unit within the Ministry of Tourism which will have regional units and facilities to be regulated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This legislative proposal proposes that the Ministry of Tourism take control of the application of the laws and regulations governing the arrangements and conditions under which legal and natural persons carry out catering activities or provide catering services or provide tourism services other than inspection supervision in the event of unregistered activity carried out by competent inspectors of the Ministry of Finance. It is proposed to take over state officials and deputy state inspectors who have been found in the work undertaken in proportion to the work undertaken, representing 69 employees for the Ministry of Tourism, of which 60 are tourist inspectors. The above changes require arrangements for the work of tourist inspectors and the authority and conduct of tourist inspectors. The fundamental issues that this law seeks to deal with are the establishment of the Tourist Inspectorate, the management of the Tourist Inspectorate, the conditions for carrying out inspection tasks over the implementation of the regulations in the area of the Tourist Inspectorate, the rights and obligations of tourist inspectors in the implementation of the regulations and the violation of responsibility. The adoption of the proposed law will create an appropriate legal framework for the operation of the Tourist Inspectorate, which would act as an independent internal organisational unit of the Ministry of Tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67853	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the representatives of the working bodies want to present reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate, we're going to the representatives' clubs. A club of independent and respected representatives of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67854	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Minister, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. We're going in this kind of order. First of all, I quote "Inspectives of the State Inspectorate and the rights, duties and powers of the inspectors were governed by the State Inspectorate Act. Under that law, the State Inspectorate shall carry out inspection in the field of trade in services in the catering activity, the provision of services in tourism, in the field of work and protection at work, in the field of electricity, in the field of mining and the area of pressure equipment." Now, more than 40 inspections have been set up to carry out inspection tasks in the Republic of Croatia, most of which operate within the central authorities of the state administration that are responsible for a particular administrative area while in the State Inspectorate 5 inspections were carried out by that work, the Economic Inspectorate, the Pressure Equipment Inspectorate, the Mining Inspectorate and the Electrical Energy Inspectorate who carried out inspection tasks in administrative areas in the jurisdiction of other bodies. I absolutely agree that the state should be reorganized. When I say reorganize, then it means that the state needs to reform, and when it comes to health and justice and education and social welfare, I don't know, the state administration, all these major agencies. And for God's sake, we need to reorganize or reform the local self-government itself. And in this context reform the proper and inspection. But how? When we talk about the state administration, what will this reorganisation look like? So we have a tax administration that today, for example, There are 21 district offices, 124 outposts. That'll come down to five district offices, 53 outposts. When we talk about welfare centers, we have 80 centers, 38 branches, 80 boards of directors. That'll come down to five centers, 96 branches, five boards of directors. When we talk about the Office of State Administration, we have 20 presidents, 20 deputies, 84 service leaders. It's probably going in the direction of 5 presidents, 20 assistants, 5 secretaries, 59 senior professional associates or advisors. Then there's the police, etc., so I don't list everything here. What is probably certain is that the headquarters of the Office of State Administration Istria, Rijeka Gospić will be in Pazin. We'll fight for the other one. Clearly, the county of Istria will not be questioned by what I would say about this subjectivity. Now, how much is this law going to cost me to quote that? Yes, the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget, but it is necessary to redistribute the funds between the budgetary beneficiaries of the changes and the additions of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014. At the positions of the Ministry of Tourism in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 plans or plans are made for only 35 employees of the Tourist Inspectorate, a finished quote. Now we're going in kind of a row. We have lost 176 thousand jobs from 2008 to today. And that's 108 thousand legal employees, 56 thousand in craftsmanship, 12398 in agriculture. It's all a real sector. On the other hand, we hired in education and healthcare from 2008 to 2013. 8509 people, 3393. And why am I counting it? Because I'm now coming to tourism where 1884 jobs have been opened during that period. So what am I saying? In tourism in 2008, there were 50 thousand 545 people, today 52 thousand 429 and that is plus 1884 employees. So, tourism can say that it's a rare branch that even though I'm going to tell the poiners, so somebody corrects me is growing even when it comes to employment. Now talk about the tourist inspection and not mentioning the tourist results in 2013 would be incorrect. Now Kvarner had a growth of 2.6% when it comes to nights, Split-Dalmatia County 8.5% growth, Zadar +4.4%, Dubrovnik-Neretvanska +6.9%, Sibenik-Kninska 7.2%, Ličko-Senjska +7%, the city of Zagreb +12.1%) and Istria growth of only 0.3% although it accumulated the highest number of nights of 22 million 46 thousand 817. In 2013 income was 6.6 billion euros from tourism but the revenue of 7.3 billion from 2008 seems to be still high-level. Now what's interesting about this law here? This is Article 5i quote: "In order to carry out activities from the tourist inspection area outside the ministry's headquarters, internal building units of tourist inspection in district units with headquarters in Osijek, Rijeka, Split, Varazdin and Zagreb are being established, and the number of outposts and self-executors is needed." It's a done quote. I said that the headquarters of the state administration will be in Pazin, and there is no place in this article 5th from Istria, whether it is Pazin, or Tar-Vabriga, whether it is Rasha, Marchan, Ljižnjan, Brtonigli, it is all places other than Pazin that have clear seas or which are at sea. Brtonigla's a little inside, but come on, these municipalities have seas. Our minister is no less than the President and Council of IDS and I am interested in why Istria is being bypassed here or is now some new direction contrary to the declaration of "single Istria" etc. Despite the fact that in 2013, everyone had a bigger increase in nights than Istria, Istria still makes 22 million nights, it is a circus, say 30%, and it would have been reported that Istria has not only "internal unit" as it is called tourist inspections but that perhaps the Ministry of Tourism is in Opatija and it is Istria either in Poreč or Brtonigli or what I know down in Liznjan, just to say once again that Istria had 22 million and 46 thousand overnights, Kvarner 12 million and 633 thousand overnights, Split-Dalmatia 12 thousand 847 million nights, Zadar 9.6 million nights etc., etc. But when we talk about the reorganisation of the system, I think I need to reorganize the entire system of tourist communities that have a circus of 600 million kuna and many of those 305 if I'm not mistaken, there are so many of them somewhere or some more tourist communities, they may not even know what they're doing. What I also think is that in this legal text, these penalties in Article 29 are really too high. It is not the same punishment to determine from 10, 50 more thousand kunas to a privatised tourist home whose base is set by workers I don't know until 90 or someone who issues an apartment and it is not the same to determine the penalty for someone who uses camp on state land what we call tourist land that the notes haven't paid for 23 years or someone who betrays, I don't know, say, pedals. That's right. This year, hoteliers, if we follow them, are screaming about VAT correction from 10% to 13%, and are now clearly opposed to an increase in water protection fee. It'll be easier for the camps, but when we're at that water, I'm more concerned about it. I'd say our citizens. Right, Croatian waters and I say they have significant investments in Istria in 2014, in two years 560 million kuna, while 425 million kuna was invested in 2012, or only in the water supply from this "parafiscal" Croatian Water Fund in Istria in four years, so in one term, a billion kuna circus will be invested. It will gather in Istria 450 million kuna. It's the only case where Istra is more likely, where Istria is coming back more than the people of Istria are paying. And lastly, I am asking the Deputy Minister to intervene in this article of the 5th Law. I will not submit an amendment on purpose, I expect the government of the Republic of Croatia to do so, more specifically the competent ministry. I thought MP given the amendment, I won't, I expect the minister who is president of the IDS Council to do this nicely in accordance with the declaration of a single Istria and do it. I see the minister writing and signing this law, the position that, so he's signing the law and this attitude to be those inspections in Rijeka, the minister said, the president of the IDS Council, the deputy minister defends this law, and now I'd like to know, is it also Jakovic that there are inspections in Rijeka? Or is it just for him to get out of Istria by the way of Brussels? Now, I just don't know this, but here's why I'm completely honest with you, I don't want to give up the amendment, and I expect the minister himself who's usually the president of the IDS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67855	Your Honor, the minister cannot give the amendment That's something else. [[Intruder Cain: Can Government.]] We have four replicas to present our esteemed colleague, Damir Cain. The first replica is a respected representative of Lidija Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67856	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, I had to react to a colleague of Caine's, and I have to realize that, to me, this seemed more demagogy, frankly. I understand that you have to take care of Istria and really use every opportunity to point it out and I appreciate it anyway. If you look at all these inspection laws a little bit, there is an inspection of the same logic and I have no doubt there will be outposts in Istria. But if all inspections are set up in a certain way, then it's logical that there will be one within the tourism ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67857	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67858	No, there's no demagogy in my performance. I am merely performing in the spirit of the declaration of the unique Istria with which he fears the citizens, but I do not know how many months or how scared he was until the moment Jakovcic probably found some place on the European Parliament list. I hope he's not under regular number four and no more danger, no more closets, no more no more Franjo Tudjman, no more threatened Istria. Nothing, now shut up, now shut up. And here I am, defending, also asking the Deputy Minister who came to the Ministry for the proposal by Mr. Jakovčić to carry out, under quotes of pressure on the minister and to submit a nice amendment through the Government to amend Article 5 and that one of these exhibits does not matter now where, in Pazina, in Ližnjan, Taru-Vabriga, Rasha or elsewhere. Just on the other side of Ucka.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67859	Please, Your Honor, the arguments are strong, don't add. The next replica of the respected representative of Kresimir Bubal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67860	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Cain, you have indeed debated heartily, but when we talk about article 5, where Osijek, Rijeka, Split, Varazdin and Zagreb are mentioned, there is no mention of Pazin and Pula. It was probably the thoughtless minister's decision because logically where the headquarters is there, tourist employees, tourist workers and people are being punished more, it's actually well done. And I'd like Osijek not to be on this list and getting the means to promote tourism like Istria does. I'd love to, and I'd like to welcome that decision. But when it comes to continental tourism, there are almost no promotions, especially in the tourism community's budget and the resolution ministry. Therefore, I think that the minister did go thinkingfully in this Article 5, so that Istra would not be punished.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67861	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67862	And I wish he had thought less about it, so let's say he put that inspection somewhere in Istria. We can, here's the trade. You give us this inspection from Osijek, and we'll make sure that through the tourist communities maybe a little more funding goes towards Osijek. However, you, Mr. Commissioner Bubalo, must know that Istra, if somewhere in the area of tourism, should be located, then I suppose it should be located in Istria. We have about 22 million overnights. It is true that all counties last year had a much bigger increase in nights than Istria. Istra small 0.3%. Is that a minister's mistake? Is it the fault of the one who runs the tourist communities? Is that a local self-government mistake? Me as an agent? We'll talk about it some other time. Nearest county that can by tourist number of nights, funds, etc. Compare, compare with Istria is Split-Dalmatia, or Primorje-Gorski with about 12 million nights. Once again, I want to apostrophe this very, very different from almost 10 million nights, and I really think that even the Ministry of Tourism should be based in Istria, not in Zagreb, because there are revenues there, and it might drop a little bit more on Osijek and some other parts of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67863	A new replica, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67864	Thank you very much, President. So, colleague Cain, I didn't understand from your debate that you were in favor or against this law? Because if that's the case, then it's a new moment in your life because you've been very supportive of all the coalition proposals, the Kukuriku coalition in power, and it's amazing that you've even supported that tourism development strategy by 2020 and until 2025, and then you've determined that now the goal is to get close to 2008 and that 7.3 billion kuna of revenue, billions of euros in tourism revenue, and the strategy said 18.5 billion by 2020. [[Attack Cain: Opposite.]] So you have to say what is the goal of this coalition and all the activities that are going on in tourism to look serious because this is now becoming in some way the attachment of you and Mr. Jakovčić about who will be the protector of Istria, but the protector of the SDP. I read today in the "New List" that he is the protector of the SDP and you have so far supported all SDP decisions and he has made progress and has now ended up on the list for the European Parliament and will enter the European Parliament. And now you're angry and you'll be against this law just for that. It's not correct, it's not responsible. And he says that you only parted because you wanted to be at one point and the president of the state at the second moment the president of the IDS and finally the mayor of the Istrian County that he did not allow you. And with that you bother the Istrians with your fights and I don't know if you're a member or who's even more a member of that IDS. You recently called IDS an investigative democratic council, you who have been vice president of that Istrian Democratic Assembly for 20 years, that it is now being investigated. So I think the minimum of decency requires that you treat your colleagues in a quality way that's fair. But if the Istrians knew who was leading them because in those disputes... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67865	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67866	I don't know, sir. I don't know if he called you Jakovcic or called you Karamarko. But I do know that, together with Jakovcic, he's done a lot of work on how he's gonna be able to... he doesn't need to communicate with you like that, but he did this election mainly when it comes to the second round. Anything that isn't against Istria, I normally support it. If it's anything against Istria, then I've never supported it, nor will I raise my hand for it. I never supported it, so even the first one probably had reservations to that tourist strategy, not believing it was possible within 4, 5 or not knowing how many years to make the number of hotels I don't know from how many, how many hotel rooms were mentioned there. And once again, I will say that this government has certainly not worked against Istria. And I'm just going to mention one thing that in 2013 there was about a billion and 300 million kuna invested on Istria's space regardless of political resolutions. Never before, never after probably that money Istria will return.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67867	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Jasen Mesic and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67868	I must say, first of all, that for two reasons, I've replicated my esteemed colleague Caine. The first thing he said was that growth, employment in tourism and tourist nights happens by momentum as if it were a free fall and that we have an accelerant, so jobs are only being opened by momentum. With this, we have in some ways offended tourism workers and people who invest in tourism and people who create jobs in tourism and private small renters who are trying to organize something for tourism and create something. Therefore, this statement does not stand, because you are saying that you always advocate an economy, for development, for workers either in Istria, I believe not only in Istria, I believe in other parts of Croatia, therefore it does not stand. But the fact is also that during the debate on tourist inspection, you explained exactly everything that anyone in the IDS is to us as if it were the key thing to bring a tourist inspection. So let's step back a little bit outside the borders of your county, so let's not just think about ourselves, let's not have that jil of mine, mine, mine, my county all the time. Croatia will never go together like that, ever. Let's try to get out of it. What if everyone now I'm saying that it should be the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Traffic in New Zagreb I ate from New Zagreb, so it's me, with us and the exit to the freeway and the Randar Station and the Brodar Institute, I think where we'll come in that way if we really start setting things up like that. And at the same time, we're saying that 2,000 new jobs have opened up by momentum like they're just like it's just not like there's some work behind it, so let's say both these governments and past governments in some way. So let's not, in any way, keep Croatia here as long as it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67869	Thank you very much. Time's up. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67870	Regardless of all my reserves to this law, it is not my fault that HDZ will support the text of this law. ... What do you mean you won't? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And because of me, you won't now, so here's to Mesic. I'm so glad you're here to support this law. So you'll support it?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67871	Please, colleague, I'm gonna ask you how you're gonna vote, now no one's asking you that. I'm asking you to keep working. It is next to the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament and the divided time between Ante Jerolimov and Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67872	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Proposer, my fellow Members and fellow MPs. Here it is before us as we have heard the findings of the Proposed Law on Tourist Inspection, with the Final Proposal of the Emergency Procedure Act and for Mr Cain to say that the HDZ Club will not support this law. It is one in a series of draft laws that we were already witnessing last week, resulting from the government's decision to abolish the State Inspectorate or as the Government has mildly called it a transformation of the State Inspectorate. That transformation, or the abolition of the State Inspectorate, took place as we know on 1st January of this year and the above changes are the reason why this bill is before us today, with a view to the fact that it has already been 28 days since the State Inspectorate's end of work then there are clear reasons for the urgent procedure of adopting this bill. And while the emergency procedure can still be understood and it is clear to us that the panic of the ruling due to the resulting instability and void after the abolition of the State Inspectorate, there is nothing we can do to support it. First of all, we wonder why none of the ruling when deciding to abolish the inspectorates asked themselves, and what would happen after the 1st of January. But it's a different story now, it's just one drop in the sea of your unpreparedness and failure to manage government and state. Instead of saving and strengthening the inspectorate and independence of the other inspection bodies and agencies that carry out such and similar supervision, you are here, as we can see by the movement of feathers, what it says has violated the entire inspection supervision in the Republic of Croatia, and therefore we need to urgently cover your indifference, indifference by passing these laws without real debate and analysis. Here's to not prolonging the reasons for the abolition of the State Inspectorate can only analyse the articles of the law and we need to isolate several very bad solutions but still solutions that are acceptable, for example. Article 7 relating to the possibility of temporary carrying out inspection tasks in the second district unit for a maximum period of 3 months. We can also welcome the possibility of appeal against the solution of the tourism inspectorate to the Board of Appeal because there were no such solutions in some of the previous draft laws created by the transformation of the State Inspectorate. What is not good is Article 8 which speaks of the conditions that inspectors must meet for the performance of the work and which does not prescribe the knowledge of a foreign language as a condition for carrying out inspection tasks. Why do I say that? So just a few articles further accurately in article 19 of the bill reads: "If the tourist inspector in the exercise of inspection supervision finds that the customer of the catering service or the provision of services in tourism is charged.../The speaker is not understood./... the charged higher price..., etc., etc., that I am not now reading the whole article. In particular, in Article 15(3), I wonder whether foreigners or tourists are frequent customers, i.e. recipients of services or services in tourism. Why we feel that it is not good, which is why we find it not good that there is no condition for knowing at least one foreign language to carry out inspection tasks. However, these are all minor problems in relation to the powers conferred by this law on inspectors in Article 16 which, in interpreting and implementing them, can cause real confusion. We all still remember the scene very well from last summer when hotels closed in the middle of the season and harassed neither guilty nor due guests, in which case the tax debt of the owner of the facility. The same and similar scenes that certainly do not need our tourism or guests can cause the inspector to block the facility and suspend business during the period of surveillance and during the duration of the inspector himself. Tourism, our guests and no one else, even employers who are under surveillance, must be hostages, so personal subjective decisions or not give God any spite or will. With one precisely undefined or poorly drawn up law or article of that same law, we can do economic damage but also a great anti-reclave for tourism. Namely, if we look at the proposed picture that will be obtained by voting all these laws, let's call them the inspection laws of each of our employers, we'll lead to absurdity. Let us not move from the subject to an example of a catering facility that will in the future control as many as 9 different inspections, which are tourist, sanitary, market, agricultural, labour inspection, labour protection inspectors, measuring inspectors, fishing inspection, tax administration inspectors. If we add to this the fact that each ministry and its inspectors have their responsibilities raises a question, i.e. I'm worried about what it's going to look like together in practice. The proposal for a law that is before us in the first part dealing with the consequences of this law states that the goal of raising levels, quality of provision of services in catering and tourism is one of the basic preconditions of Croatia's entry into 20 leading tourist destinations of the world. So does anyone here really think that the catering service will improve the control of 9 different institutions or earlier mentioned harassing and kicking guests out of the hotel or stopping work in a crowded restaurant because of the inspector's decision? To be clear, we are not opposed to inspection surveillance but rather to the extremely detimulative way in which all of this will appear together in practice. And finally, although it is not a mistake of this law, let me remind you that in this new, whole organisation of inspection services, black labour control is the most common violation in the catering and tourist activities will be carried out by the customs administration in the future. In this example, we feel that this is wrong and illogical. It would be much better and better quality to conduct a tourist inspection in tourism because of a close connection with tourist communities who best know who pays them and who doesn't pay the tourist tax, who reports guests and who doesn't. The rest of the time on behalf of the club will be a colleague of Juricev's.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67873	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Proposer, my fellow Members and fellow MPs. Here it is before us as we have heard the findings of the Proposed Law on Tourist Inspection, with the Final Proposal of the Emergency Procedure Act and for Mr Cain to say that the HDZ Club will not support this law. It is one in a series of draft laws that we were already witnessing last week, resulting from the government's decision to abolish the State Inspectorate or as the Government has mildly called it a transformation of the State Inspectorate. That transformation, or the abolition of the State Inspectorate, took place as we know on 1st January of this year and the above changes are the reason why this bill is before us today, with a view to the fact that it has already been 28 days since the State Inspectorate's end of work then there are clear reasons for the urgent procedure of adopting this bill. And while the emergency procedure can still be understood and it is clear to us that the panic of the ruling due to the resulting instability and void after the abolition of the State Inspectorate, there is nothing we can do to support it. First of all, we wonder why none of the ruling when deciding to abolish the inspectorates asked themselves, and what would happen after the 1st of January. But it's a different story now, it's just one drop in the sea of your unpreparedness and failure to manage government and state. Instead of saving and strengthening the inspectorate and independence of the other inspection bodies and agencies that carry out such and similar supervision, you are here, as we can see by the movement of feathers, what it says has violated the entire inspection supervision in the Republic of Croatia, and therefore we need to urgently cover your indifference, indifference by passing these laws without real debate and analysis. Here's to not prolonging the reasons for the abolition of the State Inspectorate can only analyse the articles of the law and we need to isolate several very bad solutions but still solutions that are acceptable, for example. Article 7 relating to the possibility of temporary carrying out inspection tasks in the second district unit for a maximum period of 3 months. We can also welcome the possibility of appeal against the solution of the tourism inspectorate to the Board of Appeal because there were no such solutions in some of the previous draft laws created by the transformation of the State Inspectorate. What is not good is Article 8 which speaks of the conditions that inspectors must meet for the performance of the work and which does not prescribe the knowledge of a foreign language as a condition for carrying out inspection tasks. Why do I say that? So just a few articles further accurately in article 19 of the bill reads: "If the tourist inspector in the exercise of inspection supervision finds that the customer of the catering service or the provision of services in tourism is charged.../The speaker is not understood./... the charged higher price..., etc., etc., that I am not now reading the whole article. In particular, in Article 15(3), I wonder whether foreigners or tourists are frequent customers, i.e. recipients of services or services in tourism. Why we feel that it is not good, which is why we find it not good that there is no condition for knowing at least one foreign language to carry out inspection tasks. However, these are all minor problems in relation to the powers conferred by this law on inspectors in Article 16 which, in interpreting and implementing them, can cause real confusion. We all still remember the scene very well from last summer when hotels closed in the middle of the season and harassed neither guilty nor due guests, in which case the tax debt of the owner of the facility. The same and similar scenes that certainly do not need our tourism or guests can cause the inspector to block the facility and suspend business during the period of surveillance and during the duration of the inspector himself. Tourism, our guests and no one else, even employers who are under surveillance, must be hostages, so personal subjective decisions or not give God any spite or will. With one precisely undefined or poorly drawn up law or article of that same law, we can do economic damage but also a great anti-reclave for tourism. Namely, if we look at the proposed picture that will be obtained by voting all these laws, let's call them the inspection laws of each of our employers, we'll lead to absurdity. Let us not move from the subject to an example of a catering facility that will in the future control as many as 9 different inspections, which are tourist, sanitary, market, agricultural, labour inspection, labour protection inspectors, measuring inspectors, fishing inspection, tax administration inspectors. If we add to this the fact that each ministry and its inspectors have their responsibilities raises a question, i.e. I'm worried about what it's going to look like together in practice. The proposal for a law that is before us in the first part dealing with the consequences of this law states that the goal of raising levels, quality of provision of services in catering and tourism is one of the basic preconditions of Croatia's entry into 20 leading tourist destinations of the world. So does anyone here really think that the catering service will improve the control of 9 different institutions or earlier mentioned harassing and kicking guests out of the hotel or stopping work in a crowded restaurant because of the inspector's decision? To be clear, we are not opposed to inspection surveillance but rather to the extremely detimulative way in which all of this will appear together in practice. And finally, although it is not a mistake of this law, let me remind you that in this new, whole organisation of inspection services, black labour control is the most common violation in the catering and tourist activities will be carried out by the customs administration in the future. In this example, we feel that this is wrong and illogical. It would be much better and better quality to conduct a tourist inspection in tourism because of a close connection with tourist communities who best know who pays them and who doesn't pay the tourist tax, who reports guests and who doesn't. The rest of the time on behalf of the club will be a colleague of Juricev's.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67874	Thank you very much. First we go to the replicas of the respected representative of Anti-Jeolimov. His esteemed colleague from the club, Josip Boris, has a replica of his presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67875	Thank you very much, President, from the HDZ Club. Comrade Jerolimov, you have rightly warned of the instability of the system. Tourism does not suffer the instability of the system. What we've experienced in the past two years, something that's been going on pretty well in the past 10 years, so before this power comes, we're suddenly witnessing a fall. Only in the tax part of VAT on service activities is 25%, 10%, 13%. It's a shame. Who wants to do business in such a system? It's death for Croatian tourism. We're talking about profits, we're talking about some kind of lifting of parafiscal charges. He boasts here, the minister recently comes to Jakovina and says we lift the parafiscal burdens and then raises the price of water for use, the fee for using water for 100 and some percent, from 1.35 kuna to 2.80 kuna and immediately takes away the total tourism of 400 million kuna. 400 million kuna on VAT with 3 percentage points higher, 250 million kuna and no one. And we're talking about the development of tourism, what are we going to develop in this way? This is a shame that one service that has worked impeccablely for 15 years has led to the fact that now the ministers of life and death of all the hosts. Just object to this IDS minister of yours, you'll close the facility. If it happens to be someone from HDZ, they'll close his facility. He has the authority to send an inspector and find him something to lock him up for, and we witnessed what was going on this summer. It was a shame in Senj to have guests thrown out, returned and re-exposed from the same hotel for some tax debt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67876	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Jerolimov.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67877	Well, my colleague Boric, you're quite right, because in Croatia I guess when everything goes kind of well that Mr. Cain thinks it's going with some inertness, but when hard work is being put into it and trying to make something come to some level to make progress then of course it's not good, and then we have to do something that's not so good. You were wondering who was going to invest. All those who have made hotels in the Adriatic over the past two years and in the hinterland will invest. You know who made it? No one. Because who's going to invest in a system like this where you don't know what tax is today, which is going to be tax tomorrow. The best example you set yourself is where it was already going for sale for the next season and in the meantime, from 10% rises VAT to 13% when prices have already been formed, when prices are on the market, when the capacity has been sold. Of course, under such circumstances, in such circumstances it is difficult for anyone to invest, that is, anyone who takes account and is a serious investor and reputable houses and companies will certainly not invest. But let me correct you one more time. They didn't come back when they were kicked out, they were looking for them on the beach, they were looking for them on the beach. And then they came back miserable again. [[And then they threw them out.]] They weren't sure how much they'd be inside because this owner went to pay for it, so if it was a closed bank, a post office, or wherever he was paying for it, it could've happened to throw them out again. So it's and they threw them out. It's a classic example of how you don't need any commercials. Someone mentioned some money for the commercial here. It is the best anti-reclaves for Croatian tourism that will long, long be remembered.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67878	Dear Representative Jasen Mesic and Replic. Please!
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67879	Thank you very much. Mr. President, you are a very, very dear colleague of Jerolimov. May I? You spoke very well in your presentation and mentioned another fact from which I see further potential danger. [[/The President's incursion: here you go.]] Namely, you mentioned that there would practically be 9 inspections. This situation that you described from last summer, as far as I know, was very responsible for it was also the minister's line with his assistants who, especially one, stood out in the introduction of the order. And now imagine this one gentleman, let's say on Korčula, let's say one catering tourist facility, since you know in our inspection how it's been going lately, everyone, is being equally controlled, etc. Let's say at 10:00 a.m., he gets one of these nine inspections that you've listed, and then the second one comes to him at 12 o'clock, and the third one comes to him, and at 1.30 a.m., and then the fourth one ends, so that they can finish at 3 o'clock and so by 7 o'clock and fail that day to the man, and then that day he can't pay the tourist tax, let's say one 90 thousand kuna. Forget to pay tourist fees which is an additional danger to end up in the state budget, not the one which is not paid, but from those others who pay neatly is an additional danger because there is one possibility that the residence tax becomes a budget income, and we all know that from the residence tax the system is financed. So I really think what you're saying is that it's actually about one additional danger, that we have the permanent so-called. inspection days, and I'm afraid perhaps that what was formerly supposed to have been the exercise of leaving the ship in case the guests were in danger of conducting the first hotel leave exercise in the event of the arrival of the inspection.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67880	By accelerating. Okay. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Ante Jerolimov.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67881	Well, my colleague, Monsieur Mesic, you have explained this in a vivid way from practice. Watch 9 inspections, of course, if all the theoretically possible come to the same day that what you said will happen, and especially because these inspectors have the authority to suspend during their surveillance work at a particular facility. But even worse, in 60 days, in some small places, you mentioned Korčula and various islands, and the case with all the islands has its small places and certain restaurants that in 60 days each inspection will come at least 2 times in some facility, that it is 9 times 2, 18 days and practically 20 days will take place. Because when are they coming? They'll come in the evening when it's full of gardens, when people share dinner and then it'll be 20 days at dinner. Not them at dinner, but dinner will be hitched to Klaric and people will come to dinner at 7:00 and they may be able to get a meal at 10:00. But the bigger problem is the one that concerns tourist communities, working on black, customs administrations that watch who does it and doesn't do it, who's registered, who's not registered for some activity. Was it logical that the Tourist Inspectorate oversees those who were not reported in cooperation with the tourist communities because they are under the same hat, under the same ministry. So it's the same employer, and it's easier to control who's not registered, who's doing some sort of activity on black mostly in tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67882	Thank you very much. And respected colleague Ivan Shuker at the presentation of respected colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67883	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Juričev, look at me these days we hear that there are 40 and some more inspections in Croatia and that it should have all been in the State Inspectorate. That's what those who don't basically know what the State Inspectorate is. The State Inspectorate was a united Economic Inspectorate, and what you were saying was that when someone came to do surveillance, they didn't make each other sound, and that it went on indefinitely. But the biggest problem is when actors are divided into politics. And then it's awkward if the Minister is HNS, and the head of the State Inspectorate's inspection is SDP. How's that gonna work? It doesn't work at all. And then let's go back to what we had before and it never worked. And now we have it. And now you can think even more well of the tourists, you can think farmers they have 18 inspections. They're in the same ministry, though, but 18 inspectors will come from the Economic Inspectorate. And now we, instead of having at one place inspections to do and to suggest to the government what to make to finally have a little economic growth, that we don't have a problem with revenues in the state budget no, we're going to crucify it now. Now you can think while all these inspections pick up their observations and guide them to these economic ministers, and while they figure it all out together, I think we're at least 4, 5 years away from the recession.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67884	Thank you very much. Replica reply, respected representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67885	You're right, you're my colleague Shucker, we haven't touched the subject at all tonight, which is when every one of these inspectors is looking for his vehicle, his administrative secretary and his photocopier and his phone line and his own space. We're gonna switch cell phones, and then we're gonna have to change all that now. But I believe that in a year's time, in an emergency procedure, we will re-enact the State Inspectorate Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67886	We've exhausted the replicas. We're going to a club debate. It is next to the HNS club and the esteemed representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67887	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with Associates and colleagues. Therefore, the HNS Club will support the adoption of the law in question, the proposal of the Tourist Inspection Act, with the final proposal for a law. On behalf of the HNS Club, I can say that we have supported all the laws relating to inspections and reconstruction of the State Inspectorate because we believe that this reconstruction of the State Inspectorate in the way it has been proposed to this and other laws will ensure better functioning and inspectorates and better quality. However, contrary to what we have heard from the opposition that we respect to have its position, its thinking and its approach but obviously we believe that this way of access, which is that the ministry that is responsible for the conduct of certain policies, measures and instruments has and I will not say a repressive part of the way in which both the private and public sectors dealing with tourism are doing their job. We believe that we are right, we believe that this will be more functional, that it will be more quality and what is crucial in the work of all inspections, including the Tourist inspection that will be more professional in the first place and that in this way it will be ensured and that tourists will not only listen to scenes that are not suitable but that they are clear that when they come to Croatia that inspections are doing their job and that they are more sure that their service will be better quality, that they will be at that level and those stars for which they pay a price. And we know that they are not cheap prices in Croatia, we are often also uncompetitive. That the service that is paid and in the catering will be of quality and that the money will also have the value in the service that is obtained. And what certainly raises questions but I believe that it will be harmonised, and that is particularly and highlighted, is the Ministry of Finance and that part of which is carried out by the Customs Administration in the supervision and account and supervision of unregistered activities in accordance with Article 4, that is, Article 9. Customs Administration Act. And that cooperation between the Tourist Inspectorate and all other economic inspectors and sanitarys along with the Special Tax Administration will be functional to obtain quality, which means that when the guest comes to receive the service he pays. That's what I think and the key to the inspection is, and on the other hand, the IRS to charge for everything that needs to be charged. As much as it was thought about whether there were negative effects of those particular situations that existed last year in terms of the collection or closure of certain catering facilities and hotels, it was essentially shown that in one way direct and clear message was sent that there was no more manipulation with neither bills nor services, and that all but the Croatian citizens did not pay the most taxes, in fact those who come to Croatia or local citizens who pay again certain services and do not get what they paid for. The safety of tourists in Croatia, the safety of the service they receive depends on these inspections, and therefore I believe that cooperation and a special way to ensure that the Tourist Inspectorate is very good quality in the application of the laws and those policies defined by the Ministry of Tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67888	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67889	Thank you very much. So you're showing a respected colleague this model as more functional when everything is under the same hat, all segments of hospitality and tourism, including supervision. Then why didn't you fight to keep your residence tax under the auspices of the Ministry of Tourism and not under the Customs Administration? Why didn't you fight that for example? Sanitary inspections at catering facilities are also under the Ministry of Tourism? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67890	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67891	Dear colleagues, I don't know why we should fight for something we don't need. So, the sanitary inspection is about one specific activity and it's also much more quality, it's much better, it's much simpler and it's more appropriate that everything that's related to the charge, from VAT, excise duty to all public revenues including the residence tax be in one place, to be on one record and to be done in the way that's best done and done through the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67892	Thank you very much. Honored representative Lidija Bagaric on behalf of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67893	Thank you, Your Honor. The Honorable Deputy Minister with an associate, so here at this late hour I've given up on the mass of what I've planned to talk about. I think there's a lot to be said about why the state inspectorate was abolished. The fact that we also had an unequal parallel system that was time to even it out has evened out a way for inspections to be distributed by the portfolios or by the ministries, which I think is quite logical, and that is the practice in most other countries as well. So this is one in a series of laws that need to be passed in order to establish an inspection within the ministry. This law clearly states what it refers to. I sincerely hope that no more images will be repeated than last season with the closure of the facilities and I believe that in the future the state budget will be charged more from the activities of tourism and hospitality not because of penalties and fishing. And the SDP Club will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67894	Do the proposing representatives want a closing statement? Yeah. Deputy Minister of Tourism, respected Ratomir Ivicic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67895	Thank you very much. Dear MPs and MPs, thank you for the debate. Here's what I'd like to briefly refer to the comments and suggestions we've received. The structure proposed by this law was actually taken over by the Law of the former State Inspectorate but this proposal by Agent Cain and some other MPs seems meaningful to me and I will forward it to the Minister. Also, the remarks by Agent Cain were at the level of punishment, they were adopted according to criminal law. Article 8 The esteemed representative of Jerolimov Ante really thinks it would be good to stand, to know a foreign language, to regulate it with a rule. Article 16 paragraph 3. Duration of inspection supervision that it may be possible for some misreading to occur here. In our practice so far, we have not seen such a thing, there has been no such phenomenon. If the law following the entry into force of the law is followed by any such case, the ministry will go with an amendment in this direction so as not to allow different interpretations. Unregistered activity is that, therefore, in article 3 of the colleague-in-chief, Branka Juričev-Martinchev stands exactly there with a saying, so the third article that the contrary to the approved decision the inspector can carry out surveillance, that means if someone has a solution for two apartments and the inspector determines or thinks that there is another room or apartment then he, contrary to the decision on carrying out the activity, can exercise control over, yes. Here's what we're going to consider, but he has the right to exercise control of the intended saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67896	I suggest you fellow Members write an amendment and now let it go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67897	On the note that the relatively small number of inspectors in relation to the previous number carried out by the State Inspectorate, they may say that, in relation to the initial proposal of the law, 35 total employees who were taken over from the State Inspectorate were assumed by the final agreement 69. The funds, though, are set at the position of some other ministries but will be secured, they are secured in the state budget at other positions and the first rebalancing will be redeployed. These changes occurred after the state budget was voted. That's pretty much all there is to it. We believe that tourist inspections will be much more effective in implementing all tourist laws and regulations and on the general satisfaction of both state and economic operators and guests who should certainly not feel any consequence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67898	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We'll stop working now. We'll pick it up tomorrow at 9.30. The debate on the text of this law is over. We'll vote when the conditions are met and tomorrow we'll start with point 13. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Fiscal Responsibility Act. Good night! Every good thing! Final proposal of the Tourist Inspection Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 600. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Would you like to make a statement about the proposal? Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that, by a majority of votes, 80 votes in favour of i23 votes against, we have accepted the Government of the Republic of Croatia's proposal to discuss and decide on its amendments Please, the representative of the representative of the respected Ratomir Ivčić, Deputy Minister of Tourism, to plead or explain Amendment No 1 to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67900	Thank you, Mr. President. It is estimated that a better solution would be to regulate the number and headquarters of the area units of the tourism inspection by the Croatian Government's regulation on the interior structure of the ministry rather than by law. In the event that such a regulation is adopted, it shall indicate the need to establish new or abolish structural units. In fact, tourist inspections are yet to begin work and it is possible that effective inspection or rationalisation of the organisational and financial meaning will require a different structure of the tourist inspection unit, which is easier to do through the amendment of the regulation and not the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67901	Thank you very much. I am opening a debate on Amendment No. 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Honorable Representative Damir Caine reported, a pay phone to the respected representative, Damir Kajin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67902	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. First, if I was uncomfortable in the debate two days ago when it comes to this law on tourist inspection, then I apologize to the Deputy Minister of Tourism and the Minister himself, but what exactly is this really about? Article 5.St. 1 voted that in order to carry out the activities of the tourism inspection work outside the ministry's headquarters, internal construction units, tourist inspections in the district units based in Osijek, Rijeka, Split, Varazdin and Zagreb are being established, as well as the number of outposts and self-executors needed. The amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to Article 1 of this Act deletes and remains only what the Deputy Minister has read, that the internal structure of the tourism inspection other than the issues covered by this law, the number and headquarters of the regional units and the facilities in the district units, as well as the indicative number of inspectors and other civil servants, shall be governed by the regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. If this proposal has produced this amendment, then I absolutely welcome it, I have no delay in raising my hand now for this law. Why was I restrained? Because here she was missing what is called a district unit in Istria, this is where Split, Osijek, Rijeka, Zagreb, Varazdin was missing her in Istria. And I was also saying that it doesn't matter if this area unit is going to be located in Pazin, whether it's going to be located in Rasha, Ljižnjan, Tar Vabriga or Medulin. I think that for you, the position Istria has in tourism, that unit must be represented in the area as well. I absolutely agree with the government's intensities to reform the structure of the state administration, I think it should be done and when it comes to health care, what I want to welcome is that just today Minister Ostojic in Pula is launching a public tender procedure for the upbuilding of so-called. maternity care, surely, needs to be reformed and the structure of the social, the MUP, the tax services, etc. but it should be borne in mind that Istria is about 30% of the tourist night of the Republic of Croatia. Regardless of the number of overnight stays in the Republic of Croatia last year has increased at a rate of 4.1%), in Istria only 0.3%, however, Istria achieves about 22 million overnight stays, it is a circus of 10 million overnight stays more than in the Primorje-Goran County or the Dalmatian-Split and understandable that when it comes to the institutions that monitor tourism Istria should not be bypassed. However, if I were to be listened to and the Ministry of Tourism should be located somewhere in Opatija and Opatija is, say, Istria or Pula, Poreč, or some other city. Even if we had a little discipline and quieted down, it would have been far better. It is clear when we talk about reforming the state administration, and then we need to reform God and some tourist institutions, mostly the tourist communities they have in the Republic, there are 305 that have 600 million kunas at their annual level and many don't even know what to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67903	Your Honor, you've given very much reason to state that you are not bound by this amendment. Yeah, yeah, I mean it, so I'm warning you to come down on the subject of the amendment, please. [[/Intruder Cain: How are they not bound? Well, they're all tied up. That's what you think, Mr. President.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67904	I've been trying to concentrate all the time on this particular attempt to keep Istria out of the seat of an institution that is vital to the normal functioning of tourism in that area. All in all after this intervention, I don't think we should have or should have any obstacles to raising our hand for the new Law establishing tourist inspections.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67905	Thank you very much. There are no other interested parties. I am concluding the debate on Amendment No. 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please make a statement. Who's for Amendment number 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Are there any abstentions? There is. I'm asking for a result. He's got everything. I find that most of the votes, 82 votes in favour and 22 votes in favour and 2 abstentions have been accepted by Amendment No. 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number two, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. You can explain. Amendment number 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67906	Thank you, Mr. President. In view of Amendment 1, which proposes to amend Article 5 of the final draft law under which Article 5 will have only one and not two paragraphs, it is also necessary to amend Article 7, paragraph 1 of the final proposal of the law and is therefore proposed to delete the words referred to in paragraph 1 as surpluses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67907	Thank you very much. I am opening a debate on Amendment No. 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting Amendment No. 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 85 votes in favour, 14 votes against, 3 abstentions, have adopted Amendment No. 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and has thus become an integral part of the final draft of the law. We're going to the amendments to the Legislative Committee. Deputy Deputy Minister, Amendment No 1 to Article 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67908	The government accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67909	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 2 to Article 20, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67910	The government also accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-29-0.u67911	Thank you. This becomes part of the final bill. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, before adoption, I must warn that this law, too, requires half the majority of all representatives of the Croatian Parliament in accordance with Article 252. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 84 votes in favour and 18 votes against the adopted Law on Tourist Inspection in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
