ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u88976	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we can start working. We will discuss - Report on the use of pre-accession programmes to assist the European Union for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2013. The report was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Regional Development and European Union Funds, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Here you are, Dr. Jaksa Puljiz, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and EU funds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u88977	The Croatian Government is obliged to submit regular six-month reports on the use of EU pre-accession assistance programmes to the Croatian Parliament at its 16th session of 6 October 2005. The report before you on the use of pre-accession assistance programmes for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2013 shall include key information on the implementation of the 1, 2, and 5 component of the IPA pre-accession programme, and on the status of implementation of the EU structural instruments to the Republic of Croatia under the operational programmes for the 2007-2013 programming period. The report also provides information on activities for the use of European Structural Investment Funds for the programming period 2014-2020. And in the future, we will structure our report, that it also includes structural instruments for the period 2007-2013, for the period 2014-2020, as well as of course pre-accession IPA programmes. The overall state of implementation, negotiation and payment of the IPA programme and operational programmes finance them through EU structural instruments, allow a little more detailed explanation. The total agreed funds of the EU on 31 December 2013 amounted to 559, 47 million euros, or 44% of the total amount allocated to Croatia to be made available to Croatia, amounting to 1.25 billion euros and refers to the time period since the implementation of the IPA programme and includes the allocations of structural instruments for the period 2007-2013, i.e. for the first six months of membership. In the reporting period, end-users and contractors were paid a total of 76.6m euros, so during this six-month period. This amount represents 20% of the total amount paid so far, and that amount represents 371m euros. It refers to the implementation of the IPA programme from the start of the programme. Therefore, a total of 66% of the total agreed amount of all components and IPA and operational programmes has been paid by 31 December 2013 since the start of their implementation. When we talk about the overall state of implementation and spending of funds, we see a continuation of a positive trend from previous reporting periods. It should be noted that, in the light of the comparative data on the status of the contract, payment and availability of funds by the European Commission, the location taken into account for the reporting period in question also includes those additional allocations that you could not see in the previous reporting periods since they were not available. This means that with each new reporting period, the amount of resources available from European funds is being made available to the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, these relative figures, therefore, are not comparable to each other. But when the absolute amounts are compared, then the data for each reporting period so far clearly show a trend which is very positive. In fact, at the end of 2011, the total amount of EU funds was 267m euros, at the end of 2012, amounted to 410m euros and on 30 June 2013, amounted to 506m euros, while at 31 December 2013, it was 559m euros, so on the last date covered by this report. The latest data available before sending this report to the government, from 05 September 2014 say that the Croatian side has contracted a total of 835m euros, so a very significant increase in funds occurred from 31.12.2013 to 05 September 2014. The same positive shift is visible in payments made. At the end of 2011, payments totalled 127m euros were made, on 31 December 2012, a total of 238m euros were paid, and at the end of June 2013. A total of 371m euros were paid at 31.12.2013. The latest data for September 05 says 458m euros were paid. As regards individual components, therefore very briefly, IPA component 1, it includes a national programme, then a nuclear security programme and membership fees for Union programmes. In the context of the mentioned component, annual locations are agreed and the reporting period was the agreement for the 2010 programming year, which was 66.68% of the allocations for that programming year on 31 December 2013, so 66.68% of the allocations were agreed. Further continued the negotiation of... programmes for the 2011 programming year, which amounted to 3.85% of the allocations. Total for the entire IPA component 1 progress of the contract and payment compared to the last day of the previous reporting period, that means 30 June 2013, amounted to 7.5m euros of newly agreed funds and 12m euros of newly paid funds in 6 months. IPA component 2 under cross-border programmes with non-EU countries for annual locations 2007. 2013 and transnational programmes for annual locations 2007. On the last day of the reporting period, the agreement status ranged from 65.8% for cross-border programmes with the Republic of Serbia to 71.29% for the Croatian-BiH programme. The payment of the contracted funds ranges from 69.5% to 74.7%. Contracting and spending rates under transnational programmes, the Mediterranean and Southeast Europe also range from 87.7% for the Southeastern Europe Transnational Co-operation Programme to 96.7% for the Mediterranean Transnational Cooperation Programme, as regards the agreement. As for payment, it ranges from 82.8 to 83.2. The biggest progress is seen in the IPA programme, the Adriatic cross-border co-operation where 13.3m euros were newly negotiated. Component 5, rural development, up to the end of the reporting period in component 5, was contracted a total of 72m euros from the total of 129.9 allocated for the period 2007. - 2013. Total payout so far is 33.34m euros. The funds have so far financed 350 rural development projects. Investment from this IPA component is carried out in the agricultural processing industry, the basic rural infrastructure and other economic activities and activities within the rural areas of the Republic of Croatia. During the reporting period, 4 operational programmes were approved by the European Commission. These are the operational transport programme 2007. - 2013, environmental protection 2007. - 2013, regional competitiveness and human potential development, also the 2007 period of time. - 2013. The approval of these programmes by the Republic of Croatia is made available to additional 449.4m euros from the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund. The total contracted funds for the operational transport programme, ending on 31 December 2013, amount to 79.8m euros, representing 33.7% of the allocations. Of which, 53.6m euros were paid, i.e. 67% of the contracted funds were paid. In the reporting period, we have 10.86m euros in contracted funds, or 30.1m euros in paid funds. On the last day of 2012, in 2013, 64.58m euros were agreed while 31 were paid, I apologize, on the last day of 2012, we had a 64.6 contract status and 31.5 payments indicating that 15m euros were newly agreed in 2013, and 22m euros were paid. Under this operational programme, the most significant investments are in rail infrastructure. Also in the reporting period were issued 3 calls for the delivery of project proposals, one call for a project to modernise railway infrastructure, and 2 for the reconstruction project of the existing construction of the second railway track track on the Dugo Selo-Križevci stock. In addition, 3 competition calls have been published, of which 2 for the project full implementation of river information services on the Sava River, implementation of so-called "Savi" the river information system and one for the project to build reconstruction of the southern coast of Osijek, technical assistance for the preparation of the project documentation. In the framework of... technical assistance, in the second half of 2013, a call for the delivery of project proposals was issued for bodies in the management and control system of the operational transport programme. As regards the operational programme for environmental protection, total allocated funds amount to 96.29m euros, which accounts for 34.26% of the allocations, totalling 40.5m euros from EU funds were paid on 31 December 2013, i.e. 42.09% of total EU funds were paid. For a reminder, a total of 57m euros were agreed on the last day of 2012, and 20.9m euros were paid, which means that this... programme negotiated 39.3m euros in new projects during 2013, and 19.6m euros were paid for already agreed projects. The most important areas of investment are waste management and water management, i.e. water supply, treatment and disposal systems. During the reporting period, tender procedures for two remaining procurements for equipment to complete construction of the Marineština and Kaštijun county waste management centres are under way and a tender for 4 contracts for a project to improve the water infrastructure in Osijek and a contract for the control of the project Disposal System with wastewater treatment devices for the city of Poreč. It has also issued a call for... project proposals for the Vukovar Water supply and disposal system and waste water treatment and project applications have been submitted by the water utility company. A call for the delivery of project proposals for a water utility has also been issued for the project Čakovec Water supply and disposal system and wastewater treatment plant. The operational programme regional competitiveness, concluded with 31 December 2013, was agreed on 65.8m euros in EU funds and 35% of total allocations for this operational programme, and 45m euros were paid. That means 68.5% of the contracted funds have been paid so far. On the last day of 2012, 46.67 was agreed and 28m euros were paid, which means 19m euros were negotiated in 2013 and 17.1m euros in EU funds were paid. Under this operational programme, funds are invested in strengthening the development potential of less developed areas, and in strengthening the competitiveness of the Croatian economy where consumers are small and medium-sized enterprises. During the reporting period, the following tenders were published, a call for the grant of free funds for the development of business and tourism infrastructure, and a call for the delivery of project proposals to increase the economic activity of the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises, then the development of the research structure at the University of Rijeka, and the preparation of supplies of infrastructure projects for the period 2014-2020 for the field of science, research and development. By the end of 2013, 70.6m euros in EU funds were agreed for the operational Programme for Human Resources Development, which accounts for 46% of the allocated funds for the period 7-13. In total, 54.4m euros and 77% of the funds were paid. In 2013 the newly agreed new source of funds under this operational programme was EUR 27.4 million and was paid in the reporting period, respectively in 2013. 20.35m euros in EU funds. Under the Operational Programme for the Development of Human Potentials, projects are financed to improve access to employment and labour market inclusion, support to groups in an unfavourable position, improve human capital and strengthen the role of civil society. In the reporting period... five relating to strengthening civil society. Competitions were opened for the following grant programmes, strengthening social dialogue, strengthening regional and local structures to support the development of civil society, supporting civil society organisations in the area of advocacy and motivation for socially excluded groups, and supporting civil society programmes active in volunteering to strengthen economic and social cohesion. One of the most important indicators of the success of using funds when we speak exclusively from the point of view of the use are data on automatic recall, which is to return funds to the EU budget due to non-contracting or neutrality of funds within the prescribed deadlines. In 2013 as well as in the previous two years, the impeachment of neutral assets was recorded, but in 2013 the amount was multiplely reduced and was only related to the fifth component of the IPA programme, i.e. the Rural Development component. The automatic recall, therefore, amounted to a component of 5,7.44m euros in EU funds. The comparisons for the automatic recall of IPA funds in 2011 amounted to 39.8m euros, in 2012. 17.9 and 7.44m euros in 2013. As regards irregularities, 4 new cases of irregularities were received in respect of opening and closing cases of irregularities during the reporting period. Two cases in component 2 of the IPA programme and one case in the Operational Programme for Environmental Protection and one case in the operational programme Human Resources Development. Finally, on 31 December 2013, following identified irregularities, a total return of EUR 0,88 million was made. Irregularities concern infringements of public procurement rules and non-compliance with contractual obligations such as insufficient incomplete documentation, conflicts of interest in public procurement procedures, unacceptable costs, etc. As regards preparations for the use of EU funds after 1 July 2013, as of 1 July 2013, the period of use of structural instruments under the management and control system of the use of instruments established by the Law in the establishment of an institutional framework began in the Republic of Croatia. During the system's conformity assessment process, the follow-up of preliminary audit findings and recommendations from the EU Agency for the Auditing System, which has the capacity of the audit bodies, has worked to improve the common national rules as a basic framework for the management and use of EU funds, and are based on joint recommendations made and processed by the Agency through so on. manuals on the handling that are mandatory for all bodies involved in the EU fund management and use system. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the The European Commission has informed the competent authorities of its observations and recommendations on the compliance of the control management system for all 4 of the operational programmes referred to in the 2007-2013 period. The only comment that came from the European Commission’s auditor was on the status of development of the information system, so-called ‘the European Commission’. MIS information management system, monitoring and management of EU funds and which... The auditors at that time did not develop all the functionality of this system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The implementation of the European Commission's recommendation was immediately approached and additional development activities of relevant information management modules were carried out in December 2013. The work on the application ended in February 2014, after which the European Commission’s opinion was positively given in April to the assessment of the compliance of the four operational programmes’ implementation systems in 2007-2013, in other words, we received accreditation which implies that we can also obtain feedback from the European Union budget. During the second half of 2013, the system's bodies were still obliged to strengthen their EU fund management capacities to successfully respond to the governance challenges multiplely increased by allocations made available to the Republic of Croatia after entering full membership. During the period from 31 March 2013 to 31 December 2013, 30 EU fund management officials were employed through contractual transfers while 46 employees left the institutions during the same period. During the same period, public invitations to tender for admission to the state service or public tender for employment through which 9 jobs have been opened have been opened. In addition, on 31 December 2013, public invitations to take place and tender for employment through which 12 new jobs have been opened were open. In order to strengthen the capacity of the authorities in the Republic of Croatia, for the first time, technical assistance has been made available to the Republic of Croatia, through which 85% of the EU funds can co-finance the salaries of officials, their education, official travel, means of work and other eligible costs. As regards employment, I note that most of the employment was done earlier in the previous reporting period so that the total net increase in the number of people employed with funds was 140. It is also currently under way to prepare for the recruitment of a new wave of officials for the programming period 2014-2020. As regards activities for the use of European Structural Investment Funds during the period. '14. - '20. The report presents preparatory activities related to the use of European Structural Investment Funds from the preparation of strategic programming documents to activities to establish a new management and control system. According to the multiannual financial framework, 10.4 billion euros are available to the Republic of Croatia in this financial perspective from the European Union budget. Of which, for investment in growth and jobs, 8.4 billion euros, for agriculture and rural development of 2 billion euros, for employment of young people, 66.17m euros, for the Connecting Europe Facility 456m euros and for maritime and fisheries 280m euros. When it comes to preparatory activities in the reporting period, the so-called process continues. programming or drawing up strategic documents. During the first half of 2013, the thematic working groups identified the development priorities and potentials of the Republic of Croatia for the 7-year period mentioned and the indicative distribution of financial resources by individual priorities. By the end of 2013, the thematic working groups worked on further work on programming documents, above all, on the partnership agreement as a roof development document. As you know, the Republic of Croatia submitted a draft partnership agreement to the European Commission for adoption on 22 April 2014, which was returned in August for the completion and is now expected to be adopted very soon. And, of course, operational programmes, the Republic of Croatia has decided on two operational programmes in the period 2014-2020, namely the operational programme competitiveness of cohesion and operational programmes in the field of efficient human resources and the third operational programme relating to maritime and fisheries, so it does not apply to cohesion funds and, of course, to the rural development programme. As far as project preparation is concerned. During the reporting period, a significant emphasis has been placed on the preparation of projects particularly in the framework of the work of the EU Fund Special Working Group. The Working Group focused on monitoring the preparation and implementation of major infrastructure projects that can significantly contribute to the absorption of European Union funds and larger schemes, the allocation of grants for valuable, individually smaller projects. In this respect, the Working Party has initiated the adoption of the conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of 13 June 2103, which is responsible for reporting to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the progress, preparation, implementation of 9 large individual investment projects and 22 grant schemes, which are being prepared for co-financing from the alocation of the structural instruments of the European Union for the financial period 2007-2013. For each of the nine investment projects and 22 schemes, the deadlines for publication of tenders, contracts and implementation have been established in order to monitor progress in the achievement of them in accordance with these deadlines. From a total of 9 investment projects to 11 September 2014, public procurement procedures were launched for 7 projects. For four projects in the water sector, these are large systems Osijek, Poreč, Čakovec and Vukovar and for 2 projects in the area of railway infrastructure. The reconstruction of the railway line Dugo Selo-Križevci and the construction of a new railway line for suburban transport on Gradec-Sv. Ivan Frogno. It is also published, all the necessary competitions for the project from research into development and technology transfer related to the development of Campus, the University of Rijeka. In addition, public calls for allocations for all 22 grant schemes have been made. The following contracts have been signed so far: for the Osijek project, the water supply and disposal system, the waste water treatment device. One service contract and two labour contracts worth 48m euros were signed. For the development of research infrastructure at the University of Rijeka University contract for the purchase of equipment worth 23m euros. For the grant scheme, an increase in economic activity and competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises, contracts worth 30m euros were signed. For the grant scheme, the preparation of infrastructure projects for the development of 2014-2020 signed contracts worth 6m euros and the grant scheme, the direct allocation of funds to the Croatian Employment Institute of the total value of 19m euros. All other schemes are currently under processing, i.e. contracts are prior to conclusion. Furthermore, on the preliminary conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with the aim of monitoring the preparation of the projects for the 2014-2020 programming period, it adopted a new conclusion on 8 May 2014 setting deadlines for the new 16 major infrastructure projects and for the new 13 grant schemes. Of the 16 investment projects currently run public procurement procedures for 5 large infrastructure projects for the period 2004-2020, for one water sector project, it is the development of water-communal infrastructure County, one for the area of strengthening entrepreneurship infrastructure, it is the construction and equipment of a regional entrepreneurship development centre..., one in the area of transport infrastructure, it is the construction of a land-island bridge Ciovo with access roads. These were published two calls for grants: a grant scheme, a modernisation of the system of professional training of teachers and a grant scheme for research scholarships for the professional development of young researchers and post-doctors. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u88978	Thank you, Deputy. We're moving on to the replicas that are five. First came the honorary Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u88979	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. Today is the end of the 10th month, we're discussing something that happened on 31.12. We should today discuss what happened in the first 6 months of 2014 and in projections and forecasts of what will happen by the end of 2014 and of course with projections 2015, 2016 and 2017. However, what can simply be read from these tables, from a billion and 300 million in 2013 we only talked about 559 million. These are the funds we can spend since 2016. Why am I saying that? Because we have an additional 900 million in 2014 and since we haven't agreed everything we should definitely and I underline it by the end of 2013, and in 2016 we will see that Croatia will not be able to withdraw 600 million that have been approved because the Government has not done its job. It's facts you can't escape from.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u88980	Replication response, Deputy Minister Dr. Jaksha Puljiz.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u88981	So this data that I have just presented, relating to the negotiation of projects and grand schemes for the period 2007-2013, when we received this first major allocation of 450m euros, tells us that all tenders are scheduled, most contracts are signed, the rest of the contract will be signed by the end of the year or the first quarter of 2015, and this guarantees that all money will be withdrawn by 31 December 2016. So we can already determine here that there will be no return on funds when we talk about the location in 6 months of 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u88982	A new replica, respected Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u88983	Thank you very much. Mr. Deputy Minister, this is the current time and this year that we are of course most interested in. You said that by 30.9. this year, which would mean from the European Commission's budget to the Croatian budget of 458m euros. However, data on the implementation of the budget show that the aids coming from the European Union and entered the budget of a billion and 500 million kuna, of which 220 are not related to projects, but is the Union transfer agreed during the negotiations. So the budget says that only a billion and 300 or something less than 200m euros are the funds that entered the budget for the projects, for the activities financed from the European budget. You claim 458, so I would like you to explain to me where this difference came from and why everything the Commission paid for Croatia, if it is indeed 458 million euros, is not in this difficult economic situation directed at projects, is not focused on jobs and activities that could reduce it. Where did this difference come from?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u88984	Deputy Minister Jaksha Puljiz answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u88985	EUR 458 million refers to the total amount paid since the start of the IPA pre-accession programme and structural instruments 2, 7, 2, 13. It's a cumulative amount for all the years.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u88986	Third replica, the esteemed Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u88987	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Deputy, you're saying that this report shows how the past year has passed in the activities of preparing strategic documents for the use of structural funds. In this context, you say the European Commission returned the proposal for a partnership agreement in August as a basic document for the use of around 10.4 billion euros by 2020. It was announced that the partnership agreement would be signed by the end of October, but a number of documents on the basis of which the partnership agreement could be based could not be completed. For example, the Transport Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, which should have been defined in the Republic of Croatia, has not been completed. There's already been a lot of talk on that trail about the Peljesca Bridge. Minister Doncic announced a year ago that the construction of the Pelješki bridge will begin in 2015, so since the Transport Development Strategy, which is a document for the operational programme of competitiveness of cohesion, could be financed by the Pelješki bridge, since it has not been signed and has not yet been delivered to the European Commission, is a partnership agreement that you think this is one, another of the pearls of Minister Doncic or will really be able to work within a month, two days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u88988	Would you like to answer that? This is Deputy Minister Jaksha Puljiz.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u88989	So, as far as our deadlines are concerned, we are absolutely within the deadline for the adoption of strategic documents. So, for the partnership agreement, we'll be hearing news back very soon when it's adopted, it's a matter of weeks. And the other thing about the Transport Development Strategy for Croatia is, the final draft is prepared. She's prior to adoption, so both documents go parallel and that's very good. And as for the very beginning of the construction of the Peljega Bridge, it depends on a number of factors, but it is certainly possible that exactly what Minister Doncic said in 2015. Of course, there's a big one, but it's called public procurement.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u88990	Replica Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u88991	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Jaksa Puljiz, during your presentation, you spoke about the capacity and capacity building of local and regional administration units. I am afraid then that Greek and Minister Lalovac must sit down, as announced changes in income tax will kill units of local and regional administrations and have no capacity in the coming year. You have a situation in local administration units or regional administration that some units are exhausted and no longer have opportunities and pre-financing and project financing. Osijek-Baranja County has been a leader for years. You have just mentioned a project that I have been doing for four years, which is a project of purifier and collectors in Osijek worth 72m euros. Therefore, funds must be recovered because 15 kuna is made from the kuna and there is a chance of a construction operation and withdrawal of funds for the Republic of Croatia. But you also forgot about regional competitiveness or incompetence with regard not to what happened last year, but in 2014 to 2020, because we will not all have the same chance and the same possibility of withdrawing funds. Therefore, Slavonia and Baranja and projects from Slavonia and Baranja must be found for them because precisely because of this regional competitiveness, because of the degree of development, we must provide the possibility for all those who are worthy, working, to have the opportunity to reach the means, i.e. that they can participate and implement individual projects, and in this situation and what is predicted for local administration units next year will not be possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u88992	And the last replica of the esteemed Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u88993	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, some clarifications small only related to the report itself. Therefore, the report lacks clear definitions of certain concepts used throughout the document and does not appear to have the same meaning in each context. The notion of the allocation, whether that concept implies allocated funds, i.e. funds intended for the Republic of Croatia from the EU budget. Contracted funds, that notion agreed with whom? With end-users and whether they are only agreed EU funds or agreed project values including their own participation. That's one thing. It's another thing. You mentioned the projects of the railway Dugo Selo – Križevci, reconstruction and mentioned the construction of the new railway station Sveti Ivan Žabno – Gradec. Since you mentioned this yourself, may you be able to give me an answer to the question of what is the second railway Long distance Village Križevci for which I have a written reply from Mr. Hajdas Doncic's resolute minister that by the end of the year this job will be agreed, i.e. Public tender and probably concluded contract and that a contract will also be concluded at the end of 2014 with the contractors for Gradec – Sveti Ivan Žabno. Is this railway Long Village – Križevci – the second rail track disappeared somewhere in the meantime because once the competition was called, and then it was cancelled, and in this report, you no longer mention it in the preparation of the projects. So if you have an answer to that question it's very important and for that end of course the areas of the Crosses continue to hear what's going on with this project.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u88994	The replica corresponds to Deputy Jaksha Pugliz.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u88995	As far as the last one is concerned, the contests are under way. It's about two-degree public procurement. The first stage is done, the second stage is now under way of selecting performers for both projects and St. Ivan Žabno – Gradec and Long Village Križevci and together it is possible that, we hope, by the end of the year, this choice of performers will happen. If not in December, then we can talk about January 2015, but this is already quite convenient. But I only hope that the selection of the performer won't bring those deadlines into question. As far as I'm concerned... Yeah, yeah. [[You can't hear it.]] Second track. As far as these definitions are concerned, so all of this data you have in your report applies exclusively to EU funds. So I'm not talking about my own participation at all. Of course, the total value of the agreed projects is higher, but the report is structured in a way that only says what happens to the funds that the European Union has made available to Croatia, so that the total value of the projects is significantly higher, because it also needs to be added to all the funds locally, i.e. the national participation of about 20% to 25%. As far as the definition is concerned, the allocations are those funds that are really at the disposal of Croatia. So, every single financial year. As regards the contracted funds, this relates to the data where either the funds are granted to individual holders such as the HH infrastructure for individual projects or to the data on contracted contracts for so-called ‘the HH’ infrastructure for individual projects. grant schemes. Therefore, at the time of the conclusion of contracts for users of these grand schemes, that amount shall be considered as an agreed amount. It's also about infrastructure projects. In the case of infrastructure projects, theoretically, so as the European Commission manages these data, we could count these funds as agreed on the very date of the allocation of HZ infrastructure. However, we count them as agreed when they are agreed with that contractor. Because that's actually real.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u88996	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First on behalf of the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the respected Zvonko Milas will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u88997	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. So on this presented report by Mr. Deputy Croatian public, it could conclude that the situation with the withdrawal of funds from European funds is more than good, it is only possible that no one understands why we are getting worse every day. In the beginning, I would agree immediately with what Mr Shuker said that this report, as well as most of the activities carried out by the Croatian government in this area, is late. At the end of October, we talk about something that happened more than a year ago instead of having discussed it here or discussing what is coming to us and what is coming to us, so what is going to happen by the end of this year, or in the years ahead of us. And also in the previous report, what fascinated me, so one universal phenomenon is that the data are always shown differently because of the declared incomparability. So on page 6, we find that the data is now shown in absolute amounts, not in percentages, because they are such that they cannot be compared in percentage terms. I am convinced that numerical data can always be more precise and compared, and it seems to me that it all works out, so let's just say the government is deliberately because the indicators are so bad and that the bigger the problem is to explicitly show them or understand them. When we look at Table 2 where it shows how cumulatively it has been done so far, we see that from 1.3 billion that are to be spent by the end of 2016, at the end of 2013, we have agreed 559 million euros, or less than 50%. So three years for contracts, implementation and full payoffs of over 700 million. I don't know how we're going to handle this without talking about what's coming for the 2014 funding, so 900 million euros to be spent by the end of 2017. Also, in Table 1 which shows how much has been done during this reporting period, we see that it is in the second half of 2013. The Republic of Croatia received 53.6m euros on account. At the same time, 240 million euros were paid from our European budget and 150 million advances due by the end of 2013 did not sit on our account because the system was not ready to work with European funds. So, these 53.6m euros are IPA funds and for them there was no obligation to deposit in the budget and we didn't get anything from the funds. Zero kuna for development, zero kuna for growth, and 240 million kuna for the European budget. I don't think we should stress how devastating that is and that it speaks enough about the ability of the government. On the technical side of this report, looking at it, and since I think the opposition must be constructive, that it must make constructive proposals, I would give one. In my view, Table 1 and 2 should be compiled and read as follows: how much total European funds are available in each individual component to make payments, how total is agreed by the end of this reporting period, so together from the beginning until the end of the reporting period, and how much is the total. How much of this is agreed precisely during this 6-month period and how much is total paid by the end of this reporting period, from the beginning to the end, or how much is in this period. And finally, a brief and clear explanation of why something wasn't arranged, why something wasn't paid so they knew everything. So things will be clearer to whoever is watching a report that is very, very complicated. Of course, this is not in favor of the government because the clarification of indicators that speak of ineffectiveness and slowdown is certainly not welcome. And that is evident both during this reporting period and for the entire term of office. Even it seemed fair to me, we saw on page 5 of this report where the government said that there was a decline of 12.82% of the resources allocated by the European Commission during this period because it was not possible to provide funds for the costs reported from 1 July 2013 until obtaining accreditation, which we know was delayed for reasons bizarre from software to other completely unclear ones. And that maybe a man would understand as well as here the government finally takes responsibility, drop in dynamics almost 13%, maybe they realize that sometimes in some things some things really need to admit mistakes. But, of course, at the end of the report, we see more quickly that the review committee has seen not only how the system is complex but also how it functions, how it works. What a commission! So, I don't think you can ask for justification in the God-awful changes in the commission's mood because the indicators are just for all components bad. And the final balance, I say, that's what I said last time for the whole IPA, we'll be able to see exactly in 2018. However, we cannot help but notice the negative trends in the exploitation of European funds during this government. Looking at the tables, it is easy to see that the whole state is absolutely bad, and let's say the third component, so the operational programme, transport, environmental protection, regional competitiveness, so far is only after a third of the contracted funds, and somewhere around 20 to 25% of the paid funds of the users, or in this extremely important area, indicators are the worst while the best in cross-border cooperation is something that Mr. Deputy was talking about. But we must stress, though important, that the funds are still the smallest. Why is it so I tried to find out in the report, which is why the indicators are like that, but I simply didn't find them, so it might be good for the deputy minister to explain it a little bit. I would like to ask how the project of reconstruction and electrification of the Vinkovci-Vukovar railway line is going. As a result of the report on the period, they accepted that a contract was signed for the preparation of the project documentation, and as it had passed nine months since the reporting period, I was curious about the state of play now, or whether the documentation was finished and when it was moving forward. The system of disposal that the deputy mentioned, and the treatment of the wastewaters of the City of Vukovar worth 47.8m euros, according to the action plan from the negotiations, should have been carried out by the end of 2012, and we see in this report that the call for a project proposal is only being published. Of course, I am interested in all other projects in other parts of Croatia, but I have to ask especially because I think that with such projects, an emphasis can still be placed on this Slavonian end because we know that they are in a more unfavourable situation, especially because of the future that awaits them and all because of the division of the two coins in the region. But now it's not about that, we can do it another time. I also see that projects in almost all components are actually late, the data on this is clear and visible and otherwise, but here is the report. As for future developments on the important topic of preparation of the Republic of Croatia for the use of over 11 billion euros in a seven-year period whose first year is already at the end, only 3 pages of the 125-page document are dedicated. That says a lot, too. So, the government is handing over strategic documents to the European Commission detailing hundreds, or thousands of pages, for which almost one Croatian budget will be spent over the next seven years, and the Croatian Parliament only gets three pages. No one in Croatia is clearly aware of the content of strategic documents, but there will be strengthening administrative capacity, of course in always the current way. In this great unemployment, we know that only for the purposes of exploiting European funds could legitimately be employed in public service. This is how 165 employees were employed in 2013, I believe that in 2014 there is still so much that it brings us to about 300 employees. Of course, all of this is because the commission wants us to do a workload analysis that turns out we need a lot more people in that part of the system because of overlapping two financial perspectives. I keep saying that there are more than 250,000 people in the public administration of the Republic of Croatia and that there are certain people who could be requalified for these needs. Why is it not working to enable the private sector to employ 300 new people, and in parallel with this only the Ministry of European Funds has public procurement for newspaper reading services, so media monitoring of 60,000 kuna, coordination of the archival building of 120 thousand kunas and various similar public procurements. I don't know why at least some of the existing employees don't jump in, I guess the ministry thought it was a way of helping the private sector. Finally, it will turn out that the Croatian private sector can only succeed if services are paid by the Ministry of Regional Development. And for the thousandth time, what about the 2014-20 programme, when will it be approved? It has been announced that it will be, that it should have been in September, that the Commission's opinion should have arrived, but I guess that will come one day. Finally, I have to notice that this entire approach to European funds is quite airy. Namely, there are some tables, the government says it's working great, so I guess that's how it has to say, even though I doubt that they believe it themselves, we say it's not great, that the real situation is getting worse and then we all go home. And the report clearly points to system weaknesses, poor and slow implementation, poor preparation for the 2014-2020 period, there are not enough competitions, and when there are poor qualities that open up room for irregularities and future financial corrections by the European Commission. Croatia is in the process of excessive deficits, in the process of macroeconomic imbalances and has a chance to use European funds, grants to invest in entrepreneurial projects, in local units projects, in scientific research and technological development, and all of this is missing, delaying for the future. At the same time, as a Member State, we are paying funds to the European budget, each month 40m euros and we should have used over 100m euros per month. The government is far from such results, so safe steps lead us to a loss of a billion euros in 2016 and 2017. I was hoping that at least with this report, if nothing else would confess and take responsibility for the delay in accreditation for the dispute and for everything else that was wrong. But either they don't understand it or they think we should be talking about how you're doing something great and not taking responsibility when something's not right. Commendation therefore hides the unhappiness and defeating results, and good use of European funds is important for the growth and development of Croatia, for our future and there is no room for marketing, nor for politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u88998	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First responds Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u88999	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Milas, this report and what you've been saying best shows why the finance ministers are telling this government about the EU as a cost. For one simple reason, we had to pay what we paid, and the resolution ministries, in fact, were determined to prepare and withdraw funds from the EU funds, did not do so. And yesterday's report on the implementation of the state budget in six months passed undetected that out of 4.5 billion in the first eight months, only 1 billion and 200 were withdrawn. And what's very important to say here, because here it's going through percentages, so through real amounts, nominal amounts it wants to blur some things out. Here, if you don't talk about some time, you won't just pull them at a given time. And I repeat, and today I'm going to repeat it all day, because the government is late to negotiate only in the operational transport programme we're going to lose 100 million euros in 2016. That's 100 million, if we want to make these projects, more deficits in the state budget. Is this all that can be financed from this there is a smaller cost and a smaller deficit of the state budget, less burden on taxpayers and let's not be fooled, colleagues and colleagues, and even some of the contracts that Deputy Minister spoke of, Col. Milas, were to be signed in 1st, 2nd month 2013, signed at 11th, 12th month 2013, and here we can talk about 3 projects that are of invaluable importance to 3 units of local self-government, Osijek, Varazdin and Poreč. So, it's 10 months late with the signing of the contract and I repeat, that's why finance ministers in the Republic of Croatia say the EU is a cost, not a profit.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89000	Replication response, Tinker Millas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89001	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, yes, Mr. Shucker, I agree with you. So, what I said, first this report is for the entire public very difficult, very complex, I believe for us Parliamentarians. However, in contact with people who are asking and talking about the European funds on a purely grounded basis and as I would say, the paid way, and they also make it clear that the membership that we have so far paid in the European budget is bigger than what we have withdrawn so far and says everything. So, the government absolutely at this point doesn't know what it does I don't know where we're going to end up that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89002	Second replica, esteemed Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89003	I want to say something about our prejudices over this debate, our myths and our quick conclusions, and we forgot our own resources, either as workers, or as machines where we could do much more without expecting Europe to get us out of the crisis. When I say this, then I think we could run resources, work resources because 300 grand is almost unemployed, and they want to work. Let's say the Imot construction operation, the machines are untapped, and they want to work if we only paid for their daily and fuel, they would tunnel and connect the road, the highway through Knin which we forgot to connect with the rest of Dalmatia and Croatia. We come to a celebration in Knin once a year, not bad, but Knin has lost contact with Zagreb, the metropolis and the rest of Dalmatia. This construction operation and people who are not employed, who would work on minimum terms, could get Croatia out of the crisis, and the expectation of Europe, the European funds, I don't think we will solve the accumulated Croatian problems. I agree with part of the opposition in this critical reference to the presentation of Mr. Deputy Minister Puljiz, but this will remain all over again in words, but initiatives for better tomorrow must come from this Parliament because we are before the people and before the future responsible for working in the Croatian Parliament and in Croatian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89004	The replica matches the esteemed Bell of Milas. Turn yourself in, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89005	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr Grubisic, Croatia is a member of the EU and that money from European funds, these grants, they are simply there and they don't take them, it would be a sin, blasphemy. So something is offered to help us all, our children and our future, and why we don't take it, you figure it out yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89006	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Tonka Ivcevic will speak with respect. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89007	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Before us is the first report for the period since Croatia became a full member of the EU, it is therefore necessary for the Croatian Parliament to amend its conclusion adopted on 06 October 2005 on the link between the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit regular reports on the use of EU pre-accession programmes. This is the first report on European structural aid instruments, and therefore it needs to be in the title. The report for that period shall be submitted under very difficult circumstances, since we have for the first time 3 regulations. We have an IPA that includes key implementation data of the 1st, 2nd and 5th components, we have an annual location for the period 2007. – 2013 with the possibility of using 449.40m euros in European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund within the framework of operational programmes, transport, environmental protection, regional competitiveness and the development of human potentials, which were financed before accession through the 3rd and 4th components of pre-accession aid instruments. We also have a preparation for the use of European, structural, investment funds in the 2014 programming period. - 2020. I would like to thank the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds, which, despite everything said, has given us a very comprehensive and very detailed report in all regulations, and we have a description of the state of implementation of each of the IPA components and each operational programme, including information on the type and number of tenders in preparation, the contract on implementation and final contracts in the summary description of the achievements and results achieved during the reporting period, and the report also contains information on the regional coverage of contracted projects, and to summarise the review of all identified irregularities. The report also contains a description of all activities undertaken in the system accreditation process for the 2007-2013 programming period. The European Commission's positive opinion on the assessment of the compliance of the 4 operational programmes system was received outside the reporting period, we know that it was in early April 2014 followed by the Commission's payment of the advance. On the day of EU accession, the Republic of Croatia was also given the possibility to use funding under the European Fisheries Fund of 8.7m euros. It was a prerequisite for the adoption of the National Strategic Fisheries Development Plan of the Republic of Croatia and the Operational Fisheries Programme for the 2007-2013 programming period. The Operational Fisheries Programme was officially approved by the Commission on 19 December 2013 followed by an advance payment of 25%. The measures aimed at the fisheries sector include the permanent and temporary suspension of fishing activities and the measure of production investments in existing breeding sites. As the report accurately provided us with all data and an analysis by all components of the IPA programme and operational programmes, and further explained by the Deputy Minister, I will only say in general that despite the inability to supply funds by the European Commission, progress has been seen in the implementation of the projects compared to the previous reporting period in which end-users and contractors are paid a sum of 56.65 million euros and 19.20% of the total amount paid on 31 June 2013. In the reporting period in question, 76.63m euros and 20.61% of total paid on 31 December were paid to end-users and contractors. Finally, on 31 December 2013, 66.45% of the total agreed amount has been paid since the start of the implementation. Implementation data on 31st December 2013 show that the percentage of the allocated funds per individual components of the IPA programme or operational programmes ranged from 33.68% to 70.10% and the percentage of the contracted funds paid ranged from 25.67% to 83.52%. Compared to the previous report, the most significant progress of the bargaining has been made in the operational Programme for the Development of Human Potentials. Furthermore, while the same component records the withdrawal of funds, although the recall was halved from 2011 in the last day of the previous reporting period, it was achieved in component five of the IPA Programme. It should also be pointed out here that for the Operational Programme Transport, Environmental Protection, Regional Competitiveness and Human Resources Development in 2013 all EU funds from the 2010 Allocation were used, which were subject to the N+3 rule or there was no automatic recall. If we analyse information on regional coverage at the level of the county of contracted projects, the most successful in attracting grants were organizations from the city of Zagreb with 30.35% of the total amount spoken and Osijek-Baranja County with 10.75% while at the start of Krapina-Zagorska, Bjelovar-Bilogorska and Koprivnica-Kryzeva County with only 1.25%. In total, 78.5% of all IPA grant contracts or almost 81m euros went to continental Croatia, while in the Adriatic 20m or 21.3m euros. As a key problem, the beneficiaries of these funds highlight the deadlines so that the grant contract is on average waited 14 months while more than 11 months from handover to payment of the funds. During this reporting period, we also record positive trends in these problems so that the period from the tender itself to the contract has now decreased to 7 months. As one of the reasons, we see the full lack of proportion of the withdrawal of funds from the EU funds in an unequal administrative capacity for fund management as well as unequally developed development agencies that should be key to the withdrawal of EU funds. It is therefore necessary to strengthen administrative capacity at all levels of the smallest municipalities and cities, if only by the efforts of all stakeholders will we be willing to attract funds. More assistance and financial support are needed for local self-government units to prepare projects because they have no administrative or financial capacity to do so themselves. That is why better communication is needed with both state and county levels and greater support from county development agencies for users in smaller local environments. There is a need to further strengthen administrative capacity, increase the number of people in the system and support the development of the private consulting sector to help all potential users of EU funds on the ground. Finally, a few words on the activities carried out for the EU programming period 2014-2020. During this period, great work has been done to develop a programme for the use of funds from the current budgetary framework for the period 2014-2020. During this period, Croatia from the European Structural Investment Funds, so-called The ESI funds we will meet more in the future can withdraw 10.7 billion euros. The government submitted the draft Partnership Agreement to the European Commission, which is a roof strategic document for the use of the European Structural Investment Funds for the period 2014-2020. They set out the main areas and strategic objectives and the expected results of the investment and are based on operational programmes. The Commission expects Croatia to develop development strategies for more areas because one of the main criteria for project approval will be the measurement of results. The Commission is asking for an advance statement of what it wants to achieve with a particular investment so that ultimately the desired results can be compared and achieved. As a very extensive job has been done to develop a partnership agreement and all consultations with the European Commission have been carried out, we hope that it will be accepted at the end of October or here is what the Deputy Minister said as early as November this year. And finally here's the SDP club, of course, will accept this exhaustive and well-developed report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89008	Thank you. The esteemed Branko Hrg came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89009	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, you said the report was done under difficult circumstances and contained a series of data. I'll add contains a series of confusing data. Because if you compare some of the data in this report and look at the same data on the official websites of the same ministry, you'll get different numbers. And then you got a little bit into these, a little bit of a bit of a bit of a percentage. I'm going to say that there's basically the biggest problem in these percentages because it's very difficult to figure out exactly what these percentages are. I'd say even if this report were really exhaustive, it really took a lot of effort and it was first done and there's no evil intentions in what I'm saying. But I wrote down a sentence in the morning that a reference in the city that works on pre-accession projects for the European Union told me this way, how to make a report with very many irrelevant figures and not say anything. So this isn't my line, this is really one professional, valuable person who's realised a lot of projects so far and came up with it. So just like my colleague Miles used to say here, there's a whole series of information that's confusing, that can't be compared, and it needs to be combed, groomed, and more clearly written, so that we can all be more clear. At least I don't like people who work on EU projects that I've been talking to, and it's not a very clear report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89010	The reply to the replica of the esteemed Tonka Ivčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89011	This was a really complicated report because as I said we have three regulations, actually the report refers to two because the third one we will only have in the future. But I think it's very clear because it's done exactly by all of the IPA components. We have a specially processed component of 1, 2 and 5 and previous components 3, 4 through new operational programs which each is specially processed and transport and environmental protection and... potential and regional competitiveness. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's very clear from the charts that everything's done. Of course, it's hard to compare the data because we have those pre-accession 3., 4 components that actually translate into structural programs. And it's hard to compare because this is the first time we've had a case like this. I would also say that the Republic of Croatia has actually entered the European Union in the most difficult circumstances that no country has had before. So we entered the European Union when we have a new financial perspective and we haven't had time to adjust, we had to adapt to the existing financial perspective and prepare quickly for a new one. All the countries that entered the European Union in 2004 were only 2 years old that the meaning of the framework was then framed in the existing financial perspective of the European Union and for 2 years to prepare for a new one. Croatia did not have this and really in the circumstances when we have three regulations I think this ministry has done an extremely large job.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89012	Thank you. Dear Ivan Grubisic and Damir Kajin are registered for the club of independents. Damir Cain, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89013	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament, Deputy Minister. If today were a referendum on Croatia's entry into the European Union, I am afraid that even fewer people would come out on that referendum, what came out on the same floor a year and a half ago. If we hadn't redefined the constitutional majority, that referendum certainly wouldn't have passed. That stunt with the Constitution or the Constitution cost us dearly. This decadent referendum every week can be thanked to the constitutional alchemy. If it hadn't been for that constitutional alchemy, if it hadn't been for those acrobatics with the Constitution, we wouldn't have entered Europe. I am for the European Union but with one significantly different redefined programme. If people knew how the funds from Brussels of abuse and I say they weren't their assets but ours in my opinion would certainly be a far smaller number of people going to a referendum than it came out. For example, abuse of these funds is when Europarliamentaries enter HYPO banks' rooms in Pula. If people knew that it would happen, they wouldn't even go to the referendum. And now how's that abuse going? How much is a square meter paid in the city of Pula's most ordered rooms? 93 squares, 2 euros per square, 15 kuna or monthly 1392 kuna. The explanations of the city of Pula as possible are simply scandalous, embarrassing, humiliating, once word insults common sense. They say we give everyone, associations, etc., space at the same price. Yeah, you give at the same price, but not everyone at the same location, especially don't give at that price to anyone...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89014	Comrade Cain, let's do this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89015	It's more expensive, Mr. Vice President, in Pula than this 93 square-square office.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89016	Comrade Cain, I'd like to warn you a little bit. Please go back to the subject. I understand your need to deal with... Pull but it's not an object. Go back to the subject, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89017	I'm not counting, I'm just explaining why you're misusing funds. It simply offends me because if this practice continues, all these other projects will be put into question. And there is no calculation if I open page 91 where we are talking about a graphic representation of the geographical distribution of the project under the grant scheme of the operational programme regional competitiveness until 31 December 2013 and then we see that in this part of the County the Istrian region is represented with only 0.82%, the City of Zagreb with 27.1%, the Carlovack County 3.36%, the Krapina-Zagorje County 2,13%. Come on, there's someone worse than Istria County, it's Ličko-Senj County with 0.2%, Međimurje County 6.2%, Osijek-Baranja 9.1%), of which only Sibenik-Kninska has 11.4%, Zadar County 1.7%, Zagrebačka 6.4%. And I'm simply offended by one of these practices where one is claimed, and the other is simply done. Finally, by 30.6.2014, we paid 537m euros. I said that Osijek County is the best after the City of Zagreb and Sibenik-Knin County to withdraw those funds. Osijek-Baranja 9.1%), Istria 0.82%. So by the end of the 6th month 2014, we paid 537m euros, we withdrew 575m euros, so 38m euros we withdrew more. But the problem is you know what, which gives us priorities in some way to Brussels. If we had used these 537m euros ourselves for priorities in the Republic of Croatia, the recovery of the economy, a far bigger and more useful thing would have been made from the way we were allocated 575m euros. We dig, they give us equipment. They get a job, we're usually subcontractors etc. And what else is going on here? Going one step further, Europe is now asking Croatian fishermen under quotes to destroy 40% of their ships. Imagine us destroying 40% of our ships and offering us 4.76 million euros for that. So that's, say, 35 million kuna. Every ship, and we know we have 3700, is worth between 100 and 250 thousand euros on average. Some are worth a million, two million euros, okay. Europe says so we want to protect the Adriatic, and I say with this 4.76m-euro refund you want off our must to remove our fishermen. Their scraping, scraping, just can't go through. I know that some older fishermen who don't have an heir can't go to sea anymore, etc. to give up their ships, but the problem is that the real supervision of the Croatian state institutions is missing, so we have a situation where the Italians did not catch us in the canals, but we simply did ourselves harm. Let's go a little further. What does this report refer to? On page 2, the use of pre-accession EU assistance programmes for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2003 includes key information on the implementation of the first, second, fifth components of the IPA programme and operational programmes Transport, Environment Protection, Regional Competitiveness and Human Resources Development. Or to be even more precise, what's specifically referred to is best visible when here we have this first program. It's a membership fee, or whatever it is, some atomic energy out there, something like that. So what do they give us the money for? Support for reform of criminal proceedings, development of probation services, strengthening the capacity of civil society to monitor the implementation of the EU acquis, a project to support Roma, ok, the General Administrative Procedure Act, technical assistance to the development of selected statistics areas, support for strengthening the capacity of veterinary, sanitary, border inspection, support for the management of animal diseases, strengthening the market for the component of the fisheries sector, surveillance of the blue border, etc., etc. They're paying nuclear here I see security on the side of the 23rd report. The demining programme in the war-related areas of ok, building capacity to combat sexual exploitation and sexual abuse of children, and on police assistance to endangered victims of criminal offences, etc., etc. I agree that it is necessary to bring the state administration in line, the local self-government also, regionally aligned with the one not in Brussels but with the one in Austria. But here you can see what money is spent on, huge money, something that is not a real priority. I will not say that the harmonisation of these legal norms does not matter, but perhaps at this point in Croatia is something else crucial. It is crucial to help the economy, how, by producing, exporting, help small businesses that currently employ about 50% of the people of a million, say 300 or 400 thousand people, as employed in the Croatian economy. It is not a priority to build administrative means of these capacities, or we can do so with our own resources, and with EU funds, we should build something else. On page 33, there is talk of supporting civil society organisations to develop partnerships to ensure the sustainability of political reforms in post-accession Croatia, the construction and equipment of the Centre for the Training of Guides and Training of Official Dogs, ok. Refurbishment and equipment of the PN BUSKOK premises in Osijek and Rijeka and that is fine, etc. For example, the 42nd page discusses improving the quality of life and social integration, nature protection, the environment, improving the availability of services in communities in the border area, etc. What is certainly a good thing that happened among other things is the water supply system in Osijek for 170 thousand kunas for the equivalent of about 50 million euros, and for the circulation of 50 million euros, the drain system in Poreč or it will gravitate 15 if 15 000 people. On the one hand, 170, for 50 and so many million euros. On the other hand, 15 000 for the same 50m euros. When we talk about traffic, it's mostly about railways. Okay. And an arrangement of the coast on the rivers. But there are no shares here when I talk about the railway, the Buzet – Pula shares, railway shares or Lupoglav – Bršica as well as the order of the port of Bršica. The railroad that arrived in Pula, and now don't take my word for it during the Austro-Hungarian construction of the arsenal, today the Uljanika came when that railroad came? Perhaps 130 years ago, to this extent, it was devastated that soon it would not be being driven by trains. And in order to be able to do something about that railway, we need to clear the port of Pula, or the port of Bršica. There we even have a free zone, unfortunately neither this zone works nearly as well as it should or as others do. Environmental protection, quoting Marinščina near Rijeka, Kaštjun near Pula. We'll see where we go with certain harmful substances, etc. etc. I was talking earlier about regional competitiveness, in the fact that the County is Istrian once again I'm going to say that in this reporting period it pulled 0.82%. Lika-Senj County is only worse than us 0.2%, Zadar 1.7, Sibenik-Kninska 11.4%, and Osijek-Baranja while Mr. Bubalo was mayor there 9.1%). So, Europe is the conclusion that I keep making, so far it has not given us any kuna, but Europe is just paying back our money. A huge part of this money that comes back to us through technology, through these administrative programmes, is going back and forth again for or towards centres in European countries. However, clearly how time moves away or escapes us may be of some benefit from Europe, but then we will have to simply reposition ourselves within the Republic of Croatia. When I listen to my neighbors today just six miles across the border, let's say in Slovenia or Italy they're not very excited about Europe. But I'm saying there's no other one for us, but we'd have to get the funds back to where and where more concrete use not for these administrative capacities. Okay. And that's what we need, but for that we need with our membership funds or I don't know what, some nuclear programs and something like that. Let's say they don't finance programmes to export to Europe, how to sell our products on the European market. It doesn't matter if it's Milan, Strasbourg, Brussels, Paris or Berlin, how to get our banks back, etc. etc. And when we remember what we have left to Europe from finance, from THT, from the good part of tourism, from banks, then Europe with Croatia has profited greatly. But I support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89018	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. The first came from the respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89019	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleague Cain. There's really a lot of data being presented in your presentation, but let's start from the beginning. The first referendum and constitutional provision that there are no exit quotas, therefore the quota is not set. That's what we know whose work it is and who set it so that even today when three people would go to the referendum if two were to be for the referendum was successful. So, the flood of the referendum is completely reasonable, and it is decided by the constitutional provision introduced right now for the EU's entry vote, which is sad and embarrassing. Secondly, it's a good thing you noticed that for Poreč and Osijek there are the same 50 million euros for water, or water draining in those two cities, right? So for 15 grand and for 170 thousand residents, the same amount. And what I'm very interested in is a chart on page 91 from which you have provided data on the percentages of each county that have withdrawn funds for regional development. So I wonder how you recognized the colors in this black white technique and recognized how that Osijek-Baranja for example pulled 9%, Zagreb doesn't know how much and Istria 0.82% when all the black white counties are on this chart, and in the text, it doesn't say anything. Here, explain that to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89020	Now we'll hear the explanation of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89021	First of all, I'm not a daltonist when it comes to colors. And how did I recognize it? It's very simple. Open your computer and you'll see this plate, let's release the materials, and you'll see what it looks like. But if you're curious about how I recognized myself, and I asked the deputy minister, and then he was nice to me with his glasses or with his eyes, he simply said how much we pulled those funds. And once again I'm going to say Istra pulled 0.82%, you pulled in Slavonia 9, not in Osijek-Baranja County 9.1%), Sibenik-Kninska 11.4%, etc., etc. 27% pulled the City of Zagreb, which means most. Although Bandic is being burdened by something but the fact that he was convincingly the most successful, he or his city administration. But we're not going to go into details right now. Now, when we talk about the Constitution, or the referendum. So we all know, I don't know how you, Mr. Representative, voted? Against? Okay, I voted for it. We all know it was a deal between the opposition and the authorities out there in 2011. And we all knew by then that there was no change in the Constitution that the referendum would simply not pass. But it is also a fact that we forgot to change the Constitution once more, and now we can only conclude that this acrobatic with the Constitution has led to these tsunamis of a referendum that will cost this country dearly. And that is why I would ask the ruling majority and the opposition when we agreed so nicely once in 2011, to change the Constitution because otherwise we are not going to have a good time. Why can't he do it anymore? If we could do it once, we could do it another time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89022	Thank you very much. Second replica, the esteemed Kresimir Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89023	Thank you very much. Namely, my fellow Caine, I congratulate you for coming to the battle because I have spoken to the committees on several occasions on pages 26, 62, 104, 110, it is impossible to read without further explanation of who the leader is. I was afraid that, I must admit, it was intentional because the Osijek-Baranja County was indeed successful and it will be safe in the coming time. Because looking at our first regional development agency in Brussels, which was the first to prepare projects so far, a EUR 212 million project has been implemented. And it's certainly for congratulating people in the agency, as well as all the managers working on that project. But you were just comparing Zagreb and Osijek-Baranja County, it's like comparing David and Goliath. Therefore, the Government must give everyone the same chances and the same opportunities, and in particular help the undeveloped, and here especially with a view to Slavonia and Baranja because they will not have the opportunity to multiply their resources in the coming years because we are exhausted as well. The PPDS is being abolished, and there is no possibility that it is right through regional development that it helps these units of local administration to get at least a minimal chance in relation to the developed regions of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89024	The replica matches Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89025	True, it is not possible to compare Osijek-Baranja County on the one hand and the City of Zagreb. So if by no other means, not only for financial capacity but also for the fact that the City of Zagreb has about 800,000 inhabitants, and your county if I'm not wrong about 330 thousand. However, what offends me is Istria has 208 thousand inhabitants like this, without, say, Lebanon and we withdraw 0.82%, and the City of Zagreb with 800 and some thousand inhabitants 27.1%. I could figure out that they're pulling not 1 to the 4, let's pull 1 to the 8th, but not ratio 1 to the 27th. It's something that just insults me, or more 1 to 30. Because there's 27.1%, and we're pulling 0.82%. I can only congratulate you once again on the success that you have simply achieved in your mayor's term, or the mayor's pardon, yet do not blame me now, in withdrawing these euro funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89026	Third replica, Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89027	... Instead of socializing, we're promoting the social. [[The speaker subsequently turned on the microphone.]] And these 300 thousand unemployed, I think the majority of them are on welfare and that the state gives them certain contributions that they fill their cafes with, and they don't work with. Split's waterfront if you pass from 8am to 22pm full, cafes are full, young people are there, but no one wants to do community service. All those who would be offered community service and refuse should be removed from the social community. People just need to learn how to work, and that's what we have inactive people in the active age, and I don't know if there are any countries in the world that have so many unemployed and are in crisis. And we don't know what we're going to do with them, but we're going to get these people out of retirement to fill up our jobs, and we're leaving them on social services, and we're spending on them. Therefore, the Croatian Parliament would have to find a way to get rid of these socialities, to introduce socially beneficial work and those who do not accept it lose their social benefits and lose any contributions. Croatia is a less and less processed country, more and more abandoned fields and Croatia is an unrelated country.../The speaker has been excluded./...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89028	Turn on the microphone, you're off.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89029	I would mention here, here I told Žuta Lokva and Rijeka which is of strategic interest, but also Knin is a strategic interest in the development of Dalmatia and the connection of Dalmatia with the metropolis, with northern Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89030	Thank you. Here's the answer to the replica from the same club, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89031	Mr. Representative from your mouth to God's ears when it comes to Yellow Lock. To be clear, I am for the EU, but I am that these priorities are defined differently. For example, the bridge Ciovo, the Peljesac bridge, the stripes that are listed here or the railway from Buzet down to Pula, or from Lupoglav to Bršica. What's interesting is these tables as much as we are, how much is paid on 31 December 2013. So for IPA 1 membership fees, 135.8m euros were paid, for this IPA 2 is co-operation with non-EU countries, so we received 8.99m euros or 9m euros in circulation, for transport 53, for environmental protection 40.5m, for regional competitiveness 45.8m, for the development of human potentials of 54.3m euros and for IPA 5 33.4m euros. So we paid for the membership fees or we got 135.8 million, and for all the development projects, I'm counting and cooperating with the neighbors in 195. So that's one ratio of 195:135 million, now you should calculate, so 60:40.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89032	Last replica, the esteemed Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89033	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Cain, you said that Europe actually gives us nothing that just gives us back our good work, which is true, it's just that the problem is whether we know how to bring back ours and whether we're giving back enough of this, or whether it's still the addition that can be additionally withdrawn and done. I have to say that your comparison of Poreč and Osijek didn't exactly lie to me, I don't see any argument or reason why you should compare it now and say I don't know that Poreč may have pulled too much money. So it's about the drain system and the purifier, I don't see the reasons, probably the experts who did the project both in Osijek and in Poreč assessed it well. It's still a tourist place. I would prefer that I was in this report, that my city was in this report, which should also be withdrawing money, just in no way come to order, that Croatia's waters finally dissipate and for us the contest, even if more than 10 million kunas of Croatian water money for the town of Križovci has already been invested in it. It would be better if there were a lot more of these projects. And as for the county, you mention percentages in the county, so cross-border cooperation in most cases recognises local self-government units as partners. And it might be a good idea that this report, at least it was listed somewhere in the municipalities and cities as much as any of the projects from cross-border cooperation have been exploited and how much money has been received. Why do I say that? I'm saying because some of my data disagrees again, you said you would accept the report, so we disagree on, say, cross-border cooperation between Croatia and Hungary. There were about 50 million, half-half of our use from the Budapest office says it's almost 100%. We can't exactly compare it here in these tables.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89034	The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89035	Yes, I will do it again and it seems the same to me, because I keep representing this thesis, I repeat that Europe is still giving us nothing at this stage, but only giving us back our priorities and still giving us priorities. We dig and they deliver technology. When we talk about Poreč, I'm not sorry, I'm sorry, for example. that Poreč did not withdraw not 50, that he did not withdraw 1 billion euros. I'm sorry. E, but I think he could choose a different technology, a more efficient technology because 50 million euros, 15 to 20 thousand inhabitants, and 50 million euros in Osijek or those devices are being joined by 170 thousand residents. What was I gonna say? That with those 50m euros, maybe only 15 thousand in Poreč could not be solved, I didn't say that technology was bad, exceeded, etc. We had some presses about it, some knowledge different but let go, but we could have connected half of Istria, not just one city that would ultimately be an incomparably greater effect for all of us. And what bothers me in some way is that Europe is asking Croatian fishermen to destroy 40% of their ships and then they offered to pay us 4.76 million euros for it, and one million is worth 100 to 250 thousand euros. We in the country, thank God, have 3700 and I know that some will agree to this..., to scrape these in Europe and Brussels to say, but I think that very carefully and carefully, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89036	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HNS club, the respected Marijan Skvaric will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89037	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. So now that we are going to discuss the report on the use of... the EU's assistance programme for the period 01/07 to 31/12/12, it is a little bit of a problem that after these discussions that were before me and a lot of replicas, I am truly even more convinced that what it says in this report, and I can say that it is really good, quality,... it has been made, supported by many arguments, that, above all, it is a great task for us to read this report not once, but a hundred times, and that we really learn what these are, above all, EU funds, which are pre-accession funds, and what is all that awaits us in this time from 2014 to 2020 in this time when we use these funds. And indeed, here, I have decided that I will once again read to you and emphasize everything that this report says, to remember and to know how we should use it and to be much more specific in the debates, and not to be able to say it openly, we are beating up the plan of straw. First of all, since the entry into full membership from 01.07 to 31.12.2013, Croatia has been given the opportunity to use funds from the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund. A total of 449m euros are foreseen for this. These funds may finance projects financed prior to accession through the 3rd and 4th component of the pre-accession assistance instrument. They're IPA programs. Since the implementation of the IPA programme... is 418m euros, and only the period in question has been presented by the European Commission at the expense of the national fund 53.61m euros, representing 12.8%. During the reporting period, projects worth 53m euros were agreed, 31.12 were completed, 36.45% of the total agreed amount was paid from the start of the implementation. ... The amounts paid to the programmes ranged from 33.68 to... % of IPA's exclusion so that total allocations of 1254 million euros were agreed on 559, that means usability of almost 45%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we need to learn and see through a detailed review of the implementation of IPA pre-accession assistance instruments and operational programmes. It is primarily the first component and the IPA programme, which is to help transition and strengthen institutions. And this relevant component of the IPA programme is intended to build institutional capacities, and the projects of the procurement of equipment, the provision of services, the implementation of works as well as... the funds relating to 6 sectoral areas and the reform of state administration, justice, freedom, security, the internal market and the economy, agriculture, fisheries, safety, food, veterinary,... sanitary supervision, cohesion policy and work and last, energy, transport and environmental protection. Of course, national programmes and nuclear security are covered in this section as components. The second component of the IPA program, it's cross-border cooperation. The IPA component, another component, is an important contribution to regional development activities aimed at fostering the creation of cross-border networks, partnerships and development of joint cross-border actions and building capacity for local and regional self-government to manage EU programmes, as well as preparing to manage future cross-border cooperation programmes within the EU Structural Funds. Through the second component of the IPA programme, three types of programmes have been provided... cooperation and that is cross-border cooperation programmes with neighbouring Member States and programmes with Slovenia, Hungary and IPA Adriatic cooperation. The second component is the cross-border cooperation programme with neighbouring countries and not EU member states. These are programmes with Serbia, BiH and Montenegro. And the third component, these are transnational cooperation programmes, Southeast Europe and the Mediterranean programmes, of which... this programme... has a minimum of 3 countries, of which one country must be from the EU. Third operational program, that's traffic. These EU funds have been allocated to the operational transport programme for the period 2007 to 2013 and amount to 236m euros. The fourth operational program, it's environmental protection. The operational programme is financed by an EU funding of 281m euros. The fifth operational programme, it is regional competitiveness, and for this programme total allocations of 223m euros for this operational programme. The sixth operational programme, it is a programme of human development potentials, and for that part, funds amounting to 152m euros were allocated. The seventh component of the IPA programme, it is rural development, shortened IPAR, where the potential users for... funds and sub-programmes... and to the extent 101 where the users of the agricultural holding, are listed in the register. Measure 103, these are trades, companies and cooperatives, also in the range of micro-small... companies... less than 25% in state-owned property. You can also... companies with less than... employees or with an annual turnover that does not exceed 200m euros. To measure 202 we have..., these are local action groups which conclude with the paying agency a grant agreement from the IPA co-financing programme... Measure 301 units of local self-government, cities and municipalities that can use these funds up to levels that have up to 10,000 inhabitants. Measure 302 can... all legal and natural persons including micro-entrepreneurs who are in the VAT system 100% private or up to 25% state-owned. And now it follows interestingly, all that this programme and this period of report includes and I think if you followed, you read for sure is that it really covers a whole series of activities that serve to develop our society. Now let's see what the conclusions are for this budget implementation of what it was. First of all, the fact is that there is a positive trend in payments, more than 20m euros compared to the previous reporting period. The fact is that high contractual rates are also reached that are regularly above 90% of the allocated amounts. Only the 5 IPARD component has achieved slightly less resources compared to the previous reporting period, but we are still interpreting the complexity of the programme itself. When I read it, all the measures that are quite wide and all those users in certain restrictions are the problem of using these funds. What we can also point out is that there is still a relatively small number of detected cases and irregularities. What I would specifically mention is that we have a return measure that has only... million euros for one value, this other can be administrative adjustments and repairs so that we can really say that what we are doing regardless of how we learned how to implement programmes and projects. And here I would point out the good geographical distribution of using projects around the county, but here I would mention that each county did not have the same opportunities because it was only up to them to take advantage of any opportunities. When we talk first of all about the IPA component of cross-border cooperation then we must nevertheless consider that certain counties had to use more opportunities. For example, Slavonia could use cross-border cooperation and projects with Hungary, Serbia, BiH and Montenegro, while, for example, the Varazdin County could use projects that were only between, above all, the county of Croatia and Slovenia, so we need to know a little bit and see that someone has multiple higher amounts and opportunities to apply each individual programme until someone had it. And what maybe anyone had less in that relationship of funds that were delivered and allocated to them is a lot more... who has a much bigger globality so he didn't end up using it, not talking about how those funds were exploited. Whether they've been used for some developmental components or used for some things. For example, you get funds to build a football stadium or spend those funds on your entrepreneurial zone or municipal infrastructure, it doesn't matter, so we're surprised that someone spends a lot of money, gets money, and we're still talking about a small degree of development or a low level index are in that part. Strange, where did those funds go? And basically a conclusion and a question, and what happens next after a report like this? So every report when we read it from it we have to have certain conclusions, goals, learn something better that those mistakes that eventually are not to be repeated. First of all, I would mention that thematic working groups identified the development priorities and potentials of the Republic of Croatia for the aforementioned seven-year period. The following operational programmes are set out in this section, namely the operational programme in the field of competitiveness and cohesion, operational programmes in the field of human resource efficiency and operational programmes in the field of technical assistance. It would be good to list who is in Table 50 once again all the programs and resources we have available. These are primarily the promotion of energy efficiency and renewable energy, and the preservation and protection of the environment and natural resources, which are objectives 4, 5, 6, 3.5 billion, strengthening the competitiveness of the economy in creating innovative and competitive business, the research environment of 2.6 billion euros, increasing labour market participation and improving the quality of the education system 1.3 billion euros. Sustainable and modern transport and network infrastructure 1.3 billion euros, reducing poverty and actively fostering the social inclusion of 1 billion euros, strengthening administrative capacity and supporting quality and efficiency, efficiency of the public administration... million. A total of 10,076 billion, it's a tremendous amount of money for an economically exhausted country. A beautiful word has been exhausted, I would say earlier about the economically stolen land and I think it is a very chance for us, but in all of this we have to demystify the funds, which is how European funds will not in themselves launch the entire Croatian economy, we will not employ people in our own way, reduce debt, increase economic growth. So what I'm saying is, let's not use the European funds as an alibi for our inadequacy and our incompetence. European funds are also the best form of decentralisation. All these projects and programs start from the base, from municipalities, from cities, from counties, from institutions and from us that we know that we are able to use it. And if good was said here in the debate, perhaps we should discuss examples of good practice. I can tell the city I run we used more programmes and all EU funds projects from the CARDS, from the PHARE, from the IPA, the IPARD and now we're ready for all these structural cohesion funds. We have these projects that are ready, but we know many to say that we have projects of several hundred million kunas. What does that mean to have you ready? Create an elaborate where we enter a wish list? It's nothing. When we show the building permit and solve all those applications that should have been completed before, that is the program and the project that when they are opened, and always the programs are opened, we can use the way to install it in development, above all, our local administrations which are the basis of development then and all of Croatia. Really, with that message that everything really depends on us, we're not looking for an alibi for someone else to blame or something else to do. The HNS club, the Liberal Democrats will accept this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89038	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First came the honorary Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89039	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My dear colleague, I think you've done something inadmissible first of all, you've hurt all the MPs involved in this debate in your finding that when you take a critical look at this report, it's about beating up an empty straw. Is it for you to beat up empty straw to suggest that in 6 months last year and during this year we have paid for membership fees in the European Union 5, almost 5.5 billion kuna and that we have withdrawn from that membership fee or we would say almost nothing symbolically. Is that for you to beat up empty straw? Is it possible to beat up empty straw to speak and point out in the best way to the rest of the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia that it is unacceptable that we had a few months ago, we sent three operational programmes to the European Commission and then we reduced it to two operational programmes overnight? And why do you think we are one of the few countries that has not yet received confirmation from the European Commission about the document that we sent her in the 4th month of this year on a partnership agreement? Is that the beating of an empty straw? It's not just an insult to the MPs, it's a question of whether you even know what you're talking about. It's not enough to go out for a pay phone, read and quote the text that we've all got and not say anything that will contribute to this government changing what's wrong. Because our debates aren't just about being critics, but about showing it's wrong with our debates, change it. Because you represent all citizens of the Republic of Croatia not only that parliamentary majority. And say we're beating empty straw and we're just pointing to what's devastating for all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, I ask you to keep in mind what kind of words we use.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89040	We will hear the answer to this replica by Marijan Škvarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89041	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I can tell and you can see it's starting to work. Indeed, you have now discussed this report a little more concrete, more concisely, than the previous discussions we have heard or not. On the other hand, what you also said about whether I know what I'm talking about. So I ask you how many times did you sit down at the table and take the pen into your hands and fill in a specific application for the European Union funds. The 16 we spent in our city, which I practically ran and worked with, wrote, glued stamps and carried to our city. So I know exactly what I'm talking about. Among other things, what you said about signing an agreement, a partnership agreement, for your information from 28 countries of the European Union with 18 signed 10 of them have not yet been signed among them is Croatia. So we can't say that we didn't know that and that we're the only ones in it. What the deputy said is absolutely everything is in progress, of course we would all like it to be right now but what depends again depends on us being ready at the local level and not taking everything out on the government or anyone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89042	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89043	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Skurić, I do not view this report with as much optimism as anything the government does in the part of the use of both these programmes and structural funds. You yourself have said that Croatia is so far one of the 10 Member States that have not signed a partnership agreement but it is not good on the one hand and on the other hand that we have not brought any other strategic documents that are the basis for the creation of the partnership agreement itself and then operational programmes that follow from this partnership agreement and which will enable more than 10 billion euros to be withdrawn. By following these reports for 3 years since this government you will see that in part of the operational programme relating to environmental protection, only two regional waste management centres, Kastijun and Mariščina, Bikarac has been completed in Sibenik County and at a very high stage of completion, and we are not talking about it. But you know well as well as the mayor and as mayor of the city, the Republic of Croatia has made commitments to close all illegal dumps, open dumps, that we will build 18 regional centres by the end of 2018. Now, I'm asking you if there are any optimism that we've done three so far during that former HDZ government that we haven't launched funding for new waste management centres, and that's our commitment from the signing of the Treaty of Accession to full membership in the chapter... the environment where we made a commitment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if we don't, we're gonna pay for the foam just because we didn't do those things. Therefore, this report shows in the section relating to environmental protection, and what our obligation was, we did almost nothing or rather say very little.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89044	Marian Škurić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89045	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Yes, I agree with you here, first of all, that with a high dose of optimism we have to look at because if we're pessimistic, we all look black, then first of all we Parliamentarians, there's no progress. We're the ones who had to pull but of course we have to be realistic. Realistically, I agree that there are 10 billion euros ahead of us, so it is our primary task to exploit and install it in the development of our country in a way that all the things we have signed to fulfill. Yeah, the biggest things are dumps, there's sewers. And it all says if we don't do it, we'll pay for the pens. We have a case with both Slovenia and others where it is unfortunately done. And that's what I agree, too, is that there should be as little politics in concrete things as possible, and we all get involved in making all of those strategic documents that we still lack, bring one consensus and go to get those funds. Just experience, the same thing I wanted to point out, that there are too few people in Croatia who, I can honestly say, are still many of you colleagues, capable, willing to use these funds. We need all the resources we have, even from the outside to take and involve it. In my opinion, human resources are not a cost, they're quite an investment only needs good and quality management and work and I think it's a possibility for us to take advantage of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89046	Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89047	Thank you very much. Namely fellow Skvarić, it is not the key to reading the report, but the key is to withdraw the funds and I think most of them are enough once to read and know this report well. It's important whether it's bigger in or bigger in P. I mean the paid-and-retired fellow Skuric. In fact, when you say we're beating up empty straw, I agree that some of you are beating up empty straw, but this is a very serious report and very serious moments are for the Republic of Croatia. It is important whether we have negotiators or copyists and it is important in the partnership agreement what will be written for the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, we're not among the 18 countries that signed it, but we're among those 10. I hope we won't be the last to sign this agreement. Believe me, the Croats are capable but we don't all have the same chance. I repeat again, it is not the same in Osijek-Baranja County or the City of Zagreb. Osijek-Baranja County today has 2.8 billion kunas of European Union projects ready, but we will not be able to implement them without participation and power to have the opportunity to participate with these funds in participation for European projects. So we don't all have the same chances, and the people in this House are very much talking about these problems and not beating up empty straw. The empty ones who increase unemployment, which increase the duty of the Republic of Croatia, who do not adhere to Plan 21 and those who said that God gave them a dry hand if they do not give funds for Slavonia and Baranja. Not to give money, but these days they say that God gives them a dry hand if Croatia is in charge of Slavonia and Baranja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89048	Marijan Škurić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89049	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Yes, once again I am really pointing out, precisely because the seriousness of this report is very important for the development of the Republic of Croatia we all need to know, above all, parliamentary representatives, every detail of this report. And what is said is to be read, to be repeated is the mother of wisdom, so that a hundred times you read something will come to you that you may not know at all. And every grain of knowledge will be more than 1 billion maybe kuna or may be and a million kuna is already an advantage, what we won't need from our budget in all that part. But I still disagree with you whether we have the same chance or not. The chances we have absolutely all the same, just whether some possibilities are more or less of any level. For example, what you said, that we need to solve obstacles, we need to solve problems. We mentioned that resolving the pre-financing of projects how, in what way, also increasing the professional and financial capacities of units of local (regional) self-government, the issue of external consultants, strengthening the administrative capacities of the ministry, which is very important, respecting deadlines due to the long-term duration of public procurement procedures. These are all problems not only about this report, and yet we get certain indications, we have to act under other legal conditions and laws to solve and that we all have virtually equal chances. We still have a lot to talk about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89050	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89051	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague, I know that as head of local self-government, you are successful in withdrawing funds from European funds, and I have to tell you here, because I come from a small town that works very well, but we're not in the same position. We're not in the same position because, say, you could have used the measure of 301 IPARD, and my city, the town of Križevci, couldn't use that measure because someone in the rulebook made it stupid. I'm not talking about this government right now, I'm talking about that previous government and the ministry, but this one hasn't changed that. And today we can't do that and we point out how many cities in Croatia have a ring of villages around them. So in the area of the town of Križevci lives 10 thousand people in the ring of the village around the city and I couldn't use any program of measure 301 and I can't today. And all we need to do is change the rules, which is in our hands. Maybe this is one suggestion, actually, and it's also a suggestion for the deputy minister to see it a little bit to make something like that. But what's important is you say the report needs to be read more than once, so it's clear then, and then you say that all areas didn't have the same opportunities, and the percentages are listed inside based on not the same possibilities. You can see that it's not true and that it has confusing data. And one of these confusing data, you were just mentioning percentages, the percentage of contracts per component ranged from 33.68 to 70.10% and payments 25.67 to 83.52. What's he saying? It's like one grade, there's 30 students, they all have grades 2 to 5, only 27 have 2 and one has 5. The right percentage is 40, something percent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89052	Thank you. Replication response, Marijan Škurić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89053	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. First of all, when we're always talking about some indicators of absolute... amount then we can go to some extreme... however we analyze it we won't be smarter because someone can achieve 100% growth from 1 to 2 and one of some 1,000 and then to 1010 achieved 1% of the growth. Let's just say for comparison, let me show you what the relationship between absolute and relative amounts is. But we're going back to what's going on with equal potential and potential. We even in the north, here you are also successful in that part, with less resources when we talk about the IPA program you could only use IPA cross-border cooperation with Hungary, we say only with Slovenia. Great colleagues from Slavonia could use 5 of these resources, so Hungary, Serbia, BiH, Montenegro and some other projects that were just for their area that we couldn't use. So someone who has used very much in smaller resources then is talking about success in that part. When we talk about component 5 of IPARD, I said that really in that part was the biggest problem because we've changed it several times, not now with this government but before, about percentages of state property, the stakes, and that's where we've kind of lost ourselves. With the IPARD program, I'm using up to a million kunas from which we make money for a purifier. We did it, and we actually did it. But there are other advantages. Let's say we could all use measure 202... This appropriation is intended to cover: [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'm the founder of one of those... and we are among the most successful in Croatia, we have received the means to act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have already received the first project from the Environment Protection Agency for all our members who are 11. So, the potentials are ahead of us, and it's up to us if we know how to use them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89054	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89055	Thank you very much. My colleague Skvarić, I didn't expect you to say that for those of you who are critical of this report you will say that you are beating empty straw, but you said that we know how to prepare projects. The results and the report don't exactly show that. Please tell me one EU member country that pays more than Croatia and less withdraws funds. Just tell me one thing. When it is, you said that growth can't even be based on, so of course it can't be based on growth in the use of European funds, but damage occurs if we don't maximise the withdrawal of funds from payments. There's damage, negative effect. And the reporting methodology is irreparably wrong and also harmful. This report actually doesn't reveal but covers, it doesn't report, it doesn't shut up, it doesn't create a picture, it actually distorts the image. Nowhere does any data so manipulate as data on the use of European funds, and in fact the effects are very modest, unfortunately very modest. A huge gap between potential and accomplished is the biggest problem. And those responsible for the use and withdrawal of funds are whispered as if they were not Croatian ministers with modest results, but as if they were Ministers of Poland. In reality, withdrawing funds from EU funds is an example of how the state is ashamed. But it may not be the minister's fault. Maybe it's the software, maybe the air conditioning, because he's connected to things that aren't connected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89056	Replication response, Marijan Škurić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89057	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I agree with you there, and unfortunately, it is not very much in favour of us, which is that we are really manipulating the data very much as it concerns the EU funds. Anyone can emphasize something that fits him at some point or hide something in these extensive data not just this report that I absolutely consider to be a good methodology that's written here. You can learn a lot from him. If you don't, what you just said goes to the Ministry of Additional Information and then you get a complete picture in that part. Let's say one manipulation that was the same, which is hard to say why we didn't do something in time. It's like we've been waiting for a year for the paying agency to activate. We've lost all year. Why and where and why, I wouldn't go into details right now, it's too little time. But what you said, though, whether to name a country that now gives more than it gets, but we need to understand that this is practically a year in the EU, that this report for the first, second half of last year, and all the other countries have been 10 years, so in 2004, 10 years when they were in the EU. Yes, indeed I was in Slovenia, I was in Poland, Austria, Germany is really this experience that I have asked others to teach me to know what to prepare when we join the EU. They all had the same problems in their first years, they all had the same problems. But then in the second, third, fourth year, they were able to apply a lot more resources if they were well prepared. So it's up to us again. I don't think we're much worse or worse than other countries. However, what we have said is a large, constant growth in the application, i.e. the amount of these EU funds. But again, let's not judge everything. It's not the Ministry's fault. Let's do projects on a basic basis, teach each other how to co-operate, there's no competition. I think it could be a benefit for everyone if we use these funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89058	On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, colleague Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89059	Dear Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, Your Honor, What do you want me to do? How this debate is primarily motivated by the desire to point out what is wrong in order to fix it for the benefit of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU has achieved one of the strategic goals of the Republic of Croatia, and it is uncontestable that EU membership has brought about a number of changes, but also a number of opportunities, above all, that citizens expected the possibility of a significant economic recovery and development. And when we talk about the funds and this report, then it is known that since 2007 the Croatian Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance has been at the disposal of just over 150m euros a year. By entering the EU, of course, we have come to the position of using the possibility of a multiple increase in the availability of EU funds. Thus, in the second half of 2013, there were 450m euros in cohesion policy instruments in Croatia, and nearly a billion euros were available in 2014. This amount is projected for growth from year to year, so by 2020 it would be year-on-year, as the allocation is said, and I will say, what is at our disposal should reach 1.2 billion euros. These amounts are also an opportunity for the entire Croatian society but at the same time a challenge and commitment for all those participants in the process of using these funds. And what do we have now? It has been almost 16 months since the Republic of Croatia became a full member of the EU. Croatia's entry into the EU has indeed been followed by great expectations but also by great uncertainty that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will eventually bring to this great community of European peoples. It is no secret that Croatia has been shaking hard for years, and unfortunately it is becoming more difficult and more difficult to deal with the economic crisis, living worse and worse, and the previous and current authorities have not shown up to find a solution to getting out of this crisis, and it is precisely in this light that Croatian people and all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have begun to seek salvation in some way or at least to expect that rescue in the opportunities that enter into full EU membership in Croatia, which is already mentioned the possibility of using for us the huge funds available to us. However, these funds are not self-inflicted. In the EU, when it comes to the resources available to each member in full terms, the accuracy of that saying is that there is no free of charge for the grandmother either. For the use of available EU funds, it is necessary to fulfil a series of strictly prescribed assumptions among which not only the existence of completed projects but also administrative capacity but also the existence of strategic documents without which the EU does not give to anyone or to Croatia. And that we are masters for if we do not completely ruin and it is at least the maximum self-complication of realisation 100% chance proves these 16 months of full membership in the EU of which Croatian citizens are not only not expected to benefit themselves but it is true that this membership costs us more than we have received from it these 16 months. We are today discussing the report on the use of EU pre-accession assistance programmes for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2013. The review of this report is in line with the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to report regularly to the Parliament on the use of EU pre-accession assistance programmes. And in this sense, it could be said that this is a routine item of the agenda at the session of the Croatian Parliament. However, only the report as a report is on its 127 pages including those last two contributions full of statistical data, tables, charts, sometimes and in a meaningful respect of completely unrelated and unsuspecting sentences and we find Mr. Deputy Minister and incorrect data in tables like those in Table 50 on page 123. where those who did this did this did not even add up all the sections well, so they showed you the wrong sum. See, then, when it comes to using resources from structural instruments. It's as if this report was written in principle when it's already gotta be done, so let's get this business out of the way, write a lot, but preferably a little bit of an understanding. And if all the problems were in a series of these sometimes difficult bureaucratic languages written in text and more or less accurate or incorrect table data then we wouldn't have much to worry about. But what we need and must worry about is the fact that we are still only discussing the use of EU pre-accession funds, so from the time we were still a candidate for an EU member rather than a full member of this community. And yet there is no word about what is at our disposal with the use of funds that are now available to us as a full member, which belongs to us, but for which, unlike those conditionally said free pre-accession funds, we are now paying a well-expressed membership fee. It is therefore clear that when we talk about the funds in this report, we are talking about the funds that we had available before our official entry into the EU, and these are the funds that have been made conditionally known to us as free of charge. We are talking about funding from the programme in 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010, and we have been paying membership fees for a year and a word about these funds. So, since we joined the EU 16 months ago, we are paying and not small money, and the funds that we have withdrawn in these 16 months have been miserable compared to not only the paid membership fee, but especially the funds available to us on paper. And there can be no one more responsible for this than those who bear the obligation to create conditions for their use, and that is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, especially the Resort Ministry but also other ministries. In order to justify the fact that in 2013, the Republic of Croatia paid a billion 805 million and 213 kuna EU membership fees, that another 2 billion, 274 million, 437 thousand 56,06 kuna, and that by the end of the year we have to pay another billion 331 million 312 million 501 kuna. So a total of 3 billion again this year 605 million 749 thousand 558 kuna. And at the same time, we are still talking and using only conditionally said free funds from EU pre-accession funds, not the one for which we pay a fat membership fee. For a year and a half of EU membership, counting from 1 July of last year to the end of this year, we will pay membership fees, so 5 410 884 771 kuna, and we will use almost nothing compared to that in these years and a half. No one can justify doing it later, because even in later years, we have these resources at our disposal, we've lost a year and a half. This is what you really need to know. Well, we could use these funds from pre-accession funds anyway without paying membership fees, but the one for which we pay the membership fee we have to withdraw because then we will, in general, so much for our membership in the EU. The behaviour of those responsible in the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not only unreasonable but irresponsible. And that's why we have to point out what's wrong so that what's wrong doesn't change. When it comes to EU regional policy and what is particularly important for us in Slavonia and Baranja, the issue of the level and dynamics of regional differences in the EU has always been and has a particularly important place in its political framework. Out of the interest of the EU, I will also remind you of the fact stemming from the Lisbon Treaty, more specifically from an EU-wide operating contract, with a whole head, chapter 18 dedicated to "economic, social and territorial cohesion." And I will recall Article 174 of that Treaty, which says "To promote its overall, coherent development, the Union develops and implements its actions leading to strengthening economic, social and territorial cohesion. The Union shall, in particular, seek to reduce inequalities between the developmental levels of different regions and the lagging of regions in the most unfavourable situation." In order to achieve these objectives set out in Article 174, Article 175 of the same Treaty states, among other things, "The Union supports the achievement of these objectives by means of action carried out through the Structural Funds of the European Investment Bank and other financial instruments." And Article 176 states, "How does the European Regional Development Fund help to correct greater regional inequalities within the Union by participating in development and structural adaptation of regions whose development is lagging behind and transforming industrially lagging regions?" I purposely quoted to remind you of what we pointed out and in the debate on the interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the end of 2012. At that time, we were called loudmouths, and right now, for two years now, it shows regrettable how right we were. You can also see from the report on how many people have the capacity to withdraw these funds. It's the shortest time for the loudspeakers, and right now, for the past two years, it's been showing regrets how right we were. You can also see from the report on how many people have the capacity to withdraw these funds. In short, the EU's regional policy aims to reduce the economic and social differences between regions and EU member states, and this is if it is important for anyone then it is for Slavonia and Baranja because we have been in the EU funds for years and years, and the previous and present have no understanding for the needs of Slavonia and Baranja, we have put all hope in EU funds as an instrument in implementing a European regional policy aimed at developing support to undeveloped regions. And the team no longer puts the most resources available at risk again and hits exactly the most underdeveloped regions and there is a special hit on Slavonia and Baranja. Regarding your statement, Mr. Deputy Minister, that the Republic of Croatia has adopted two operational programmes, then it is important to say that it is not exactly true, I remind you, because we had originally three operational programmes, and now we have reported to the European Commission two operational programmes. And I ask the question where is and why has the operational technical assistance program disappeared overnight? Is he carrying significant means too? The clarification that he has entered into the other two programmes is not clear enough but is not sufficiently reasoned. All in all, not wanting to spend here are unnecessary words on dry or incorrect, understandable or even more incomprehensible figures and the data in this report should clearly tell the Croatian public that EU membership is costing us more than it currently benefited. I hope that we are all aware that this must change because the opportunities that membership gives us are enormous and sin is not to take advantage of it. The government's relationship with the citizens of the Republic of Croatia is extremely harmful, but also devastating. If we pay expensive membership fees and we get less than that, then we're ultimately impoverishing the state. The former government has poored us with a robbery, this one impoverishes us with incompetence. They went through with what they shouldn't, but they did, presently with what they need and don't do. It's a sin and a sin and a sin and a sin. Therefore, if this will help the government break out of sleep then the debate on this item of the agenda makes sense and is not beating up empty straw. But if the government continues to do what it does, then there is no need to discuss it more than to change the government. As for what she did wrong, the change has been made both because of what she does or does not do, this power needs to be changed. The time to fix things is getting smaller, but hope dies last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89060	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89061	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Buric, I agree with everything you've said. Really very thorough and reasoned. Because we're all talking about funds, but the truth is that few people have had the opportunity to feel the concrete effects of these funds in our small communities except maybe some larger urban ones. When we see how the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds is doing, Croatian citizens rightly view the funds as a duo cheater. They were one of the main arguments of cost-effectiveness of EU entry and were to satisfy the citizens' wish for the EU, and it turned out that the inability of the current government to take advantage of this possibility of European funds, this thinking of Croatian citizens changed the opposite, and indeed today, Croatian citizens have a different idea of what the EU meant to us. Because yesterday we talked about budgeting in six months. When you see the realisation of the Ministry of Regional Development in the first 6 months, which is 20% of what they have, 745 million kuna, when they spend 150 million kuna in 6 months, you ask the question of who they help to achieve what they are meant for because good people, able, have been replaced to introduce those who have yet to learn, but time is running through us and every day we realize that this opportunity becomes untapped for us. And that's why I said yesterday, and I repeat today, it's better to be slapped by the truth than to be kissed by a lie. Because that's exactly how people experience this story about our opportunities and about EU funds at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89062	Dinko Buric, reply to the replica. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89063	All right, I've got to turn up my voice then. So it would be all right if what is happening wasn't really tragic for all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia with so much desire, but I said, there were both uncertainty and skepticism when they joined the EU. But even with those who were skeptical, the desire to enter was expressed because we hoped that everyone, if not known by our authority, might be helped by someone third. There's no one there, you have to take care of yourself, if you want things to change for the better. And then when we point to what's wrong, then it has to start listening. Well, the alarming fact in this report is, here's one of the few understandable sentences in this report on page 119. That 30 employees were employed in the period from 31 March 2013 to 31 December 2013, and 46 employees left the institutions during the same period. Now I'm asking you, we're talking about that part of the administrative capacity that is one of the preconditions for using these funds. Projects, administrative capacity and operational programmes, therefore strategic documents. We don't have strategic documents yet, and we've been a member for 16 months, operational programs, waiting for Mr. Deputy Minister by the end of the 10th month. Here, by the end of October, how long will this October be for the government of the Republic of Croatia? And third, we have projects, and that's for a colleague of Skuric's. We have projects, it's just, I'll tell you later on, but we don't have what it takes, what the government was supposed to provide. Strategic documents, not to mention fiscal capacity to withdraw funds. We don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89064	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89065	My colleague Buric, I think we can recapture your debate on the government's work before, only now we have proof that it was true and it's crucial. With all the projects being negotiated, it's late on average for a year, and if you're late with the contracting of projects,...you'll lose money in some time period that you have to use until then and then. So, I was already talking about a project to drain, clean up the wastewaters of Poreč and Osijek, which were agreed with a month later. The Vukovar that was scheduled last year, practically they made an invitation to tender for documentation without talking about water supply and disposal projects, Bjelovarko-Bilogorska County, Koprivnica-križevci, in Novi Gradišca, Đakov, Vrbovac, Krapina, in my Velika Gorica, Samobor, Dugi Sel, Virovitica, Vodice, etc., instead of completing negotiations, they have no idea what will happen, without saying that the key problem in funding from European funds, is that you must basically provide funds sooner and later. And who is able to negotiate everything together in a situation like this in Croatia to secure funds and create certain projects. So the key problem is, and that's not said now, it's been said 6, 7 years ago that Croatia lacks administrative capacities that can make projects that will be accepted, which will not be rejected because someone wants to do it anyway. And that's what you can see from this report no matter how much someone tries sometimes when it fits the percentages, and when it fits the nominal amount, it shows that we're not doing anything. I repeat, and I will say this all day, Croatia with this report confirms that in 2016 we lost 600m euros that will simply not be negotiated.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89066	Thank you. Dinko Buric, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89067	That's right. 5.5 billion kunas or whatever million euros you want, we've lost in the last year and a half. We're talking about the funds that were available anyway, and we need to discuss them, too, so that, because they're still at our disposal, but they didn't cost us anything, and now we're paying for the funds we're not withdrawing. And when we talked about unequal possibilities, then it is precisely that the purpose of European regional policy is to reduce the differences between developed and undeveloped. Today we see and confirm the accuracy of our interpretation quotes from 2 years ago, that what is happening is exactly what will help Zagreb the most. We are not jealous of Zagreb, but there is already such a big difference between Zagreb and others, and the purpose of these funds is to reduce these differences. And what else can I do now than, behold, I am pleased to respect Mr. Puliz, but to remind him of his doctoral dissertation, and his mentor was his current minister and vice president, Mr. Greek. Then in 2009, while he was not in Vlada he wrote one thing, however he turned, Slavonia and Baranja were the most underdeveloped, and the city of Zagreb was the most developed part of the Republic of Croatia. A number of analyses show that the city of Zagreb in almost all indicators of the level of economic development takes up 1/3 of Croatia. Almost Zagreb has turned into a monocentre economy with dominant participation. And in conclusion, the increase in investment directly contributes to GDP growth on the demand side while on the side of the offer the increase in investment ensures a growth in capacity for future production and states as arguments, this is what you wrote in your 2009 dissertation. This is on page 92. And when we pointed out this, don't use funds to equate some and Zagreb draws funds, but give to the poor and Međimurje, and to us, and Dalmatia, and to all who are in trouble to reach Zagreb, then you said that we are the loudspeakers. We're just talking the way we talk, you know, but unfortunately the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89068	Thanks, buddy. Time. You have more replicas, so there will be opportunities. Goran Maric, replica. Thank you very much. Comrade Buric, when you mention the minister, is today on the agenda of the state budget and there is no finance minister to react? Mr. Minister, with all due respect to the Deputy Minister, he never showed up, and today he would have to be here except for the current clock, and not for us, but for his president's sake, he must be there. You said that from the time we got in and out of this year, we were going to pay $5.4 billion, and we didn't withdraw and we're not going to pull anything back. We're not the only ones who paid 5 billion and 400 million kuna, we're in debt to pay those 5 billion and 400 million kuna, we're paying huge interest on that debt and we're not withdrawing funds. What is invaluable and irreparable damage, and we all view it as nothing is happening to Croatia. And the withdrawal of funds depends only on the ability and index of use of funds is actually the index of the ability of the Croatian government, the index of the ability of Croatian society, or the index of incompetence as it turns out by all these indicators. And how wrong this report is methodology, so imagine, and you yourself said, prepared projects for EU funds in the same reporting period and withdrawing funds from pre-accession funds. So who's going to put an end to it? How can it be compromised at all? Or agreed projects in 2013 and not said when they could have been agreed, were they supposed to be agreed perhaps in 2010? or withdrawed funds in 2013, and some agreed projects have been withdrawn? According to those in 2010 or 2011, they are certainly not according to those in 2013. This was purposely done so that the real efficiency of the Croatian Government on the use of funds could not be distinguished...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89071	You know what I and my other colleagues are really trying really to get ready. This 127-page document I've had to read three times so that something, like you're getting ready for your exam, to get something and every third page twice to understand what the writer was going to say. And then when I started to control some more data, I only mentioned that plate on the 123rd strip, Table 50. And what is even worse is that it is about the data that we have sent to the European Commission, the main priorities of investment in the European Structural Instrument Funds, for the period 2014-2020 described in the Partnership Agreement, and the sum is not good. Well, they'll laugh at us in Brussels and so much about the report. I'm now pointing out this may be fixable, maybe it's right there, but it's not true here. It's not 10 billion and 76. It's 10 billion and 40 if you want exactly when you add it all up. But now, interest, an excellent question that no one's talking about. We are talking about the funds where Europe will participate from funds of 70, 80 depends on how much in... and for our share to raise we have to raise the loan, but the interest we will pay on that loan is not an acceptable cost in that. Europe doesn't admit it, it goes to the burden of ourselves. That state should have planted its back and told you municipalities, cities, counties we will if anything else help to co-finance the interest you have to raise at the bank that you have to have for your share. And Mr. Puliz was at the presentation, and unfortunately, he's always pushed to fight the windmills, but that's true. And when we asked, remember, Mr. Deputy Minister in Osijek, that's where I asked you if interest would be an acceptable cost. You said he didn't know, and we could have applied in two years to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89072	Thank you. Shimo Djurdjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89073	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Buric, I support your debate on behalf of the club, you spoke of errors and the system and the government, etc., but you have not touched one important question in my opinion, which is why during this past period it has come to this that very little or almost nothing has withdrawn funds from the EU. In my view, some work would have been complex or less complex made successful if good preparation were important. We as a state did not have a good preparation, and especially those small municipalities, small towns did not have professional people to make projects. They had to pay someone. And as this job is done, we should have used the experiences of those countries that have joined the EU to use their experiences and such an expert in my opinion does not wonder how much it costs. He's the one we need to pay, educate our people to welcome the job that's been waiting for us. I'm asking you colleagues who are the heads of the municipalities, the cities, the county who helped you? To me when I was the leader down there, no one, as I managed to figure it out. And the central state had to help those small ones who do not have expert field personnel through the counties and larger cities to do the job and through the counties to run for projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89074	Dinko Buric, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89075	Is this about the cause and the guilt? Let's not fight. The guilt, but it's the same truth, the guilt of this condition is not only borne by the current government but also by the previous government if we're to be honest. At the end of 2011, this one came in, and I don't give up on responsibility. Nothing was done in this year, two and a half years, now that it's in power, for almost three years, and it doesn't absolve them of their responsibility. But when we talk about the readiness to join the European Union and the use of funds there is also the responsibility of the previous government. No one can say that's not the case. Since 2004, we have had nine years since we started until we entered the European Union to do so and we know what happened, so it was in HDZ's power. So let's not do it now, let's fix it. They made a mistake, they made a mistake. Let's go fix it. The fact is that when it comes to aid, when it comes to administrative capacity, those who will assist, that's where the government had to and could have done much more. Missed, didn't do anything. There are even more who have gone to the state level than those who have entered. Of the 46 gone 30 came and had to move people. Then how is it only at the local level? We, for example, are fortunate in Osijek-Baranja County, so we have an excellent, truly excellent regional development agency that helps all municipalities and cities but not all of them. The team knows, they follow, they try, and they're still at their disposal. But that's the characteristic of a county. The task of central government, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to make it possible for all counties, all cities and all municipalities, and nothing has been done on this plan. And it doesn't appall this government from its responsibility and it's at this point the greatest.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89076	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89077	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Col. Buric, you mentioned the interpretation of the Croatian government initiated by the HDSSB and then we pointed out that the gross social product of the city of Zagreb is 130% compared to the average of the European Union, so 130%. At the same time, all Slavonian counties together have an average of 34.35% compared to the European Union. When we look at this cake by saying about this chart, cake, the distribution of projects in the Republic of Croatia from projects under the grant scheme, then we see that the city of Zagreb has withdrawn 27% of these funds and all Slavonian counties combined that have the same inhabitants as the city of Zagreb also 27.28%. This means that the entire Slavonia has withdrawn the funds as much as the city of Zagreb. It is true that the number of inhabitants is the same but Zagreb is 130% of the EU's GDP and Slavonia 34%. So who did it help? And that's what we pointed out when it was an impelation to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but we weren't listened, we weren't even sure what. It is also true that the use of the resources at your disposal is actually an index of the ability and efficiency of the Croatian government. But that it is simply unacceptable, it is mildly said that in one table on page 123, as you yourself said the investment priorities from ESI funds in the period until 2020, the sum is incorrect and the difference is 36 million euros as if 36 million euros were some kind of baby toy. And that's 250 million kuna. Where did those 250 million kunas go in that calculation as if it wasn't me either? Or is it some abstraction like the abstraction funds for this Croatian government?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89078	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89079	Very interesting and... My colleague Grubisic, you remind me here again of the doctoral dissertation of the current deputy minister whose mentor is his current Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Greek. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will quote some more findings from the doctoral dissertation until neither of them were in the Government of the Republic of Croatia and refers to Slavonia and Baranja and Zagreb. First, based on the change in relative and... The position can be concluded that the winners of the observed period are the Metropolitan region of Zagreb and certain coastal districts while the biggest losers of the county with a strong industrial and agricultural base are located in northwestern and eastern Croatia, p. 72, 73. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Second, although the picture of the geographical deployment of the winners and losers in terms of growth is somewhat more complex than according to the level of development, it can still be concluded that the eastern Croatian counties are in the worst position towards level and dynamic development, p. 73. The comparison of the value of the variation coefficient with and without the city of Zagreb reveals that, listen well, the very rapid growth of the city's GDP in Zagreb is the main cause of increasing regional differences. It's written in the doctoral dissertation of today's deputy minister on the page. 74. And here is the conclusion that I am not going any further, according to the degree of regional differences measured by GDP per capita Croatia is in a high fourth place compared to 25 member states. It can therefore be concluded that regional differences in Croatia are indeed a remarkable social economic problem not only from the domestic but also from the European perspective. And what happened to the views and views of the experts, I consider you an expert while you were in government and now that you're in government. What happens in a man's head when he sits in a minister's chair or a deputy minister's chair and what he says and declares, where he gets doctoral titles later on, it just fits in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89080	Marijan Škurić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89081	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here's an esteemed colleague, truly sincere admiration for your concern and concern for your Slavonia, but I think that in that we are all alike and I for my Croatian Zagorje, other colleagues both for Gorski Kotar, Lika, Dalmatia, Primorje. We're all sure I'm very much of a common interest to us, but we differ in one important thing, however effective we are in helping our administrations and the places we come from and there are terrible differences. First of all, I can say that first of all, we are responsible... for every parliamentary agent. Therefore, if someone says that after 10 years if he is somewhere in power and his end is still lagging behind, poor, no perspective, no development programs, then there is no one else to blame but the one who leads primarily that local administration, county or... his region. The key thing is, what you said was, you have to take care of yourself, no one should help you, and of course, no one gives you anything for free. That's what we need to figure out,... The European Union will teach us, teach us that if you want to get something, you have to make a good argument, you have to have good professional bases on why you need to get it, and then it's a matter of efficiency. If you get that, how are you going to install it into the development of your city? I said in my first discussion or debate, it doesn't matter... of these funds you'll make a football stadium or you'll make an entrepreneurial zone. We must go in to gain much more quality, new values, new knowledge that we will then ensure first and foremost the possibility of developing our end. How do we solve programs and obstacles? That's where I'd mention the part, you mentioned the pre-financing of the projects. Well, of course, some municipalities and cities if you want something, you have to have the opportunity to take credit. Of course there's interest, but the question is who can take credit today. It's nobody's fault for someone's head because it's been his city or municipalities for years in the budget minus and there's no reference for him to get credit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89082	Thank you very much. Dinko Buric, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89083	Dear colleague, I've been waiting for you. (Laughter) Yeah, seriously, I was just waiting. I didn't want to use it before that. You asked and now you said, so we become incompetent because the central government has left Slavonia and Baranja for 20 years. Well done, thank you very much. But when it comes to the use of the European Union funds, I will tell you here I am the mayor of a small town in Slavonia and Baranja where three projects are currently being implemented from pre-accession funds. Three at the same time, so I don't consider myself incompetent. But it's not about me or you or anyone else who's capable, we're not here to talk about who's doing what or how capable he is. Generally not good in Slavonia and Baranja, generally not good. And I don't think that exactly here are my colleagues and those who run Osijek-Baranja County are a good example of how effort and work can go up. Slavonia and Baranja are the poorest because the other four Slavonia-Baranja counties are in the last place of development, and for this same blame they bear both the previous and this authority, because in those four counties in power the HDZ was mostly replaced by the SDP. The only county in which it has not been in power for nine years now, either HDZ or SDP, is Osijek-Baranja and has gone to the middle from the bottom of the scale. And we are not satisfied because Slavonia and Baranja was once one of the most developed parts of the Republic of Croatia. So, what do we have to do now, keep quiet and not ask for it? So we have to fight for our end, so what else should I do here than represent the interests of the citizens who chose me, me and my colleagues, which are citizens of Slavonia and Baranja and at all costs defend national interests, Croatian interests. Well, we're not doing anything but doing it. And when we talk about how wrong the government's relationship with Slavonia and Baranja is, then you get angry with each other instead of changing. And that's true, so until it's in a position to have the opportunity to decide on the distribution of funds, there's no luck for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89084	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, a colleague of Mile Horvat. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89085	I welcome Mr. Deputy Minister Yakshu Puliz, colleagues and colleagues. Reports of some kind of momentum here at the debates become a routine thing, so we're discussing reports from a year or two ago and it wouldn't be good if this report were a routine thing, then something in my mind is wrong because this text that's presented here needs to be well evaluated and out of it some conclusions and some guidance on how the next period of 2020 should work as this story, this delusion of European funds would not really be a delusion. And I totally agree with my colleagues who said it was big promises. It has become an impression, an atmosphere has been created that whatever we have not done well will all be resolved when we enter the European Union, and those units of local self-government that are on some kind of lifelike existence of self-sustainability will be better resolved for them, that fact will be removed from the moment we enter the European Union. The funds will fix it all. And then we come up with this character of debate where we analyze the last year of pre-accession funds and say no, it's not like that, there's a lot of mistakes. Well, of course there are mistakes, of course there are mistakes, of course there's hardly been any serious work at the job. I can't say that nothing was done, but there are data, they say some funds have been withdrawn. However, this is not the level of expectations that the people, which is the nation, or which the businessmen expected from the entire investment of 4 billion invested to what we will gain. And that's why I don't think that we need to amneste anyone, so right now we have the current power to present the situation to us in 2013, but before that there was something to be done, and it was supposed to be one business in continuity, so that the work of one government continues the current government, in new circumstances, to do new facts. I'm afraid the last one didn't take the job seriously, and I'm afraid this one isn't doing it seriously either. I will not criticise, I will not be as resolute as my colleague, criticise the entire work of certain institutions around European funds. But I'm going to say a little bit, the fact more on the basis of some field experience with the intention of saying let's put things down in a way to remove these obstacles and really go through those countries that can say they've been used around European funds. It's already an old thesis that the Poles are champions, it's already an old thesis why we don't use their experience. The question is, is that possible under our circumstances? And I wouldn't tie that thing to any country. We have enough capacity to sort things out on our own. A few examples. So we're talking among other things about the cross-border cooperation component. We have seen here that we have had models, cross-border cooperation programmes with EU Member States and with non-EU members. Of course, in some way we worked more with the Member States, but we did not say that these were more unfavourable conditions. Therefore, with Member States, for example, with Hungary which was far more administratively prepared for this job because the third call for competition was made, the implementation of the projects went very quickly in the shortened procedure. However, in this whole business, we had to have a share of 100% of our own resources and we didn't say that. On the other hand, cross-border cooperation programmes with non-EU countries such as Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and Serbia have had much more favourable conditions for us. These were 80 percent grants. And so we went weaker towards these programs, we took it more seriously, we didn't even open third competitions, we didn't sign the agreements, the central administration reacted very slowly to all these things. From the announcement of the tender to the final signing of the contract, more than a year has passed while in the EU it is 3 months, etc. etc. And 80% of the grants we could get on that basis. We decided on a variant to give 100 percent of our own participation. So that's one example of how things might have to be done differently. We are also told here that Hungary is preparing for this job, and it is said that at the Office of Prime Ministers in Hungary it is formed, a body was formed, a governing body that supported these programmes at national level. So they got into this job as seriously as possible. They formed a team at the President's office that co-ordinated the national level, the national level of this job. We didn't do it, of course. Why didn't we do it now I wouldn't talk about it. Rural development is very interesting for us from the area of Slavonia and Baranja, so especially areas of special state concern where we see that IPARD are programs that were potential users. I'd rather not read that on page 105. I asked one question where are the O.P.G.s? Therefore, in these measures, the OPGs were not able to participate. To a scale of 103, everyone can run except for the OPG, except 100 and a few thousand OPGs, which employ 200 thousand people. Whether it was a European Commission restriction or a national component has said who can participate in these projects. I'm afraid that's what the national component said. Of course, the lack of a strategy here is very visible and also a particular lack of operational programs so that the whole thing can then be implemented. We see that the Agricultural Payments Agency has received thousands and 188 applications, and that a total of 184 projects have been paid out, means 10% of what is being run. Not to go into any data that's available to everyone right now. I will generally say what we local self-government units have concluded, what are the elements that we need to remove, in order to really consume these funds from EU funds. The conclusion is that the number of employees is insufficient and therefore professionals with the skills needed to prepare these projects by units of local self-government, because the basic nucleus is a municipality, i.e. the local self-government unit around which a complete life is organised. And they're actually the most interesting consumers of these projects. There are few employees in municipalities who, because of the scope of regular jobs, can, therefore, do this job and then get out of the context of some of their regular duties and people simply do not want to do these jobs. The main thing is that the budgets of local self-government units are limited. This available mass of financial resources is spent in most municipalities over, so the data says over 2 hundreds of our municipalities do not have the capacity to think about these things at all, because basic things spend, or their budgets, on the existence of local self-government, on salaries, etc. So they don't have any particular financial motivation to design projects. The technical documentation is also ready to prepare and allocate certain resources, because in the end there are standards, standard methodologies and this is part of the applicable procedure when infrastructure works are planned, i.e. capital investments. And they pull out some minimum funds for those things. However, things seem to get a little confusing when the preparation of the EU fund co-financing documentation may start and start, as there is no possibility of pre-financing in local self-government. And that's the key thing. I agree with my colleague Buric that we should also consider subsidising certain interest, because although a small number of those local self-governments that are so credited that they can borrow credit to finance such projects. But for that small number of local self-governments, we think it's very important that at least in some way help to co-finance these interest rates on that kind of credit. HBOR has, nominally, credit lines for that purpose. However, HBOR procedures are very extensive and HBOR's insurance elements are expensive, almost invaluable for entry into such an arrangement. So we think this is one of the key things that needs to be taken care of, that's what we said in previous discussions. The state should form some kind of fund that would then pre-finance quality selected programmes, especially local self-government units. Countys in some situations and participate in co-financing of such costs, however, we have a situation that is often followed by a assumption of a certain political lobbying, or co-financed by that part of local self-government that is in that political option or close, and others do not. So it's not a good method, but it's something that's characteristic on the ground. We have an example of Erdut Municipality, which is one of the more up-to-date and better municipalities in the east of Slavonia, which can be praised with a high percentage of the implementation of EU funds. However, they very clearly say their own participation is a key obstacle to efficiency. If they want to implement some kind of project worth 5 million kuna, they must provide 25% of their own participation in the budget with a million kunas. And that's just where all the talk stops. They don't have that money, and the truth of the Ministry of Regional Development stepped in with such an example last year. So we can't say that the government is indignant to that problem but that's not the way. So this is an individual case, and there should be a pattern to intervene in these cases. They also point out that the problem is short deadlines, and the problem is what we haven't talked about so far, and these are unsettled property-legal relations especially in those units. Because you, the garter, we know to what level of order it is, we know what it looks like today, and when you don't have arranged property-legal relations, you can't expect to be able to finish these things in quality. And also what was seen as a general problem that the ministry should sort of update is a lack of database. Experience has shown that there is no data on the use of funds in one place, so there is no database, they are conducted on various ministries and are conducted in various ministries according to different criteria, which of course is not good. So we think that this is a technical question and that the thing can be done very effectively in a way to form one database of the use of all projects so that these data can be used uniquely. And I generally think that without any conviction, but the fact is that I am the lead says that by 12 months 2013, the European Commission has at the expense of the National Fund amounted to 53m euros, which is 12.80% of the possible 418m euros. So this data itself tells you how much it's done. I'm saying, we're not inclined to look for the culprit, we're not inclined to point fingers and be resolute in grades. I think this is the result of a series in the continuity of unfinished business back 10 years. And it would be good if this were to be analysed and the next period by 2020 would be a set-up to it generally from the state level and then at the county level and to local self-government units if it were much more serious.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89086	Djuro Drinker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89087	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here, I reacted, but not just to you, dear colleague Horvat. A lot of you have mentioned before what she or she didn't do by some government or government and who's carrying some kind of guilt. Well, I'd just like to remind, say, for the last two years of some last government that the negotiations have been completed. And negotiations could only be concluded if certain conditions were respected and implemented, i.e. they realised certain preconditions. In the last two years, therefore, 31 chapters have been opened and closed without quality administration, without teams of hundreds and perhaps thousands of people who have worked on it for years would not have been able to do so. However, if teams had not been prepared to withdraw funds from pre-accession funds, those chapters that treated them would not have been closed and we would not have entered the EU. But what happened? With the arrival of the new government, hundreds of new people have come to have nothing to do with these jobs. The structure of the organization that has been doing these jobs so far has completely changed, and of course there has been a blockage. Of course, the government has failed to send acceptable national documents to the EU for three years based on which projects could be done. Why? Because the entire human infrastructure that has been prepared for years has been torn apart and hundreds of people have gone to consultants from that administration. And until these new ones learn, of course, that's going to be a big problem. It is this scattered capacity of the administration, which has been created for years, which is simply confused by the arrival of the new government. And this is the consequence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89088	Mile Horvat, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89089	In part, the esteemed colleague Popiac, in part of the finding that there has been a staff rash by the arrival of a new government in certain structures that were in charge of this project, I agree. Among other things, I think it was a lot more cost-effective to go to private consulting houses and deal with it than to be a clerk for some kind of salary in the ministries. And that's also one of the reasons why we have a personnel deficit in that part. However, we can't cut things off and say until 2012 we've been doing well, since 2012, nothing is right anymore and nothing has been done. I'm not prone to such sharp grades, such sharp cuts. I think it's a job that's supposed to be done in continuity because this programming period is seven years old. As it ends in 2013, so does the seven-year period by 2020. And we'll see how the following authorities behave during the new seven-year period. But again, I say this situation now absolutely has no amnesty and all the previous authorities that should have participated in a better preparation by 2013. Years.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89090	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the New Wave DC and the People's Party of Reformist Petar Baranovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89091	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the DC Club of the new wave and the People's Party of Reformists before I go on the subject, I will join in some of the thoughts expressed this morning when it comes to the presence of ministers in this assembly. In fact, as time moves away in this term, such an honor that the Ministers tell us we have less and less often. That's especially true in the eyes when things are this important on the agenda. And the report on the use of European funds for a certain period is one of the documents that tells us what we are in, what trends are related to a very important chapter, a very important topic in fact with something that is of vital interest to the development of this society in all its segments, and also in the financial context and to the financial stability of a country that is not very great. This report systematically shows, however, not according to the criteria of some colleagues in sufficient detail, all that is linked to the use of individual European funds programmes during that period. I'll look into some individual cases on behalf of the club. What is evident from this report is that the level of usability of what was at our disposal has not yet been brought to that level that would be acceptable to Croatia. It is very bad that we are getting into a situation, especially when we take the detail that my colleague Maric seems to have apostrophe, that for the participation of the national component, for the financing of these projects, Croatia must often raise credits that are burdened with interest, so our total amount is also greater. It is very worrying that our moment of membership is so high that we have actually failed to break out what we have put into the EU budget during this period. It's something that's absolutely unacceptable. The reasons why we haven't used our funds well enough, of course they don't lie down and I don't want it to be thought at all, they're just not in the quality of this government's work, they're more radical and they've been coming back for the last ten years since Croatia had to prepare seriously for this job. Now, why haven't we done that is actually just as important in the future period that's ahead of us, so I'm going to use this exposure to point out a few things that we should state and as a system correct to be more efficient, more expedient in this very important business. I will give some examples, this report shows what is the level of exploitation of European funds when it comes to waste management, i.e. the formation of regional waste management centres. Sibenik was ahead of it, so we're part of the pleasure here of the present colleague and of mine personally made, and there are two other regional centres in this document where they stayed. The answer to the question may lie in a fact called spatial plans. The important moment in project realization is the coherence of projects with spatial plans, i.e. the expeditivity of the system that brings spatial plans, the ability to update and correct them in terms of the interests of projects and the withdrawal of funds. Another important detail is the financial readiness of local self-government units to participate in European projects at all. And here we return to one question that I often apostrophe in my debates, that is the equality of citizens in this society. Whether citizens living in Grazac, Lici, Donji Lapic, Lovinac, Otočac, in my Dalmatian Zagora in southern Croatia, in Slavonia, in Lika have the same chance to improve their quality of life, to withdraw these funds, to improve their conditions of entrepreneurship, to withdraw new funds with citizens who live and exist in more developed environments such as urban, large centres such as Split, Zagreb or some Dalmatian cities or some major cities, so let's say in the northwest of Croatia. For this reason, even before the party was formed, we have referred to the parliamentary procedure of the law, a bill that should ensure the financing of European projects from the state budget for those units of local self-government, municipalities and cities that are not financially prepared to participate in significant projects from European funds. Like what? one municipality that has 4 million kuna budgets and has neither to settle public lighting costs nor that elemental heating costs in kindergarten or I don't know. In what way will we expect him to prepare, and project documentation, pay consultants, and ultimately pay his share of the contribution to withdrawing funds. Impossible mission. For this reason, the People's Party of Reformists has referred, I stress, a bill that should address the issue, it is unfortunately not even included in the agenda today, which best testifies how serious we are when it comes to these issues, generally as politics. The issue of inter-resorship cooperation, colleague Cain, referred to the use of the European Fisheries Fund for the period 2007. - In 2013, I know some of it. So he cited a permanent and temporary suspension of fishing, a permanent suspension of fishing, which we call popular Anglo-Saxon term, scraping, Croatian wording is about cutting ships and withdrawing from use and purely for information, it is a fully justified program. We have too many ships compared to biological resources. And the third thing is to invest in existing capacity in mariculture, this is important. One vivid example of how organized we are when it comes to pulling this money into existing capacities. Why? Because there is no adequate interdepartmental cooperation and there are strategic documents, essential documents, that... one with the other. And in particular, it is an ecological network of nature 2000 where we Croats were more Catholic than the Pope. So we have finely closed the door through the development of maricculture in Croatia and when we take advantage of all existing sites, we will remain part of the European funds untapped and we will roll up to about 10, 12 thousand tons of brand and work in caged farming, and I stress once again, only Greece is doing 150 thousand tons and that Greece, which we learned 30 years ago, is... working and brancin. A very picturesque example of us closing our doors ourselves. And finally what is most important and this is mentioned in previous speakers, I will work out a little more detail, a matter of ownership without which nothing can be done, which, when it comes only to land ownership, is also a matter of land books and catastrases, the slowness of administration, our slowness in making, or the slowness of the executive authority in making certain decisions that are important, have we established as a matter of urgency the resolution of property legal relations in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia when it comes to the use of European funds? Is such a guideline given to state institutions? Whether changes to the rules have been made to make it clear that every state institution that has to... a document with the completion of the documentation projects is required to withdraw European funds is obliged to give priority to such a request. I don't think we did that. I'll be extremely happy if I'm being denied by those institutions, so they say, yes, we have that. Catastra has an imperative of urgency, paper issued and problem solved. The court has an imperative of urgency, if it is a nomination for a European project. The solutions are very simple, you just have to have the courage to make decisions in life and have that feature of players, a handful of top players to predict a little more than one move if you want to be a master. If you're not gonna be a master, don't get caught up in it. The consistency of strategic documents and whether we have brought all strategic documents in order to be able to withdraw according to the basic principles of the functioning of European funds maximum, one open issue also. In any case, this debate today should be much more interesting to all of us, and especially to the components of the executive authority, ministries and resorts. The content of this document and the conclusions that can be drawn from it should be much more important in the context of the perception of errors and urgent corrections in the system in order to achieve efficiency because there is a limited period of several years in which we will be able to withdraw more intensive funds. In front of us is the task of trying these tens of billions of euros that have been overlooked by various programmes to withdraw, although when you look at these programs, of course they are absolutely interesting to us, priority. In one part, they'd like to give us anything else, not what's inside. So since that is the case, and we have an obligation to pay our financial share of membership in the European budget, then at least we try to make the 10 billion use of those 10 billion faster, more quality, more complete than we did when it comes to the use of pre-accession funds because if we both have access, or structural, cohesion funds go the same way or similar as the pre-accession ones, then I'm afraid we're black-written. This report will support the New Val DC and reformer. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89092	Thank you. Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89093	Thank you very much. Comrade Baranovic, you mentioned spatial plans and that there are restrictions on European funds. Well, that's exactly what one of the restrictions is, but I also faced myself on the Osijek project when it took 386 particles to go into project realization. Therefore, exactly speeding up procedures and spatial plans, but also what happens to us in procedures is that you have a deadline N plus implementation of the project, but the biggest problem at the moment is that you are currently running a tender and there is a need to speed up the process if you do not implement a European project within the given time period you are paying for the penalty. But what's happening to us in the process of getting you to have professional complainers who are still professionally complaining about exactly what's going on and what's going on and we're wasting our time on irrelevant things and we're wasting our time right now. And I'm afraid that in a lot of projects, we're going to pay for the foames, because we're not going to implement the projects that we've agreed on at a certain time that the European Commission expected us to do. Therefore, a serious project requires procedures but let us also try to help other legal solutions to speed up these procedures in order to implement the European funds and European projects we have agreed on as soon as possible. And what I repeat again, the participation of a good part of the local self-government unit will not be able to finance, and I appeal again that Minister Greek and Lalovec must sit down and help undeveloped areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89094	Petar Baranovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89095	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Bubalo, I am in my presentation clearly, but so have other colleagues and before me have highlighted the issue of central state's transport to those units of local self-government that are neither human or financially qualified to enter a business like this. For this reason, we have referred as a party to the procedure of the bill to ensure the state's resources and obligations to stand behind the back of certain units of local self-government, if we intend to withdraw money and if we are to use European funds evenly to develop Croatian society and all Croatian regions. And as for this second part, the question of the contest, you've well noticed that it's one of Achilles' heeles in the realization of projects that can often and fatal consequences and that's just one of the details. To the other thing that I have apostrophe for you, which is that there must be inter-resorial cooperation and a common view of the problem of the realisation of European projects and the withdrawal of funds that we must adapt a whole series of laws and sub-legal acts to that imperative. It is easy to give up-to-date on the outcome of the documentation, the implementation of certain procedures in the institutions of the rule of law, and finally, when it comes to public procurement procedures. Because we're in a lot bigger Catholics than the Pope, and that costs us dearly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89096	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists-Party of Work, colleague Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89097	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the last club we've heard a lot about today about this report and one conclusion that I've been forced into is one saying that "We all believed in hope and hope married." This way, we could briefly sum up this kind of hope of joining the EU and using European funds in the way we thought and this report at the end of what we can read. I'm glad that we've heard here several times today that all the criticisms that have been made are only meant to cause the problems or obstacles we have or have so far to detect them in a quality way and continue as we should. The time that's past we can't make up for, the only thing we can do is draw some conclusions. Unfortunately, a very large number of experts warn and fear Croatia could be below the average country in the absorption of EU funds due to delays in the preparation of documents and concrete projects. As early as 2.3 years ago, we should have realized that the biggest investments must go into the preparation of projects that would then be financed from the EU funds in the period from 2014-2020. In 2014, we contract projects worth around 500m euros, and the allocation in 2014 is 900m euros. So there is a great danger that in 2014 we can negotiate almost half the amount we could agree on. What are these obstacles that we face in the withdrawal of funds? Of course there are a lot of them. The European Commission is the most critical of us at the expense of strategic documents that form the basis for the withdrawal of funds. Incompetence and ignorance is evident in strategic planning and writing of strategic documents where there is a lack of clear strategy. And we warn this almost every day at various times when certain strategies or laws are adopted that there is no clear and targeted strategy of some long-term development of the Republic of Croatia where indeed all the resolutions would be turned on and co-ordinated in such a good way that we go towards a common goal. The European Commission's criticisms are most often referred to the generality of strategic documents which do not address the main problems, and are broadly setting defined and general objectives and priorities. And that is our problem, we go very far into the width, we write a lot of things, but specifically with the goals, concrete deadlines we still don't know how to do. We also heard today about the problem of professional staff and training. What concerns me personally is this. Much of the money and pre-accession funds and is now used to train professionals in institutions that will therefore implement and finalise projects related to obtaining money from the European Union. So at one point we apply with a specific project to strengthen administrative capacity. We get some money from the European Union, with this money for free, so I will say for free about our budget we train experts who after a year or two we let them leave without a problem and go to the private sector. On the other hand, we have entrepreneurs we have very little to talk about today, so I may have to put one accent on which they must finance their training with their money. The education on certain tendered tenders related to the European Union project can again be attended by employees of certain or resolution ministries, state administrations but not private entrepreneurs, or not private entrepreneurs. Another problem that has definitely occurred in the skills of the staff by moving a number of quality people most often unfortunately to lower-ranked jobs. We had people who, at the very beginning, entered into negotiations with the European Union first with pre-accession funds. In this sort of beginning, these people learned certain things from European colleagues, acquired certain knowledge and contacts, and then at one point we allowed those people to move to their places, set up individuals who had never or very little contact with any European projects. It's costing us. I'm not going to say at this point what kind of personnel it might be, I don't want to bid, but I can only say that I'm extremely sorry that these things happen at the moment as we advocate some kind of lifelong learning and training of individuals to be more productive and more capable over time. We have county development agencies that have also funded their staff by attracting funds from the European Union, but in the counties themselves, we have come to a problem that these people and we have warned on several occasions that they did not consider it necessary to further educate and perfect workers at local levels. Unfortunately, he is always a human factor, so both in the use and withdrawal of funds from the European Union or funds that are available to us and we cannot expect that every mayor and mayor is first the same person who knows in the same way as someone else is using funds, money baratas and competitions. And that's why we needed much, much earlier county, or units of regional self-government to make the most of these people available or educated in every municipality if there's nothing else one person who could do if anything else and then prepare some documentation for a project so that later on at the county level could be realized. I return here to entrepreneurs, we have recently brought a strategy by 2020, and then again these same entrepreneurs, who ultimately participate in the industrial development and economic development of Croatia as regards the withdrawal of funds from the European Funds, are left almost alone. I think that institutions such as the Croatian Chamber of Commerce can and should also strengthen their volume through the European Union funds and make everything available to entrepreneurs to teach them how and how to write plans for obtaining and withdrawing funds in order to be objective and to meet exactly the challenges that the call for tender puts ahead of them. This is how these people who hope to get a certain portion of the grant to strengthen their business are left alone again. Neither local self-government or regional self-government units nor even here are associations whose primary objective should be the well-being of entrepreneurs and craftsmen to contribute to the maximum degree of education in order to ensure that the cost-effectiveness and usability of grants is as high as possible. The fact is that there is no money in the budget, it is true that we have used most of these funds so far for infrastructure projects. On the one hand, we are talking about foreign investors, and then we are giving the foreign investor an assistant who is available to him that we like to boast for 24 hours, so that this foreign investor can gain and result in all that he needs. And while we're fighting for foreign investors, we're abandoning and forgetting our own, our investors who are eager to develop, who are eager to invest, and if anyone's help to get to the grants, I'm definitely saying that these are our entrepreneurs, the craftsmen who are very much holding this budget as much as we can in life. In conclusion, we have problems, communication is bad or almost no inter-resor ministries. The strategy of some medium or long-term development is done alone in our ministry, we do not coordinate at local or national level, and I think that is the biggest reason why we pay this price that we pay in terms of almost still giving more than we receive. Because if we were to add up the amount we've given really and all the interest that's not mentioned here anywhere, the question is what kind of ratio would be given and obtained in the end. As long as we don't set priorities and as long as we don't tell what's most important to us right now so that the budgets of municipalities, cities, counties, and thus the state budget will be filled in quality and better, I think we will also read the next report that we get on the benches, and about the usability of the European Union funds in the same way and that we will continue to warn about the same mistakes. Let's educate people, let's let those people who learned something and learned to do something, do their job in quality. At this point, we must not afford luxury to lose any of the experts involved in writing projects and withdrawing money from European funds, let alone the luxury of schooling them for a few years and then letting such people leave us. And what I really particularly appeal for is, let us not allow ourselves to change capable people with money, people who enter this area for the first time because the success of the withdrawal of European funds will depend greatly on the success of the functioning of the state budget, and we are all aware that this budget is getting weaker and thinner. And really the only alternative we have at this point is to get as much money as we can for what we've given. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89098	Thank you. Marijan Škurić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89099	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, I absolutely agree with you with this finding that you have stated, which is that for and above all, the application for the use of the European Union funds is the most important human resources. We should have people who know the goals, who know how to apply projects, who know all the conditions that the European Union defines for these programmes, who know how to implement them. But then you said one thing and that is that, of course there are many segments that work on it and there are county development agencies that are one of the key moments, we also have to admit, but you said that those people who used to be agencies who knew it didn't need to further educate people. It's a little bit of a discussion to me. We're always saying something. Someone should give us something. No, it's up to us to take advantage of the potential, to impose ourselves, to be proactive, and to be the knowledge or ignorance we have that we're looking for in those places where we can get it. There are examples,... we have said an example of good practice where let's say the Agency for Development... County... which has done many projects both independently and with us in cities and municipalities. I am personally, and within the city we have trained over 12 people who are actively working on the promotion and implementation of the European Union. And here I also agree with you that it is not just now the government or ministers to blame, we have many segments, above all really the Chamber of Commerce and other associations that should have been much more actively involved in promoting, educating people and associations, associations and companies that can use these funds. It's really one possibility for all of us, the proactive way to know that we can use them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89100	Nancy Tyrelli, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89101	Well, here's my colleague, I'm glad we agree on both the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and all those who needed to help entrepreneurs, but I really often warn about this problem. As head of a local self-government unit, you can communicate differently with the county, with the Regional Development Agency and ask that you have experts, lend experts or otherwise help in the realisation of infrastructure facilities in your local self-government unit. I ask the question all the time why an entrepreneur from any county couldn't use this Regional Development Agency in the same way that people who were educated and funded by the European Union's money, so through funds in most cases because the development agencies first withdrew funds for themselves and the education of their people and only when they taught them to do other projects. Why wouldn't this entrepreneur have the same rights to this regional development agency to ask for the service you're looking for? As head of this project, you do not pay out of your pocket, so you eventually pay the Development Agency the money of the municipality or the city, and the entrepreneur does not have that privilege, even though he does not, by his work, finance his investments and his donations and the unit of local self-government and that county that each of them writes projects. So we have an operational plan for the development of municipalities and cities. Every municipality and city has it, and I think we should take it seriously that in these operational plans, especially in the use of European funds, we also implement individuals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89102	Thank you. Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89103	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, dear colleague. Zagreb may have been a good topic that, in some future time, should be an integral part of this report when you spoke about regional development agencies. It would be very interesting in one place to obtain data on the qualifications of people, the number of people and the efficiency of these agencies and these people in the business of generally developing the economy as a supporting institution, but particularly related to the use of EU funds and employees' engagements in development agencies or the engagement of development agencies, various other often and private agencies that then work programmes, and development agencies serve as job providers. What's kind of important, and what you've also well concluded, is that our system isn't connected, that we're disorganized, that simply because of this disorganization, we often don't use what we can. And when we talk about local self-government and state aid to these local self-governments, there are examples where state institutions or ministries have helped greatly. Here are examples in Križevci 10 million kunas invested money from Croatian Waters to prepare water and drain projects. But it's standing now, we need to call a tender, we need to move forward with the work. In 2010, that contract was made. There are also good examples that are French, where in a very fast time it did not refer to 2013 but managed to implement these 7 projects in 2014. That's what the Deputy Minister knows. Contracts will be divided tomorrow where the ministry has also co-financed. But there was one connection. So that connection definitely has to be bigger and then there's a lot more to be done, there would be no such congestion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89104	Nancy Tyrelli, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89105	Yes, all the time here is a colleague of Hrg we agree that coordination, first of all coordination and goodwill must exist that county regional agencies must respond to the challenges of every unit of local self-government regardless of which party is at the head of that unit of local self-government as it is now. We didn't, I didn't mention it, but definitely one of the big problems is that you're looking at an individual, and you're not looking at a local self-government unit with all those needs that she has. I'll only tell you one case. Let's say, we just recently a year ago, a year and something started talking about lies and establishing lies as bodies that could pull very large funds from European funds. However, I am being asked who is working with the members of these local action groups? Who educates them in how and how they will withdraw their funds, and we know that the members of the lie or the structure of the lie make between themselves and the unit of local self-government, NGOs, young, old entrepreneurs, that there is therefore a certain scheme that must be done, first of all, according to the EU's instructions must be in those lies. And in the end, we come back to the same story. So, we have a lie in which the local self-government unit in most cases is mostly funding or proposing infrastructure projects without, in some small part or almost in any way, financing or defending projects that could at this point possibly bring the same added value, if nothing else in that part of maybe better employment in certain companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89106	Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89107	Thank you very much. In fact, during your speech, you mentioned that they are very important people, strategies are important, but agreements are important. I'm afraid there are a number of missing policies in several places, but I just want to read one sentence for you. From the presentation of the draft Partnership Agreement for the Programming of EU Funds for the period 2014, 2020 Mattia had it... Assistant Minister here at the Croatian Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One sentence, for starters, will be based on a package of measures aimed at certain vulnerable groups such as Roma, Serbs and defenders of the Homeland War. It shows that the policies are missing and then we are not surprised what is happening today in front of the resolution ministry, the Croatian Defence Ministry. Therefore, agreements are important, people are important, strategies are important, but a clear policy of the Republic of Croatia is important.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89108	Nancy Tyrelli, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89109	We all agree on this, so we must first know our own priorities in order to be able to reroute all activities according to these priorities and those set goals. We are therefore warning that we are really well - meaninged to warn the vast majority of us for a long time that we have been missing a concretely visible and clear goal to which we would all go together. This report now and the discussions that were being held today are heading right for that. Who's to blame? Is it the one before or is he more guilty now? Did we do something wrong before, so it reflects now on bad results and so on. We have to, finally we have to realize that we all have to work together to get to the goal that we've all set together. And it doesn't matter who is in power or who is at the moment of implementation of a particular policy of the set goal, strategy or measure that will be responsible for implementing it, but that we all know together that we want to get there in a year, two, five, and that we are all working together to actually get there. If we change our policies and change our goals every once in a while, we change priorities that are more important to us, we're basically losing ourselves all the time. We end up spending a lot of money, a lot of human resources. And the proof of that is precisely this moving people who have learned some things and that these things can only now make good use of quality and useful. Then we move them, put them in their positions new and learn and do it over and over again.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89110	And Ivan Shuker, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89111	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Tyrell, you may have touched not one of the key but one of the most important things we cannot do in this country, which is depolitisation and professionalization of the state administration. And maybe this report and all that is happening with European funds is saying what should not happen in the state administration, which is that people who are both at the Ministry of Finance and at the Ministry of Regional Development and at the Agency for Contracting have been making trades for years, so to speak at pre-accession funds and should have taken the burden of leading Croatia towards exploiting EU funds are being lured to catch party staff who had no idea about it. And that's why we're a year late with all the processes, only because of that. Because the people who came if they didn't do something, how would they do it? The second thing, many unfortunately thought of EU funds will come from themselves. I remember, we at the finance ministry had a secretary of state whose only job was pre-accession funds and relations with the EU, having dozens of meetings to which the heads of the local self-government unit were invited. Those who regularly come today have great results, those who have not come nor have projects at this time. So, the thing is that the Ministry of Regional Development that has now taken over a complete job must be the initiator of it, must be the one to educate. And as for both crafts and commercial chambers, after all, and when you look at the private sector of those who have made the effort, who have not been able to make money in Croatia in the banks that behave as they behave, they are going into this project. It's heavy, you need to collect tons of paper but eventually they get grants. But I'm saying, depoliticalization and professionalization of the state administration is the key to where to go and how to go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89112	Replication response, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89113	What is definitely the most important thing for us to introduce is a measurable personal responsibility at all levels and in all the jobs we do. As long as we don't have the responsible individuals for something that hasn't been done, we'll always take out the general or the ministry or the minister, however, the job will still stand where it stands. What is the problem, I would like to point out once again, about entrepreneurship is that the frequent error in writing project applications is the lack of compliance of the objectives and priorities of the project with the objectives and priorities of the competitions, as well as the lack of interconnection between objectives, activities and results, which makes the project inconclusive as such. We've heard here today one piece of information about a thousand and some reported projects, and it's going through about 10% of the projects. That's our alarm bell. So people spent certain financial resources to make the project, 90% of the projects don't meet the terms of the tender, and then we can't say that 90% of it isn't good and only 10% knows. We have to work really to strengthen capacity, and learn, we all have to learn together how to write projects, in which way, in order to satisfy quality tenders so that we can ultimately be satisfied with the funds withdrawn because for the amount of resources we withdraw, indeed, each of us bears one part of our responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89114	We'll continue our individual debate at 15.00 hours. First of all, she'll be a colleague of Martina Dalic's. I'm setting a break until 3:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89115	My colleagues and colleagues continue to discuss each other individually. Martina Dalic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89116	Thank you very much. So what I'd really like to point this intervention to is not so much of the content we've been dealing with during the morning, and during the morning there's a lot to be said about how to use funds, exploitation, obstacles, possibilities, what it's for, why it's important, etc. What I would really like to point out here and possibly more for the record alone is actually to link this point of ours to what we discussed yesterday. And yesterday we discussed the budget, the state of fiscal policy, how and how Croatia is coping with these financial difficulties, including the excessive deficit procedure. What is also debated about the use of funds from pre-accession funds, and we cannot, of course, bypass what is happening in 2014, or the possibilities and dynamics of the use of funds from structural funds, says that these two topics are extremely linked and that, in fact, in the budgetary situation itself, and in many of the problems that fiscal policy has, is also hiding one of the dangers that could reduce the absorption capacity of funds from structural funds. The regulations governing the use of funds in the period 2014-2020 are, in fact, very clear in their insistence that the possibility and dynamics of the use of funds from European funds are linked to the speed at which the Member State fulfils its membership obligations, in particular if it is in the excessive deficit procedure or in the macroeconomic imbalance procedure. Croatia is, as we know in the excessive deficit procedure, and we saw it as it was yesterday, and I told the Deputy Minister that in 2014 it will not fulfil its tasks and objectives in terms of the level of deficits it has been assigned and which it has agreed to. Not only will it not meet the default level of the fiscal deficit but there are also strong doubts about the government's ability and willingness to implement what you yourself have set out in the reform plan, in the convergence plan. Such a situation could in fact result that, in addition to all the slow and insufficient efficiency in using today's funds from European funds, Croatia might eventually face a suspension of the use of these funds due to failure to meet the obligations under the excessive deficit procedure. As I said, a regulation that regulates the possibility of using funds from structural funds is very explicit in terms of the Commission's ability to suspend the possibility of using funds from funds from countries that do not meet the obligations of the excessive deficit procedure. This suspension may be up to 50% of the funds if the Council finds that the obligations under the excessive deficit procedure are not met. That is why I would like Mr. Deputy Minister to comment on whether and to what extent the Ministry of Regional Development is paying attention to this danger especially because the Minister of Regional Development is also in charge of both the Deputy Prime Minister and the much wider areas of economic policy management than self-government of the Structural Funds. It would be extremely bad if the ineffectiveness of the government's work, that the government's unwillingness to implement and launch reforms except in the fact that negative economic trends in Croatia were reflected in an additional problem, i.e. the suspension of funds from structural funds which seems to me to be an open and real possibility, given that, as I repeat, the Deputy Minister of Finance himself said yesterday that the obligations under the excessive deficit procedure will not be met, that this deficit will be significantly greater than what is scheduled and what Croatia has committed to the procedure. And besides, the measures the government has set for itself. We saw in yesterday's debate, the government itself didn't or didn't implement them to the extent she planned. This is particularly important in the context of the fact that European funds are expected to be very much in terms of the launch of investments, the start-up of growth. I believe and hold that I am in a group of those who do not think that European funds can significantly contribute to solving some problems such as competitiveness, such as the Croatian economy on the international market, which is why reforms are needed, but it is undeniable that European funds can contribute and can give a significant impulse to reviving public investment. And it is precisely public investment that, at least this government is very confident and with a lot of passion it is constantly announcing, but unfortunately, there is nothing from now on, and the slowdown that... from the past perspective from the structural funds that you have spoken about today, the slowness that the planning documents are being prepared for 2014 further stresses and further strengthens this risk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89117	Thank you. Next up for a debate, Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Many things have already been said in the final case, during today's debate and replicas, but the fact is that we can't exactly boast as a state that we've done a lot of work on using European money and that today's debate on this report should actually lead to some indicators and a solution that in future times we don't make so many mistakes, that we don't blame each other because often in this assembly we hear, it's the local self-government that blames the state authorities, and in the end we can say that we haven't all probably done enough to try to reconcile, agree, to try to withdraw as much funds as possible. The new 2013 report is in any case, as I have already said in a few and in replicas, I find it rather vague and has a lot of illogicalness, there are a lot of wrong data, there are data published on the Ministry's websites, which are not the same as those in the report, and I think that a little bit of everything should be explained. For example, page 2 of the introduction reads that since 01.07.2013... there have been 449.4m euros from the EU Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund for the financing of projects under operational programmes financed prior to accession under the 3.4 component IPA. On page 4, it says that the total agreed funds on 31.12.2013 amounted to EUR 559.47 million, that the total amount of EUR 254.66 million was allocated, resulting in an agreement on 31.12.2013. 44.59% of the funds allocated. On the Ministry's website, it said, the European Commission allocated the amount of 997.6m euros to the Republic of Croatia in the period from 2013 to 2013. Also on the website, the Croatian Structural Funds, which is also run by the Ministry of Rural Development, writes the following, the financial value of the IPA programme for the Republic of Croatia in the period from 2007. In 2013, it amounted to 997.6m euros. If the funds... for the Republic of Croatia through the IPA programme 2007. The total amount of EUR 997.6 million is available from 01.07.2013 to another EUR 449.4 million from the European Rural Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund for the financing of the project under the operational programmes financed before accession by the funding under the 3.4 component of the IPA amounting to a total of 1447 million euros, which means that the total amount of EUR 1254.66 million was allocated to the EU. So is it 1254 or 1447? On page 5, 559,47 million euros, agreed on, 44.59% of the total allocated funds for the previous IPA assistance programme and EU structural instruments, which should then definitely be 997,6 from the IPA programme plus 449.4 which is... available on 01.07.2013, i.e. a total of 1447m euros, and not 1254.66m euros. The average percentage, it was here, the percentage of the contract in certain components ranged from 33,68 to 70,10 and the percentage of the payment of the contracted funds from 25,67 to 83,52. I said earlier that this is actually something that is not a real indicator, we have to find an average, some percentage that would be 4.95%, but if we were to look at these amounts of 1254 million euros and 1447 million euros, then that's not the percentage, it's a percentage of 38.66 euros. What I would like to mention here, as I have already said and here, Deputy Minister, and this is how I will publicly repeat it again, so in measure 301 IPA, that the units of local self-government where a large number of inhabitants live in rural areas could not run for money from European funds because there was a limit of up to 10,000 inhabitants. We have now submitted a programme of rural development measures, I really ask and I suggest that you see the possibility of that barricade being removed because definitely many cities, the type of my town, the town of Križevci, have a ring of villages around them. There are thousands of people living in these villages. These cities, if they have more than 10,000 inhabitants, cannot apply to these funds, and then there remains a large amount of funds to be used, as was the case in those previous years, where 70 million euros seem to have been returned to me because of unusableness, and if it is possible to see the European Commission to bring them into line, to change that regulation to place some percentage of the rural population or something else, so that units of local self-government can run to a greater extent on these projects, draw more money. And what I am still interested in in this report, I was already talking about, so on page 79, point 6 writes the preparation of projects on the Križevci-Koprivnica- State border reconstruction of the construction of the second track. Does this mean that in 2013 nothing was done on the projects of the second railway station Dugo Selo-križevci and on the project of St. Ivan the Frog? Since these two programmes are not included in this report, and you told the Deputy Minister in that first part that it was prepared that the competition is ongoing for both and for each other and is expected to end the competition in the end of the event and afterwards to negotiate these works in order to make use of these funds. And just one more thing so publicly said, so something doesn't exactly work in the realisation of the Croatian water programme, because in 2010 contracts were concluded with the contractors for the design of water and sewerage systems, all 2, 3 programmes here today are also agreed for implementation, competitions have been carried out until some programs that are practically up to almost 100% prepared have not yet been put on the list and there is a risk that these programmes are in principle not realised because their deadline is limited to 2017 or 2018 means a very short period of time, and if such a thing is not launched quickly, we will be able to get the losses of those few million kunas that Croatian waters have given for design but that Croatia will ultimately be left without that money that should be obtained. It is about tens of millions of euros, specifically the town of Križevci, which is a programme of agglomeration and a water programme. So the competition, after all our knowledge and agglomeration talks, could have already been launched, could have already been out there, but we don't know why it isn't, so I warn that there could really be big problems, especially since the construction law was amended, and we know that building permits issued before the law was passed can no longer be extended as they could have been 2+2, but they were only reduced to two years ago, so there could be a real big loss of money from funds. Here's one application just one indication of one problem to analyze it a little bit more in detail and that these programs and projects are launched as soon as possible so that the money doesn't fail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89119	Thank you, too. And finally Deputy Minister Jacksa Pugliz. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89120	Thank you. Honorable MPs and MPs. Here's a thank you for these comments, thank you for the debate which, as always, was interesting, rich, came out of the topic itself often times. This report is obvious and a cause and it is not bad to problem the use of EU funds in a broader context than it is affected by the report, so we also talked about project preparation, we talked about some other things, about land purchase problems, public procurement, so a lot of what affects the use of EU funds itself. Although only the report that the government's commitment to the conclusion adopted by this House speaks about what we did within 6 months from 1.7.2013 to 31.12.2013 is the first 6 months of Croatia's membership in the EU, the first 6 months. Compared to some countries, we usually compare ourselves with Poland or any other member who has been using the Polish funds since 2004, and even Romania and Bulgaria, which have often been a bad example or at least mentioning the use of EU funds, but Romania and Bulgaria have been in the EU since 2007. And go to compare Croatia which has only completed one year of membership in the use of funds with Poland or any other member country is not fair, first is not fair, the second is neither methodologically comparable, nor in such a way we can draw conclusions at all. If we're going to compare Croatia with Poland in 2005, that's fine. Let's take out all the figures where Poland was using the 2005 funds and where Croatia is so that we can see how far behind we are and see how much Poland has paid penalties for the incorrect use of EU funds in the first years of membership and how much Croatia has paid. So I really appeal that when we talk about this in public about this problem, we really consider one broader context. The EU fund story is a long-term story, it is indeed one process. No one can prepare you for using ten times the amount of funds in the pre-accession period through some seminars, education, and I don't know what, there's no such thing. This is what is said in English learning by doing learning through work and it has been seen with each member country including those old, but especially with new ones. There is a simple line of learning curves, a curve of absorption that is what it is, it has a time period where momentum is caught and then these results are achieved which we can talk about in the case of Poland or some other member state. But that doesn't mean there's no problem either. Any country benefiting from EU funds faces exceptional problems. Slovenia this year suspended funds from the cohesion fund, Hungary last year, the Czech Republic is constantly under suspension because the problem is complex. And what's important to mention is that complexity is also changing. Each new perspective makes new rules and each time these rules are increasingly complex as much as the European Commission is talking about simplifying the truth is that each perspective meant increasingly difficult conditions for Member States to use these funds. And Croatia is really specific, we have to say it openly, we have to admit it to ourselves. 1.7.2013.We enter at the end of one perspective with one kind of rule, we have 6 months to implement, 450m euros is an allocation that we must use by 31.12.2016. No member state had that. At the same time, preparations are under way for the use of a new programme perspective. The Republic of Croatia must complete operational programmes in 2007, 2013 and must work on programming documents for 2014, 2020, obtain accreditation in 6 months and receive accreditation for a new, new programming period for 7 years. What other countries have had the luxury of preparing for years is what we do in a year. Let's not forget that, please. And the European Commission acknowledges that. When it comes to amounts, let me just mention the latest data, so there are a lot of numbers and really this is one problem where the numbers change. So the amount of resources available is changed over time, they are not the same, because of what a certain allocation is given each year, or we are when we enter membership 1. Seven. In 2013 our location until then joined new locations in 6 months. Final numbers, now we're talking about IPA and structural funds. That's how the report was structured. As you can see in the report, the distance between IPA components 1, 2 and 5 and IPA components 3 and 4. IPA components 3 and 4 are combined with the allocation from structural instruments for the first 6 months 2013. It's becoming one. This means that those data for the operational programme for environmental protection, operational transport and operational programme regional competitiveness and the operational programme for human resources development include in itself and IPA alllocations and alllocations for 6 months. They're now connected into one budget. The following data are available to the Republic of Croatia, so we have the possibility to withdraw a billion 269m euros from IPA and from structural instruments. So IPA 1, IPA 3, IPA 5 and plus so the former IPA 3 and 4, plus an allocation of 450m euros for the first 6 months. So a billion 269. From that amount we're up to 17. The 10th contracted 877m euros. So something a little less than 70%. 70% of the funds were agreed and 450m euros were paid. So something over 50% of the contracted funds was paid. The deadline for withdrawal is 31. 12. 2016, this does not mean that projects will stop then but only means that those accounts on the projects that are submitted after that date will not be refundable, we will have to find ways to finance them ourselves. So the first measure of success is a serious right criterion of 31. 12. 2016. So the deadline for negotiating the remaining 400m euros and for spending the remaining 800m euros is 31. 12. 2016. When we talk about projects the state of things is next, all the amounts are covered by tenders. So the total billion 270m euros is covered by tenders. What does that mean? This means that either public procurement is ongoing or the selection of projects is ongoing depending on what kind of projects are involved. If it is the Long Selo-Kristevci, the 200m-euro tender. Now imagine 200 million euros just that competition plus more St. Ivan Žabno-Gradac 30m euros. So with these two projects being negotiated and the public procurement is under way, we expect it to be either in December or in January if there is no hope for any difficulty we have resolved the practical issue of the operational transport programme. Of course, the question remains whether or not we'll be able to spend it by 31. 12. 2016 is now a new issue, which is why we are preparing spare projects. So it's possible that we might have to divide this project into two parts, and that's why we have spare projects that we're working on now that we can activate them if necessary, that's what every country does, that's the usual way of doing it. Now with this contract, we've covered a complete operational transport program. In all other operational programmes, projects are either agreed or are under way. Because we're saying, as far as we're concerned, the story of six months of membership is over, we don't have a problem here. The challenge of course exists. The challenge exists and that is to be said publicly, a huge challenge is called the 2014 allocation of slightly less than a billion euros. So we have until 31. 12. In 2017, in Brussels, they became invoices where the EU's share of funding will be slightly less than a billion euros. On average, this means that invoices should be worth at least a billion and 300 to a billion and 400 million euros because it is a co-financing rate and about 70%. So if we could withdraw those billions of euros from the allotment we have to send at least 30% higher value invoices to Brussels and that's a real challenge. And it won't be easy, but that's what we're working on right now. That's what these government conclusions are for, where you can see the set deadlines for project preparation. And by that you measure us, take these documents, look at the dates and measure how successful we are. These are two conclusions that weigh about 12 billion kuna and with these two conclusions and some other additional grand schemes that we are preparing above all in rural development we are covering the 2014 Alocation for a billion euros, of course work continues. We should keep working. What's next? By the end of this year we are opening new competitions from the perspective of 2014-2020. We will open the tender before the operational programmes are adopted because we can because in negotiations with the European Commission we have achieved such a degree of security in what has been negotiated in operational programmes that we can go to the risk of tendering, we will not wait for formal adoption of the operational programme. One of the most important areas where we open up funds from the perspective of '14-20. is entrepreneurship. The first competition should be worth 180m euros. 180m euros have never been announced in the Republic of Croatia, such a value of tendering for entrepreneurship, direct support, grants, investment and jobs. 180 million euros. Plus a significant amount for entrepreneurship infrastructure. We are still negotiating within the ministry what amount it will be, it will not be less than 60m euros. Whether it's 60 or 70, that's what we'll see. So for entrepreneurship, when you sum up 250m euros by the end of this year, the latest start of next year, so I'm talking about January when I say it at the latest, given how much time it takes for the administration to complete the tender documentation. What am I saying? The programme process in the Republic of Croatia as far as we are concerned is not late, in any case. In addition to all our specificities, I have previously stated about the location of Croatia or other countries, we will have a partnership agreement in time, we will not be the last country in which a partnership agreement will be adopted, although we have been in the most difficult position, but we will not be the last country in which a partnership agreement will be adopted, that is certain. And the same thing is with operational programs. So far, since 196 operational programmes in Europe have been adopted 3. Ours certainly won't be among the last. And again, no matter when they're adopted, we're going with the competitions because we've achieved a high enough level of consent with the Commission on the content of the operational programmes. Specially significant funds will be in the field of rural development. So this is when I was talking about entrepreneurship, I was talking about out of rural development. The Rural Development Programme also prepares very valuable and significant competitions worth more than 2 billion kuna. And that's that chance, that's those investments, that's that investment cycle that should be started then. We are only talking about EU funds here. The 180m euros we plan to give from the EU funds directly to entrepreneurs, at least 2/3 will go to more private investments. At least 2/3. And that's the value, that's the added value of this whole story. When we talk about the difficult position of local self-government units, we are, of course, aware of the fiscal capacity of local self-government and we are very well aware of how many restrictions there are. And on that side, we are trying as much as possible to facilitate the position of local self-government units. Competitions will be signed tomorrow, i.e. contracts for projects worth 40m euros in the area of entrepreneurship and tourism infrastructure will be signed. Look at the percentage of co-financing by the state, and what is the percentage of co-financing by local self-government. Mr. Hrg knows very well about his project which received support and in the preparatory phase where we also funded consultants to provide them with technical assistance and project documentation and now they have received support that amounts to 99%, 98, okay. 98% gives state, part of it through EU funds, and part through the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development. If that's not help, then we don't know what help is. As for the less developed areas, and when it was an interpellation debate, we announced mechanisms that would give priority to certain areas, but we also said that because of a number of areas such as research and development, innovation, it is absolutely important for us to have the whole of Croatia participated. If we cannot have the City of Zagreb as a participant in the competition for research and development of innovation, we have no results, because it is really open to say that the concentration of capacity is also in the largest cities in Croatia. We have opened the possibility of 680m euros just for research and development to the perspective of 2014-2020. Never before has such a budget been in the Republic of Croatia. Only a small part of it goes to infrastructure works, only a small part of it. Most of it goes into concrete projects, with mandatory economic participation. In fact, 300 million or half of that amount goes to the private sector, at least from EU funds. But what do we do for less developed areas? Very soon you will see a tender that will also be from the field of entrepreneurship, e.g. information and communication technologies that will only be open to less developed areas. An entrepreneur from Zagreb will not be able to report, only the entrepreneur from Osijek-Baranja County, Sisak-Moslavina and other less developed areas will be able to report. Now these are the mechanisms we've been talking about and the mechanisms we're going to apply. So not only do we give priority to the selection of projects, so whoever owns the project from Koprivnica-križevci County is not in the same position as the project holder from Zagreb County because Koprivnica-križevska has a smaller development index, especially from Vukovar-Srijemska. They have an advantage. And look at 15 projects that will be agreed tomorrow worth 40 million euros from which the county comes. Much of the reasons why these projects are chosen, apart from quality, lies in additional points that they have achieved due to their degree of development, or underdevelopment, and this shows that really these methods that we use are successful and we will continue to try, we will make sure, we will improve even more statistics on the use of EU funds. I agree that maybe it's not clear enough. There's been a lot of debate today about these two charts, and these two graphs show only the state of things in two operational programs. There are many other competitions where regional distribution of funds should also be pointed out. Somewhere that makes sense, somewhere it doesn't. For example. in the waters, the most important thing for us is to cover as many agglomerations as possible by 2018, i.e. until 2023 when we have obligations under the accession agreement. So we are not looking at whether or not the area is developed, but we are really looking to fulfill as much of the obligations of the directive as possible. And in competitions such as entrepreneurship infrastructure, such as entrepreneurs themselves, such as education, we are very concerned about what this division on the ground looks like. And there we certainly want to have as much impact on where the funds go. And that's where we use all the mechanisms we have, and we have them to end up really where they need them most, where they're the weakest developed areas. Rural development. It was specifically mentioned by the previous speaker the problem of the population's borders. Therefore, for the period 2014, 2020 will not determine the area of investment in rural infrastructure beyond the size of the municipality, i.e. the city. So that border of 10,000 inhabitants is not a criterion. The criteria are the size of the settlement. So it's important if the settlement has 5 thousand inhabitants, below 5 thousand or more than 5 thousand inhabitants. All settlements with less than 5,000 inhabitants will be able to obtain funding from the Rural Development Programme for rural infrastructure except in the area of water infrastructure, i.e. water supply and waste water treatment where the limit is reduced to 2000. Therefore, the Rural Development Programme covers both water supply and disposal, but in settlements of up to 2,000 inhabitants. Everything above that covers the Operational Competitiveness and Cohesion Programme. As for employment, it was mentioned, so there were a lot of difficult formulations about some cutting, about hundreds of people who were out of work. I've been in this business since day one. I haven't seen the hundreds of people who lost their jobs. I only saw how many people were missing in the system and our first task was to increase the number of people in the system as much as possible. So, about any cutting I don't know or me we could have noticed at all. We could only do as much as we could to hire as many people. Of course, human fluctuations are the inevitable side effects of EU funds. It's a specific job. Knowledge in this business is very specific and the truth is very much sought in the private sector. And we're not so conditionally sorry that these people are going to the private sector, because these people are doing the same job on the other hand. These same people help local self-government, private entrepreneurs prepare the best projects and that's fine. Of course, it's not good when that fluctuation is too big because then the work of the state administration is disrupted, and then there's a problem. The fact is, since 1.7.2012, when we started working nets in plus about 150 people. So when we add up those we hired or transferred from other jobs to EU funds jobs and when we compare those who left the state service around 150 new people are employed in the system. And I'm saying, now we're preparing a new employment of 300 people who, according to our estimates, should be enough for the next year and a half to meet all the challenges and perspectives of 272-13 and 2.14, 2-20. Just a few more words, I haven't finished with local self-government about funding. Fiscal capacities, among other things, are planned to be supported through specific sources from the state level. Therefore, one solution is being prepared which should provide additional resources for, or specific funds for local self-government in assisted areas. Therefore, a special fund would be set up as a item in the Ministry of Regional Development to finance, so all activities to prepare and implement projects. I must point out that this fund already exists. So these funds that were received by the Crosses, which were received by the Carlovac, which received a series of other projects are precisely funds from that fund. But these funds need to be increased and fully directed to assisted areas. So far, such funds could have been used by other areas. As for other areas and here we look at how to assist other areas, how to provide funding for co-financing but this is the process under way. Negotiations are still in progress within the government. So I hope that we will be successful here too and that we will be able to get to you very soon with a solution that will cover all other units of local self-government, that in some way they will be provided with funds to co-finance the costs of covering their own local participation. But let us not forget in much part these problems are quite well - arranged, or quite well - solved. I'm just going to name two areas. One is water supply and disposal where the funding model was established two years ago and implemented, according to this model local self-government is participating between 5% and 9%. Everything else is on the burden of the state budget, i.e. the EU funds. We think that co-financing ratio is pretty fair. It also takes into account the degree of development, but 5% to 9% of the estimate is that it should be really realistically possible to secure by units of local self-government. And there's another thing about... The waste management centre where we have no participation of local self-government is exclusively about the division of liabilities between the central state and the county, where the county would assume 10% of co-financing costs and the state 90%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition, I must mention the HBOR credit lines that will be further improved in this sense in terms of the conditions to be offered. They are already very favourable, but they will be even more favourable and will follow a complete operational programme. So, completely all sorts of interventions in the 14th period. In addition, a special arrangement with the European Investment Bank is likely to be expected to provide the necessary liquidity. Therefore, in the event that liquidity really comes into question because of the state budget situation with this credit line, the liquidity required would be ensured so that project holders do not, in any event, face any difficulties with the payment of workers, i.e. the service provider. So that's how we think we're going to ensure smooth work for project promoters at the time of implementation. As for education and information, the latest data from my ministry says that more than 4,000 people at local level have passed a certain kind of education supported by the Ministry of Regional Development. And that's just for our ministry. I must point out that all resorient bodies actually have certain kinds of education depending on each area. But only what we financed through county development agencies, over 4,000 people in 3 years passed a certain kind of education. We have launched a unique web portal where all the competitions, where you can see which competitions are in the announcement, you can see what kind of documentation is needed for individual competitions, you can see what these are strategic documents. So, all of this we talked about today you can find on that web portal, and you can also find a calendar of education for all of Croatia. So if we're going to talk about that segment, I think we're doing a lot. Of course, it's never enough. We will continue to step up our education efforts, which we have assessed as one specific area where we need more investment. But let's not forget the complete story of the implementation of EU projects is the story of the implementation of investments in Croatia. And all that has been mentioned today from spatial planning to land purchase to public procurement remains critical points of implementation of EU funds in Croatia. And these are the things that we have to do in parallel, and we can't forget that it's all part of one package. So we believe that, there were mentions so does the government do anything to prioritize EU funds cases? The government has also made some steps here so that all those grand schemes and all those projects that have entered into the government's conclusion are marked as priority and a series of bodies, from courts to the State Commission for Public Procurement Procedures, to the Office of State Administration are informed of this and all the cases that are in them are therefore marked. They are aware of what cases are priority for resolving the EU fund. In addition, in the Strategic Investments Act, you know that there is a special category relating to EU funds projects where the threshold is down to 75 million kuna and such projects have already been given the status of strategic projects. So on this side, we are trying to put the maximum issue of using EU funds in the first place and other bodies that are very important for the overall implementation. But again and on this side I urge all representatives, all those involved in the work of local self-government to do more to develop awareness of the importance of this topic in local self-government. You can see exactly the difference between local self-government which has long become aware of this and which our standard clients are in competitions and local self-government which is still not up-to-date enough in this regard. In particular, we have great needs from cities, so with cities in general we are still not satisfied at which level they are prepared and at which level they are ready for this match that starts for the period 2014-2020. And we see that some smaller environments are much better actually teamed up and prepared and filled more active than some larger environments. And the truth is, without big cities, we won't be able to tell this story, especially in some key areas such as transport infrastructure and water infrastructure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89121	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas. Dinko Buric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89122	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Deputy Minister, for the first time, Bulgaria-Romania-Polish. We are not looking for role models in Bulgaria and Romania, nor should we only call on Poland, we should watch where we are at the moment. We're not in a good position, that's true and that's true. When we talk about the merger of structural instruments, so these 450 million IPA programs. You're talking about a billion and 269 million euros. That is true, but 819m euros are still from pre-accession programmes. 819 refers to what we shouldn't have paid for, and we're already paying the membership fee. So we're saying that when we do the numbers, we do the numbers, we add the pears and apples together. We're worried that in a year and a half, 5.5 billion of our money from the budget, and that we haven't withdrawn what's at our disposal, and there's almost nothing even though there are projects that have passed, but compared to the payments, it's not enough. Fiscal capacity, so it doesn't turn out I'm just a critic, I'm not. I'll open it up, here's what I always say is right, what's wrong, what's wrong. There are positive examples. Here's from your personal experience as a city. You mentioned HBOR, excellent. They showed up, I have such an experience, as a very expeditional one, done the job in a surprising time frame for me. Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Culture in several things, Croatian Water, Ministry of Agriculture, which I often have very large objections to in several things have done good jobs. Positive examples should be commended for being a motive for others to act like one. But if we say something's wrong, then it's wrong. It's not about telling you what's wrong. It's about changing what's wrong. We don't use enough resources, and that's a fact. It's only in good faith that we point to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89123	Thank you. Deputy, will you answer? Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89124	What is most important is the following, so by the end of this year or at the latest in January, let's say February, will be agreed, so I hope indeed for this long Selo-Kryzevci that a complete allocation from the IPA will be agreed and from the first 6 months of membership. I'm only putting a fence on that IPA first component because it's really specific and it's contracted to one of its own during which it's completely different from what we call structural funds so we put it on the side, it's from the IPA '13, IPA '12, IPA '11. But for what's key and what's development and what we've been saying today, what these funds are going for and what they're for, they're structural instruments. So in the next four to five months, we'll have all the funds set up. And that's a good result for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89125	Thank you. Djuro Drinker, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89126	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy, now it doesn't matter what happened, justifying the figures, whether they ever retreated more or less, it's much more important whether we're all going to be able to do what was right in front of us because the money that stands at our disposal can save Croatia. And that's what's important is exactly what you're just saying in this last address of yours. So, I'm asking you very specifically, you mentioned the means of entrepreneurship, I listened very carefully. I ask you, when will the competitions from the rural development programme be called, so measures... support for investment in agricultural economies? What will be the amount, how long will the tender take, how much will the funds be available, when will the rules that are not available be published? You said you'd call a tender whether or not a contract was signed, an operational program. And that perhaps another important question, how are you going to prevent these funds, these funds from being purchased by so-called big players, but from being used exactly what they were created for, which is to raise small and medium-sized farms and entrepreneurs who, believe me, are able to do so? Croatia has a sufficient amount of creative, smart and capable entrepreneurs waiting in line and waiting for these funds to come once and start implementing projects. They will certainly know the quality consultants to choose, and your task is to prepare the state infrastructure to be a help, not a brake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89127	Thank you, too. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89128	As far as rural development is concerned, the tender for the implementation of the measure... investment in physical property, sub-measure... support for investment in agricultural holdings should be open, so by March at the latest. We believe it will be before, worth 2.7 billion kuna. As for the tender for implementation of the measure... investment in physical assets, under the... support for investment in the processing, marketing or development of agricultural products, one billion 150 million kunas, we also expect by March. So I hope it pleases you. One more thing, it was mentioned that the OPGs cannot be users, today during the debate, so the OPG's main users were measures 101 and that is also the answer to your question, you can see by users, when you look at the user list from... that they are mostly OPGs, small and medium-sized enterprises, there are not many large entities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89129	Thank you. Next line, Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89130	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Deputy, I'd like to say two things to you. You say, as I am pleased to hear, that you will call a tender without adopted operational programmes and have announced that by the end of January at the latest, however, this is not in line with what the Transport Commissioner is saying,... which speaks of the possibility of delivering funds only after strategic documents, only after the partnership agreement, only after the operational programme, after the final feasibility study. For example, there is a pre-study of feasibility, there is no talk of any means until the final feasibility study, therefore I find it in a certain way inconsistencies. On the other hand, it is good that the government advocates strengthening the fiscal capacity of local self-government in order to apply, prepare documentation, etc. But you know very well that by abolishing the Law on PPDS, we have reduced funds to these same units of local self-government, for example based on income tax, 37%. If it were in the announcement, we'll probably see if that law will also go into change when... the state budget for next year, the change of the Income Act, where we take 2.5 billion kuna to local self-government units. So, on the one hand, it's good that you're trying to strengthen local self-government units in a fiscal sense, especially for these purposes you're talking about, strengthen their fiscal capacity with certain resources that will go towards local self-government units, but on the other hand, this House is povertying them by laws. Here, just two examples show us that in the following year we will only be through the law that has been announced and which will likely be here in the Assembly together with the adoption of the Budget Law. And one more thing, if I only have a short time, I'm sorry that we left... who could have made this possible the same thing you're talking about right now, and now you're already announcing another credit program that will be practically on track... and you had it in the ministry, you should just keep it going.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89131	Thank you. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89132	As for..., there was already talk about it, so you know that we... first of all because it was credit, it was a credit arrangement, so a loan that someone would have to repay, and this credit arrangement with... was made in a way that exclusively monitors EU-funded projects and thus contributes... EU funds which was not the case with.... As far as the Peljega Bridge is concerned, every major infrastructure project is a story for itself and so is the Peljega Bridge. So there are some other steps that need to be done in the case of the Peljega Bridge, you know what it's about. Therefore, a feasibility study should be carried out and if the study shows that the Pelješki bridge is the best solution, so the funds are provided for its financing. I think that's what's most important. There was still a question, I'm sorry, about the fiscal.....the Intruder doesn't understand. Well, this is now a topic for, above all, for colleagues from the Ministry of Finance, I will just say in front of the Ministry of Regional Development, it is important that as soon as possible this new categorization on areas based on the Index of Development takes full effect that this parallelism, i.e. the existence of the system and the BPP, the mountainous areas and the PPDS, and the assisted areas by the development index, finally end. 100 units of local self-government designated as being less developed according to the development index is currently outside of any aid system, so no kuna is received from the state budget. At the same time, 60 and some units receive state aid although according to the development index they do not justify it. So it's really one priority for them, and we believe that with these 100 units of local self-government, we're going to raise their absorption capacity very well, and they're in that group of most needed ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89133	Thank you. And the last replica, Marian Skuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89134	Thank you, Vice President. In your debate, you mentioned many things that are very important to me that we can successfully apply and use EU funds. You specifically pointed out and I agree with that, and that's a matter of funding, first of all... financing local administrations in a way to finance previous documentation and only financing certain participations in project implementation, most often it is 15%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But that's where the problem is at that level where you mentioned that in the future, that part of five funding and funding will be able to achieve only assisted areas that will be less than 75% at the rate of development. So far, it was possible that others could use those funds. In my view, it was still more correct because anyone has an indexation, or a degree of development below 100% of it needs support, needs help. And here I suggest that this be left behind, and it is only questionable whether those areas that have below 75% are primarily projected and organised and whether they can use these support or whether they have projects at all. Only today should an analysis be made of how many building permits have been issued or at least a request for issue will see the right state as many projects we have that need to co-finance from that level, at least from assisted areas and other levels. You also mentioned that HBOR credit lines can be used. There is the biggest liquidity problem, there are a lot of local administrations, cities and municipalities that are essentially inequitable thanks to work primarily by their leaders that have been brought into great losses. They will hardly be able to use such HBOR credits as well as any commercial banks because they do not have references to those levels. So we have to solve liquidity, but not in a way that we can make certain losses, doubies one time, so that they can use the funds, but in some other system, we can force them into savings so they can get the funds and only then can they use them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89135	Thank you. Answer. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89136	We'll consider this proposal. And those below 100% of the development index, so these are also less developed areas. They do not have a support classification but they are certainly also in a difficult position. And so, since this program is under way, we're going to consider that variant.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89137	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later. I would like to thank Deputy Minister Jakshi Pugliz.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89138	Report on the use of pre-accession aid programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2013. The debate on the report is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: "The report on the use of pre-accession assistance programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2013 is hereby adopted. "years." Please, let's vote. The vote is closed. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes are 83 for, four abstentions and 15 against the proposed conclusion. In line with the proposal of the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes every 6 months to submit a full report to the Croatian Parliament on the use of pre-accession EU assistance programmes and European structural instruments with special reference to planned and unused programmes, withdrawn unused funds, and possible fraud and irregularities in the process of using EU funds." Please, let's vote. The vote is closed. I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously, with 102 votes, we have reached the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89139	We continue with: - Report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2013; Report on the achievement of the budget of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2013. The Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency submitted a report in accordance with Article 33. Law on energy regulation. You've received the motion for an act. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. With us is a representative of the proposer, President of the Management Council Tomislav Jurekovic. Please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89140	Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, it is my pleasure to have the opportunity to try to present a brief report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2013 together with a report on the implementation of the budget. How you all saw a document that is quite extensive and contains one particular form of presentation of statistics on the regulatory aspects of energy in the Republic of Croatia. I will try to give a brief introduction or bring some important points and some common elements by which this report may vary, or the results of 2013 from those of previous seasons. I hope that all of this will not be too tiring, and above all, it is important and because in 2013 it is indeed a different year than all the years before in the Regulatory Agency's life. Nothing after 1.7 for the regulation of energy in the Republic of Croatia is the same anymore. If we lived up to 1.7 in the context of meeting that level of rules of the common market game and the energy concept of Europe that we know as a directive or level of the third energy package. Then we set out to level 2.7 of binding regulations. So, one broad set of regulations that should be applied in this country, and if for no other reason then in 2013 it is precisely because of that moment that it will remain for the Regulatory Agency a capital date. Let me just briefly remind you that the Regulatory Agency was founded in 2001, that it is an independent institution tasked with controlling primarily that energy component that we know as natural monopolies. Therefore, the public interest is reflected in that act which cannot be fully excluded by market law. As a result, the Regulatory Agency controls primarily what we know as networks, gas systems while the production sides and sales sides of energy chains are essentially left to the market. This is the integrated concept that the EU has adopted since 2001 and the adoption of the concept of the Energy Strategy of the Republic of Croatia and the reform of the energy sector, which means that the market is the main criterion within which and within which the operations of energy companies where energy consumers meet their needs are being carried out. HERA therefore has a role to play on the one hand to carry out this traditional regulation, to control natural monopolies, however, and I am now returning to the beginning of my 2013 exhibition, it is also becoming a lever in some way a single EU strategy, it must in some ways control the dynamics of developing Croatia's single energy market as a single energy market in Europe, which primarily refers to the electricity and gas markets. But the steps have already been made to integrate the rest of the energy scene into such concepts. So the regulatory agency has some extended powers, and in each case in 2013, it sat down as our Slovenian colleagues say on an accelerated train and it marked not only the other half but it marks our work and our activities until today's work, and at that point we will probably work for another time. I reminded you of HERA's tasks in some way, but it is not to be explained because some times there is confusion as to how, despite these broad powers, the regulatory agency, and precisely because of its independent position, the reasons why the regulatory agency is known is defined by law and is placed in the Corps of each of the European countries in a way that protects customers of the interest of energy entities, the guarantee to investors for stability in the conditions in which they operate, and for all of this, it needs such a position as Croatian laws and define it, so an agency that does not finance itself through a state budget that has its independence and in relation to the other bodies and submits its report and has responsibility above all towards the Croatian Assembly. Three basic tasks, three basic elements stemming from and such a year 2013 for the regulatory agency and what our efforts have been focused on and what I hope you will be able to assess and assess to what extent we have successfully done them. One single market, therefore the process of fitting into the rules of the game, but through the rakurs of Croatia, Croatian customers, Croatian energy. The second is the establishment of a sustainable energy framework. This does not just mean sustainable use of renewable energy sources and meeting European and Croatian targets by 2020, this means both elemental economic sustainability, which means not only concern about applying game rules but also about making the systems that are being put in place economically sustainable over the longer term. And on the third hand is the position of the customer, which the regulator protects, and which the regulator must underline that in this dynamic in the years that have taken place and which the customer is coming is not only a protected party, but a customer of the energy purchaser is telling which must be active and responsible in realising the objectives of the single energy market. The market opens an equal playground, the regulator is a kind of judge of equality on that playground, but all the participants of that market both the entities and each individual customer in order to obtain benefits and to benefit from the open market must be placed in a significantly more active and responsible role, it is a responsibility to subdue their obligations, it is a responsibility in the final line towards learning and the use of the chance. This literally concerns everyone and there is another task of the regulator to try to clarify and bring it closer and activate the entire market in its fullness. When I say responsibility comes from a local level, it also has a European dimension. HERA became a member of two European level organisations in 2013 and is one of the Council of European Regulators, a body that is one of the main consultants for the European Commission and, in any case, a consultant for all regulatory aspects in energy, and the other is the Agency for the Cooperation of European Regulators in Ljubljana. We became members of this society, and I also had the undeserved honor of being elected as one of the CERA vice presidents in 2014 but it gave us another new component in our work. So we have now come relatively close to the place where decisions are made at the regulatory level that they have over the years of repercussion, which, of course, puts in front of all of us additional tasks, which tests our knowledge to the maximum and puts one space of accelerated work in front of us on several fronts. At cleaning up the problem that I repeat in regulatory aspects over 20 or 25 years, because we are not the creators of the strategy, we are not the executioners, we are the controllers and we are looking out for the regulatory part of the story. Anything that may not have been agreed for 20 or 25 years must be put into order very quickly, must be filled in. At the same time, Croatian laws must become fully compatible with European laws so that they are now the second year in a row in which the regulations are continuously abdicated and at a level that I admit sometimes confuses both entities and all others. It's a huge number of documents and extremely complex matter. The third dimension is the fact that even in the EU, documents have not been frozen that this is a scene where energy is very much done and has changed very much. So the regulator also has a situation where three moving targets are trying to hit at the same time, which I hope at least works partially. The main part of this report you have in front of you is the review of 4 basic segments of energy activity in Croatia, so the electricity, and then the most often connected segment of renewable sources and energy efficiency, natural gas and oil and thermal energy are thus presented here. And I'm just going to try to briefly comment on all these sectors through 3 to 4 themes one of which is the legal framework. So I'm just repeating that in the last 2 years starting at the end of 2012 and in the first half of 2013, the Energy Act has been set up, the electricity and gas market laws have been set up and the Energy Regulatory Act has been set up which determines how we try to do our job. Afterwards they started to implement at other levels. Heat energy also received a new Heat Act in the second part of 2013, a law that represents a pretty brave step and requires a lot of effort to implement both us and all the other participants. He's doing even a step before, a step forward in the direction of the market on the part where he's practically never been before. So the legal framework is one of the areas where you work very intensively by switching to all the more detailed documents that have the character of what national action plans are, the methodology for certain regulated parts of this job, which sublegal acts of the other type. A huge job that's about halfway through to catch what's actually over already today, not over but is now a legal obligation. This is what we all forget about sometimes, the European Union regulations are at the same time part of Croatia's legal corps, which means that every day it binds each one of us. Of course, this does not mean that we are necessarily in an enormous delay, it just means that we do not have time for these adjustments, that it makes us rhythmize to bring similar papers, to check them, and to see how they can function in Croatian practice and also adapt that practice to documents. The second often used term when we watch the entire energy scene in Croatia are classic elements, what is the price, what is the security of supply, what is the end line market. I'll start at the back. The market in the Republic of Croatia and we are primarily talking about electricity and natural gas because I remind that is the basic part of the single European energy market opened since 2007 and 2008 respectively, it has been formally opened. What happened in the meantime with the adaptation of the documents currently in force in the European Union is also something called the real opening of the market. The opening of the market means enabling in those parts that can function as according to the market legislators real competition, which means removing price regulation, enabling clear game rules and then offering the choice of energy buyers. This began in 2012 and especially in 2013 and to this day there is one quite exponential growth. In electricity, the opening of the market, there was also a level of retailing. You all know that in Croatia today we have three suppliers of electricity to households, that there are 7 to 8 bidders at the wholesale level. In gas on the other side of the picture is similar. At the wholesale level, there are 6 to 7 active players of which 3 are practically 30% of the market. A drastic change from two years ago. In some parts of the sector, this has already yielded sensitive results. For example, natural gas on the wholesale market segment already has serious signals that individual customers are in a situation to get several offers, to reduce margins and all those signals that show that this is a complicated market that really requires an awful lot of effort and creates objective problems for traditional players on the market have already begun to produce results. At the wholesale level and at the level of industrial customers, we have positive results in reducing prices both on the electricity side and on the gas side. The one where certain players on the natural gas side had previously dominated is almost gone. The sales level in 2014 is still a significant shift compared to what was presented in this report. So instead of dominating one participant you have at least 3 who almost equally share the area of wholesale. Electric wholesale is also becoming more playful. It is expected that this will begin in the retail business and also in the households. I remind you that the ultimate objective of the entire energy reform, the whole concept of the single European market, is to penetrate the market into all sales branches, which means also in households. This in other words means that we, as a regulator in the perspective from the next 2 to 3 years, see also the extraction from the regulation of prices in households. What will certainly remain will remain individual categories of customers who will have a regulated price. It's going to stay so-called. guaranteed supply or supply in need, no one will be left to the loss of the energy supplier. For all this expensive and legislator and we as regulators still need to work a lot, but today's situation is on its way to something that we will have as a complete price deregulation. Only certain categories of customers in both gas and electricity will have a protected, guaranteed price, everything else at the moment when the market is sufficiently objective and strong, when there will be enough bidders will be the result of both supply and demand. There are already steps in 2013 and especially in 2014 in this direction. Security of supply, the elements of which I say the regulator is partly concerned. Global security of energy supply is something the ministry does, something that is done at a strategic level. So when we talk about global energy supply, we can notice it but it's not the primary role of regulators, so I wouldn't want to bother you with that, although the data on this material is also available. Both on the side of electricity and on the side of gas, we have a drop in consumption that has been continuous for two to three years. It is essentially due to recession movements and, in part, to the specific role of natural gas, which is relatively high prices, so it already shows negative consequences. So Europe has a very specific situation regarding gas and gas competitiveness has been questionable to some extent in recent years, and this is also reflected in the Croatian market. So to return the moment to the current, the Croatian market in terms of sales, in terms of consumption of counter-hires for the third year in a row, came to some 17.3 terawatt hours, which is thanks to very good hydrological conditions of all around 2 terawatts of hours after imports. However, import as a fact is something that should be slowly introduced by a different kind of thinking. By entering the single European market, the categories of imports receive a different dimension. Of course, each country retains its strategic commitment in terms of which part of the electricity will generate itself, which part of the energy will produce itself. However, by connecting in security concepts in supply, we are increasingly talking about regional security and also about continental security. The second aspect, which is closer to the regulator, is the conditionality of the technical aspect of security, so how reliable the supply is, what are the losses. That's what's regulatory. If I need to recapitulate, I could say that both in electricity and in gas, the situation with practical security of supply in 2013 is good to date. Infrastructured electricity has been in pretty good shape for years. After connecting with Hungary, natural gas has received another international interconnector and has the possibility of gas supply again. Therefore, supply is not questionable unless there are certain crisis situations for which the State is re-prepared in a certain way. As far as electricity is concerned, supply is also satisfactory but there is one specific dimension. The entry of renewable sources into the electricity system raises specific problems. The Croatian electricity system has installed around 4400 megawatt production capacities. About 400, so somewhere close to 10% of that is renewable sources. First of all, we're talking about the wind, the smaller part of the sun. All those affirmative features of the use of renewable sources and everything that makes Croatia actually trend and trace European dynamics, have its second dimension, have a dimension of the system that needs to be continuously developed and which must be able to accept the character of a source such as wind and sun. It's those who produce electricity when the wind, or the sun, has. It all implicates so-called. The secondary and tertiary regulation through which the electricity system is able to accept such irregularly intermediate sources. I am only saying all this because I would stress that it is necessary for both us and this report that we are trying to build over the years towards something which is of dry statistics and a kind of document that notices trends and which makes certain observations from the position of our regulators. The electrical energy system and each energy system should be looked at in its integrity, not only should it rely on the fact that there is one positive side, such as the ecological component of renewable sources. It should also be seen, on the other hand, in terms of its cost, in terms of the way in which such systems are encouraged, their sustainability and what is necessary on the system in order for the system to suffer. In natural gas due to the specificity of relatively high prices, because of the fact that only the last 10 years have seriously invested in gas infrastructure we also come into the need for full system thinking and sustainability. Our gas infrastructure is relatively expensive. If this means its relative incompetence, then we need to think about what kind of tariff it should be that will aliminate such investments. This is more of an illustration of possible problems, an illustration of the fact that energy problems are not one-dimensional, that they can't be fashionable in any case, so it's also the job of long-term regulators. So much for a brief review of the situation in the sectors. Finally, I would like to say something that is a very safe area in which there is a large area for increasing activity, which is a component of communication, information and customer position. So this is something that the regulator will have to find, even with such limited resources of human resources, not necessarily because the regulator is not ready to hire but the fact that it is very specific knowledge that is not easy to find, for which people are not easily motivated and where it is not easy to be compatible with the private sector. However, in any case, the regulator will find and will have to find the strength to communicate more strongly with customers and to interpret as strongly as possible and generally improve this two-way relationship. I can tell you from our own experience that we have made a huge effort to achieve dialogue with energy subjects. In the last year to the year and a half, a tremendous effort has been made to ensure that no document that the regulator is working on without prior consultations and communication with the entities. It's not always a grateful job. The regulator stands in the middle, between entities who are always too low for any price and customers who are too high for any price. I'm banalizing. But dialogue requires some patience, but this is the patience we have managed to engage in energy subjects, and we will also have to find it for customers. So we're going to have to change the formats of our communication, we're going to have to change its intensity. I hope that some of this will be seen in the next report, because in 2014 we tried to make some shifts, but it is our permanent task. So let me try to conclude. The future of regulation should, in any case, be the continuation of these efforts, their intensification, confirmation and independent disposition, because let's not be fooled, always the regulator will be under the pressure of actors on the energy market, but it is also his mission to resist these pressures. So the European Union's single energy market is a project that is almost uncomplicated by its complexity and consistency as comparable in the world. A liberal concept of market-led energy and energy exists in parts of the United States, exists in Australia, exists in New Zealand, some parts of Latin America. But a consistent policy that has put all the cards on the market as the European Union has done requires a huge effort, requires a complex mechanism that continues to develop and the regulator there needs to continue really in that position with its role as the Croatian law has given it... in this direction in favour of customers, investors and entities. In that triangle, the regulator is some sort of guarantee in the middle. We're going to need people to do that, we're going to need good people who are not always easy to find and simply because of the specific knowledge, but that's why we're in that place. I'd like to conclude briefly, given that I'm a professional energy man, I'm just going to briefly comment on the financial side that you also have in the second part. Therefore, the report on the implementation of the budget reminds HERA is not financed from the state budget but is financed through fees for working in regulatory activities as the law has also written down. In practice, they relate to 0.5 of the turnover of those energy entities licensed by the regulatory agency, i.e. to which it gives market entry, which in our terms means an annual budget of 4m euros. In European terms, it is a relatively modest budget, but a budget that is solid enough and sufficiently robust so that it can maintain our jobs. For the next few years, he'll probably be like that. HERA's income and HERA's expenditure grew by 14% and 15%, respectively. So the costs are up to something. However, the HERA is still doing a very positive job. It also generates surpluses due to the fact that the upcoming expenditures relating above all to information systems in which the Croatian regulator will fit into control and information networks, European regulatory networks and some study materials whose dimensions are still pending, so far these tenders have not been announced. We believe that with those reserves we have, we will be able to finance for the next few years. The results are in front of you. There's a fat report full of numbers in front of you, and I apologize for the mistakes, and I apologize for the tipfellers, and I hope you'll accept this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89141	Thank you, too, President of the Board of Directors. We have one replica, Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89142	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Jurekovic. You are certainly aware that this Parliament has adopted the Energy Efficiency Act and that this law requires the implementation of the third energy package objectives under which the Republic of Croatia is obliged to implement energy savings by 2020, i.e. to raise energy efficiency by 20% compared to the 1990 base year. This law obliges energy distributors to implement the stated objectives and in a certain way the obligation is made that, under the Energy Act, the distributor should not also be a supplier of energy to the final buyer. I don't see that link how and in what way distributors can answer for something that I can't in direct consumption realize. And if these objectives are not realised under the law, they will have to pay compensation or a better sentence to the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund because these objectives could not be established. It's almost like I'm paying the fine because you didn't tie up while you were driving, so I'm looking at such a provision of the law. Why do I ask you that? For the reason that you as market regulator can be on the occasion that the distributor will not be able to pay this fee because energy savings and increased energy efficiency in construction, for example, have not been implemented in the Republic of Croatia, for example, will be forced to come into a position that has to increase the price of electricity because of the need for this fee, because the objectives are not to achieve the payment of the fund. As HERA also seems to me in law to be one of the bodies that implements the Energy Efficiency Act itself and in what way do you look at such a provision and whether it is at all enforceable and how distributors, how the mechanism will be established that distributors can fulfil on the one hand the obligation imposed by the law and, on the other hand, pay compensation from unsecured assets.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89143	Thank you. Mr. Jurekovic will respond to the replica. Here you go. From where you can only turn the microphone on.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89144	Well, thanks for asking. I mean, to the extent that I may be able to comment briefly rather than answer. The regulator, therefore, is not in this sense the creator of energy efficiency policy, although we in this law have found ourselves in a lot of control and control functions, something that we ourselves will have to look at and create some additional capacities that we will have to fulfil. I agree with you that this law also puts distributors ahead of some new assignments. On the one hand, I would like to answer in a way that I know how much I know the law has announced in a rather short and really challenging short period of adoption of a series of implementing acts, the adoption of 7 to 8 if I am not wrong even by the rules, documents from which it will be very likely to be more clearly classified as how the legislator imagined the realization of this. We, as a regulator, will accept every reasonable cost as we have done so far. So if we estimate the cost justifiable then we'll translate it into tariffs. In this respect, it should not exclude the possibility of certain consequences also occurring in the tariff. However, I hope that there will also be clear tools in the implementing acts in which the legislator expects distributors to do so. Otherwise, for the time being, I would answer only with this restraint that we have to create as regulator mechanisms of implementation, which is something we have not had in practical terms of words so far. However, by verifying and comparing the law with the directive. We must say that we have established that the law has actually followed the directive, which means that the options provided in the directive have in some way been implemented in the very text of the law. What will be the most challenging is how implementation of this will be written in the implementing documents, especially because the deadline is relatively short for them, but this will be a challenge. I can only comment once again that as much as I understand the position of distribution in this context I must say that before distribution the challenge is general, because the position of distributors as those in direct contact with customers in the future will change not only because of efficiency but also because of some other practical things. So distribution will be a field in which many things will happen in the coming years. All concepts of smart grids, smart criteria will finally be realised through distribution. That's why neither us nor them will be easy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89145	Thank you, President of the Board of Directors. Try to limit the future replicas to two minutes. Try to sum it up. But for the sake of interest and for the sake of the public and for the sake of us here, I've estimated it's good to hear your answer. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a club debate. On behalf of the club of Independent Representatives Grubisic-Kain, there is no. They're losing their right to debate. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representative Marijan Skvarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89146	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable President of the Board of Directors, colleagues and colleagues. The report on the work of HERA for 2013 processed analyses of the energy sector, the electricity sector, the natural gas sector, oil, oil products and biofuels, as well as the heat energy sector. In 2013, the most important event is the treatment of the national energy market, and this can also be seen as the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU. Thus HERA became a member of the Council of European Regulators and of the Board of Coordination of Regulators. Thus, the structure of the report corresponds to what these bodies prescribe, i.e. The reports are technically correct, they deal with statistical indicators, there are certain trends in Croatian energy, and they also refer to the control and... markets, and they also make recommendations on how the market should behave. The integration of national electricity and natural gas markets into the EU's single internal market, the creation of long-term assumptions for energy sustainable development with adequate roles of renewable energy efficiency and the activation of customers as responsible factors in the energy market pose a lasting challenge in the development of Croatian energy regulation. For example, during 2013, preparatory actions have been launched to certification transport or transmission system operators and sensitive procedures, to demonstrate compliance of the organisation of national operators with the requirements of the third EU energy package. In March 2013, the new Electricity Market Act also entered into force. HERA also adopted in 2013 a methodology for the determination of the amount of tariff items for the guaranteed electricity supply and the determination of the amount... for the supply of electricity in the context of the foreign service as well as the methodology for determining the prices for the calculation of electricity on... entities responsible for the derogation. When we talk about what the HERA report brings, then we can talk about the entire energy sector system. First of all, when we talk about the electricity sector, then in 2013, it marked a further drop in electricity consumption as a result of a reduction in economic activity. At the same time, a drop in electricity imports was also reported, primarily due to an increase in the production of electricity in hydroelectric power plants, i.e. due to good ideological conditions. ... The power on the threshold of the power plants on the territory of the Republic of Croatia at the end of 2013 was 4252 megawatts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] HEP is also co-owner of NE Krško in the Republic of Slovenia and has 50% power and power plant, i.e. 1048 megawatts. Imports of electricity in 2013 amounted to 26% of total electricity consumption in the Republic of Croatia, which means we still have plenty of room to improve our production so that we do not depend on imports. When we talk about the power generation system from the plant using renewable energy sources and cogeneration plants on 31 December there were 679 plants and 310.3 megawatts total. In 2013, this status was achieved by 65 plants, a total power of 123 megawatts. Of which there were most solar power plants, but the largest total power had 15 power plants, and that is the wind power plant that is 45 megawatts. Here, I can say that with this week in Croatia we have an increased power of 1 megawatt where here is a new solar energy plant built right here in the area of my town, the town of Lepoglava. When we talk about the security of electricity supply, which is very important not only for the economy of Croatia but also for our consumers so that we can say that the level of security in the supply of electricity is currently satisfactory. However, it can deteriorate significantly in the period until 2020. In this period, it is necessary to withdraw about 1100 megawatts of power from the existing thermal power plants. The requirement of maintaining the security of electricity supply is to build new production units. It should be warned that unless it is accompanied by the construction of classical power plants, only the construction of renewable energy sources will, in particular, not solve the problems of the system's security in itself. When we talk about the natural gas energy sector, we define that the market opening process continues in 2013 through the entry of new market participants and strengthening competition, while reducing market concentration. In February 2014, the new Gas Market Act entered into force. On the basis of the law mentioned, HERA has adopted a number of sublegal acts, general conditions of gas supply, network rules of the distribution system, methodologies and decisions... items for the transport, storage and distribution of gas of such other legal provisions. When we talk about the entire gas system, we can define that on a wholesale level in 2013 an average of 80% of the shares by sold quantities of gas was taken up by natural gas d.o.o., while 20% of the shares were occupied by 7 other suppliers active in the wholesale gas market. As a direct consequence of the liberalisation of the open natural gas markets or the change in gas suppliers at wholesale level in January 2014 the share of natural gas as a dominant supplier was reduced to 68%. And also during 2013 there has been significant progress in the process of opening the market for new market participants and thus strengthening competition in the retail segment of the gas market. We can therefore note that, as a consequence of the development of the gas market, there is also a noticeable reduction in the sustainable prices of gas for industrial customers in the Republic of Croatia. When we speak as an energy activity of oil and petroleum products supply, we can define that in the Republic of Croatia this is done by INA by producing oil derivatives in oil refineries in Rijeka and Sisak and on the ethnic plant of ethanol in Ivanić City. They include motor fuels and fuel for industries and households. As raw materials for the production of petroleum products, crude oil from imports consisting of 82% and crude oil and condensate and produced, produced on the domestic market, in oil and gas fields, which account for 18%. So we notice that unfortunately there is still a large share of oil and oil imports. The energy activity of oil and petroleum products storage in 2014 was carried out by 21 energy entities. A total available storage capacity is 2.1 million metres cubic. The energy activity of oil transport in the Republic of Croatia is carried out by the Adriatic pipeline. And a new law has also been passed that market for liquid oil derivatives and... the gas is defined as open in terms of price formation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, security of oil supply in view of the formation of the quantity of mandatory oil supplies, oil derivatives. HANDA is obliged to form mandatory stocks at the level of a 10-day average consumption. In energy activity, the most significant change for the sector in 2014 was the adoption of the Law on the heat market. This law has brought significant newspapers to the organisation, organisation and functioning of the heat energy sector with the aim of developing the market, encouraging new investments, complementary systems and creating opportunities for a better and more efficient relationship between participants in the heat energy market, and also defining the legal frameworks of the new energy service with the aim of increasing energy efficiency in buildings to reduce heat consumption and reduce negative environmental impacts. HERA participates actively in the field of consumer protection at a higher level within its competence, through the exercise of supervision of energy entities, supervision of the quality of energy services and through the collection and processing of data relating to the activity of energy entities in the field of consumer protection, as well as the resolution of individual complaints and complaints of customers and the basis of public powers under the Energy Activity Regulation Act. HERA achieves active international co-operation with both country regulators in the region and with EU Member States regulators. And most of the cooperation takes place through membership in European level regulatory bodies associations, i.e. the level of European regions, as well as in the expert working groups of those associations. When we also define the level of the financial part of the action of HERA, i.e. the 2014 budget, revenues amounted to less than 30 million kuna. Most of the incomes account for almost 10% of the revenue from the fees for carrying out energy activities. And these revenues are about 15% higher than the previous budget year. The expenditure was also up to 21 million kuna, 15% higher, but the cost structure accounts for 65% for salaries and contributions, and material expenditures of 28%. These expenditures shall consist of 4 members of the Governing Council and 58 employees in professional services. Finally, what we really want to point out is that energy, energy area in the Republic of Croatia is very important, it is important for the independent functioning of the economy, the functioning of relations between both sellers, both customers, citizens and in all of this work to note that the report mentions how the market is controlled and supervised. From this recommendation that was passed, I think we can be satisfied with that report. So the HNS club of liberal Democrats will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89147	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Đuro Popiac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89148	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your support from the bench. I'm generally sorry that these topics usually come from energy this afternoon, it's such a fixed rule that it's already likely to be interpreted as intentional. So I don't remember that some law in this area that's too important, and already today, the law that was passed on Friday, was extremely important at 8:00 p.m., and everyone else. This may be an accident, but here I am sorry that it is likely that the circle of those who are following these discussions is reduced, primarily from the media, because in these discussions there is really something to hear, and what citizens can feel directly because of the acrobatics that this government has been spending in this sector for the past two and three years, respectively. So, as is said, this HERA report provides a series of information on the state of the energy sector in the Republic of Croatia and information on key developments affecting the sector, so not only on the work of the agency itself. Therefore, it is always a valuable document that when compared to earlier years, therefore, one who is interested in it can see what is essentially happening in this sector. And lately very important things have happened. So, as the introduction said, in 2013, it marked very live legislative activity which is necessary and necessary, and more often unnecessary and confusing, and which continues in 2014. And yet again, I mention the last unfortunate Energy Efficiency Act that is actually inconclusive in its essence. However, we have argued enough of this when this law was under discussion, but as we know it has been passed, so we will very soon experience its changes if I repeat absolutely bring chaos into the system and it will be difficult to implement or almost impregnable. Unfortunately, in addition to this regulatory tsunami in the energy sector, we have not felt a breeze of investment. Nothing is happening in this area, and obviously nothing will happen until the end of the term of office of this government. The analysis of the movement shown in the report in the electricity sector suggests several key trends. The first investments in this sector are definitely not there, there is no particularly important part of the energy sector in production, there is no investment in conventional sources of electricity. Croatia simply does not build anything and what it looks like by the end of this government's mandate and will not build anything, it just means that we will not reach those set targets by 2020 and that we will have serious, serious problems in the production of our own electricity from conventional sources. However, it is apparent from the data that some investments have been made in the transmission infrastructure. We have, for example. Thirty new transformation stations of 110 kilovolts, more than in 2011, so impressive for three years of government work. There are also some in the distribution system in the area of 20 kilovolt lines in 2011 we had 6322 km of water, and in 2014. 6500 km, so it managed to replace 10 kilovolt lines with 20 kilovolt lines over 100 km in three years, a very impressive investment activity in HEP. If it wasn't tragic, it'd be funny. It is therefore essential to stress that, as has already been said but also with a certain amount of concern, intensive investment is taking place, or at least at first glance it looks like renewable energy sources. But those installed megawatts really mean about 10% of the total installed capacity in the power sources. But when you look at more careful data, they represent almost nothing in the production of electricity. I'm not talking about the installed force. So we already have about 400 megawatts of installed power, but according to data from this document, we've produced about 600 thousand megawatt hours with 300 megawatts of installed power, which means that the entire renewable sector is working in Croatia for 2,000 hours on average, it's about 80, I think, 5 days. The wind power plants are mainly installed at 250 megawatts and solar power plants, collectors on roofs. The average biomass cogeneration power plant has to work 8,000 hours a year. And now that we see the amount of electricity produced from biomass and we see the produced energy from the installed 250 megawatt wind power plants, we see that either the wind doesn't smoke or it's enough for them to work 1700 hours on average instead of 8,000 hours a year. But we regularly subsidize it through the price we pay as consumers and last year that fee from 000.5 was raised to 0.035, I think. I'm sorry if I made a mistake in zeroes because there's not enough money in... to appease the sources and subsidies that are being built. We have potential in wood biomass somewhere around 250 megawatts in Croatia, but however the chaos that is present in the Croatian forests in HEP is generally with a biomass smuggling such that apparently only 3 or 4 biomass power plants are working with a negligible somewhere 10-ac maybe 15 megawatts of installed power, but that's why we have 260 megawatts of wind power plants. In the field of solar collectors, that's not to say. So it's absolutely incomprehensible, inadmissible to say for 2014 the quota is spent from 0.0 minutes and seconds on this year to 4 in the morning of that same day. I mean, what's this all about, why is that and what are we actually doing? And we spent all of 2013 in 25 minutes and spent the whole of it in quotas in 3 hours. Some insinuations, not by insinuations, but by votes who is able to even obtain the accession of the CROTE Law contract and which political options must be a member of this moment even speak. I don't want to further politicize this topic. Another information is mentioned and very important and indicative in this report and speaks much more about... the figure, so the consumption of electricity in Croatia is falling, continuously falling. Why? Because economic activities are falling, taxes are falling, consumption is falling in stores, electricity consumption is dropping and energy consumption is falling in industry because industry and the Croatian economy are failing. This is the result of the government's work since 2011 at the end of 2011. Of course, the Minister of Economy and daily enthusiastically showeres us with information that we will export oil and gas from the Adriatic will make a new North Sea, will make Slavonia a new California, Texas or Qatar, various pressures on LNGs various, the Croatian economy is wasting less and less energy because it is inexhaustibly failing, and he is the Minister of Economy, of course, a member of this disastrously unsuccessful government. We have a few more interesting data, too little time for everyone, but let's say they're characteristic. In 2013, we produced 74% without Krško electricity. Due to favourable climate conditions, because our power plants are mostly on water. And in 2014, there will be an even better year of weather, but what happens to the price of electricity? We remember the parade and circus that some ministers, now formerly, were raising electricity prices for households, generally for all consumers in Croatia because all the arguments that were rolling through the ether at the time and making deafening noise. So now that we don't have electricity imports, to the extent that it's said that we're now going down because 60% of us are importers, now we're importers 15%, why didn't there be a cut in the price of electricity? Who makes extra profits in that? Furthermore, as far as gas is concerned, the consumption situation is the same. Mr. President said, Council, that there are dramatic things happening, 4.2% of the economy's consumption has dropped. Today we have a highly developed gas network, we have a beautiful infrastructure, we've built everything we need and we won't have a user. And then he's right, Minister Vrdoljak, who today says we're going to export gas, so of course when there's no one to spend it, because the Croatian industry is going to fail and that's the biggest consumer of gas. Only Petrochemy spends nearly a billion cc's. It is a questionable finding here in the report that the result of the emergence of market liberalisation of new players is that of a fall in the natural gas market. It would just be great if it were a landslide. The direct consequence of the natural gas decline is that the government granted HEP gas supplies to households. And I'm not going to mention now who suddenly became a gas supplier for HEP. It seems to me it's no longer natural gas and it's our market development. That's why a player appears who in two years can have 2 billion traffic and yesterday is formed, Kuna. All right, let's get the people... some create the market, but what it took to take one gas supplier who's been doing it for 50 years to take that job away and move it to HEP. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm not going to answer those questions, I have my own opinion about it, and there may be opportunities at some next time. But these are all through a wonderful story of market development. We follow everything regulatoryly, we divide HEP, we have, of course, gas infrastructure all together, we have opened the market and then we make that market so that we can re-regulated it and what one of us is doing by yesterday is now doing the other based on the law and getting gas, but as it gets it and so is developing the market with us. As far as oil is concerned, the same interesting question. So everyone clapped that the government no longer regulates the price, or according to certain criteria. Today's oil 80 bucks. What was the price of oil derivatives when the oil on the market was $80? I don't think anything happened here with the price of oil derivatives, maybe a few lips every day or every few times that those who are the main players on the market are retailing oil derivatives, sorting out the price, of course they're agreeing. But it was a clear formula for determining when it was done by the Ministry of Economy as well as how the markets are determined and based on what they can and how they grow. Of course, it was always up to 3% if it was less than 3%, but it would have happened continuously that when oil prices fell, oil derivatives would certainly be cheaper in a few months. But it fits the state because it imposes additional charges on the price of oil derivatives and the higher the price of course a team of more money in the state bank bitch that becomes everything... JANAF, here are just a few more comments about it, increasing its transport of crude oil, but according to where? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to the Bosnian Ship and the refineries in Serbia? So if we look at this data, we reduce the production of oil derivatives and Janaf is increasingly transferring and transporting oil to other refineries. Smart enough what's going on in this area. Thank you very much, Vice President. [[Intruder: Time is fellow Drinker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89149	Thank you, too. We've got two replicas, so there'll be a chance you'll have more. The first one was Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89150	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You mentioned the inconclusiveness of the Energy Efficiency Act. What's gonna happen here? Therefore, the law will not be able to be implemented and instead of saving 20% of the energy in Croatia compared to 1990, it will, in all likelihood, increase the price of electricity so that the increased electricity price will also be paid by those who properly implement the law and their buildings in line with the Energy Efficiency Act and will pay the penalty for the fact that certain entities cannot do so because they are inadmissible, they cannot implement it. You mentioned the law on renewable energy sources. It is not clear to me why today the Croatian Parliament has not discussed the Law on Renewable Energy Sources. This law and its sublaws would introduce order in the production of energy from renewable energy, so these strange things that you mentioned would not happen, for example, that the quotas for solar energy are spent within three hours in the new year and it hasn't even dawned that first day of the new year. Already all the plans are made by all of CROTE's moves as a regulator of the energy market, as well as by pre-arranged key. Thereafter, it is unlikely that wandering around the production and subsidisation of the producer would be fuel. You remember that we changed that law on several occasions so that instead of encouraging, what you were talking about, biodiesel producers, bioethanol, we reduced these subsidies and thus transferred the funds that were dedicated to HROTE to the state budget, and then the finance minister, given the state of the budget, did not distribute the same funds and did not exactly establish the schedule of these funds to encourage the production of biodiesel and bioethanol.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89151	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Drinker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89152	Thank you very much. 15% seemed to me reduced production of biodiesel in the past year compared to 2012, again so much compared to 2011. So we're shutting down our own biodiesel production that doesn't just have to be produced from corn. It can be produced from garbage, for example. But today, yes, but I must simply mention it, we today in our strategies, discussions, or it was, and laws predict that we are going to do 13 huge garbage burns instead of talking about how some other technology can be used and done something other than 100 million investments that will never end up happening because it will not be feasible. Like this law that you're talking about and we're going to keep mentioning it and the first one, it's not going to be 25 days, and we're going to see, we're going to have to experience it, we're going to have to make changes and supplements, and that's actually proof of the catastrophic state of administration. This has nothing to do with HERA, so HERA is working under the laws proposed by the government and passed by the Parliament. Of course, the responsibility of HERA is that it is a maximum attempt to influence the stupidity that someone in the ministries can produce and eventually produce chaos because it has the capacity, has the resources and I assume that it has a sufficient amount of professional people and that they can read what the directives are. This law has been prescribed by the directives, and has not considered that this directive can be implemented in quality and translated into law, and they have translated in the end and turned out to be nonsense, that water and energy that ultimately will have to be measured by someone under this law and measured every day by water consumption in the building and this Assembly. That's what this law says.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89153	Thank you. Next replica Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89154	Comrade Drinker, you said this report points to many indicators that confirm the government's poor work. First of all, I would say that this report is more quality than it was for the previous year because they have listened to the suggestions that we have made here, and it really points to a lot of things that should be taken into account, but also to the conclusion that the government is doing badly. You said everything was going down. I think you've technically used one wrong word to drop taxes. Taxes don't go down, taxes go up and tax revenues go down, which is an economic paradox. There is an increase in VAT and, at the same time, a decrease in VAT revenue and both total tax revenues. You were talking about the market. Mr. Popioč, there is no energy market in Croatia. The market involves competition and this market competition. The perfect market is when there are so many bidders and customers that none of them can affect anything, not at all, not at all. Where we're far from it. And the more imperfect market prices are unreal. How imperfect the market in Croatia is best shown by energy prices. 50% decreases in the world's oil market, and no response at all. The market in Croatia. Obviously, it's not about market management, it's about agreement. Let's push out the country, but that's why the market will regulate the price, the agreed cartel price, and the state should withdraw.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89155	Thank you. Answer, Djuro Drinker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89156	Thank you very much. Yes, you've seen well, and thank you for correcting me. It would have been inadmissible if it had been left if I had said taxes were falling. In spite of the tax hike, incomes fall, and ultimately, this is the direct consequence of the decline in spending everything. Well then, of course, that is reflected here in energy, so despite the increase in the cost of consumption and the income of energy entities is also falling because consumption is ultimately falling. There's a upside to our market when the state gets involved in it. So let's remind ourselves, the state brought a deregulation of the gas market, then within a few months they re-regulated it and put it into the market for HEP to be a gas distributor to households that never did it. I'm not going to make any conclusions about why this happened, but let's just look at who's the main gas supplier for HEP. And that's the market. And of course tomorrow when the market is deregulated and everything opens up to households, these players who are just allowed to grow up to be so-called. the market and be the main players on that market tomorrow, not to mention that the state took 300 million kunas in gas, natural gas or INAs because it sold their gas in the surrounding warehouse and that is the market. And who bought it? Those who deliver gas to HEP. I don't need to talk about how the market works. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89157	Thank you, too. On behalf of SDP Representatives' Club Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89158	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable President of the Governing Council. Well, it should be noted that this report by the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency is getting better and more professional every year. This just shows that the role of an independent regulator is increasingly expressed and that your experience is greater. I congratulate you on that, but we have a lot of problems and challenges ahead of us, as you yourself have said. I expected honestly that the debate would concentrate on part of the solution of the Croatian energy sector, but unfortunately this is not the case today. We have only been liberalising Croatian laws by opening Croatia to a third package of energy laws, harmonising all our laws, and in particular the laws in energy compliance with European directives have opened the door to market liberalisation. For some it's regulatory tsunamis, for others it's the introduction of order and a chance for development. And that's how it looks at the introduction of the third energy law package. What is a positive effect of this is that the market has not only deepened, but in certain parts when it comes to gas, when it comes to electricity and has played what ultimately means lower prices for end-users. Not that these prices are less, they are something corrected and it is one of the good sides especially for citizens and especially for the energy market opening industry. What is important here too is to note that Croatia certainly has a big problem with the fact that it is a national agreement for the Energy Development Strategy. In 2009, we witnessed a document that we see today with five years away is completely inconclusive. This is the Energy Development Strategy. In 2009, she was brought here to the Croatian Parliament. Here and there, someone is invited to this Energy Development Strategy, but it is essentially in practice to date completely inconclusive. Some regrets are, this is a comprehensive document that contains a whole series of activities that has never experienced the implementation plan and has never responded to the key challenges of the Croatian energy sector. Croatia does not need printing paper, hundreds of strategies, pages. Croatia needs a national agreement of about 4 or 5 large energy projects and about small households using renewable energy sources. And that's where we go back to renewable energy sources and quotas. As regards the 2013 report compared to 2012, it can be observed that the share, i.e. the growth of energy from renewable sources even 6 times, from wind and from solar energy. I would not say that it is a breeze that did not blow, I would say that in the case of wind power plants that smoke mainly and mainly in Dalmatia, and our task and task of responsible people in the government and in Croatia is to attend to the energy sun that will warm every Croatian home across solar panels. So that's an additional task that we definitely need to accomplish. But what I will especially put emphasis on is the emphasis on gas supply and the potential risk of announcements and the political crisis that is happening in our area now, we can already tell the European neighbourhood and that Croatia seems exposed to up to 20% of the gas capacity, and there, along with the competent authorities of the state, will play a very important role in ensuring the supply of gas to Croatian households above all, because ultimately this means ensuring heating for all Croatian homes. This is what is absolutely our priority not by neglecting the gas industry that is definitely necessary, so Croatia should be very careful and Croatia should already start preparing today what I believe is doing the scenario for increased risk with reduced gas supply in winter months. When it comes to heat, then we definitely can't talk about any market play. This is not the case and in many European countries, heat and heat distributors are practically market monopolies. And just when it comes to this monopoly, then there is also a need to have increased supervision and to be careful about praiseworthy measures of energy efficiency and the introduction of divisors. So, as much as this is a commendable and positive thing in the end, it can happen that an account for the end-user can happen precisely because of the adjustment and introduction of the divisors, and thus ordering services by certain segments can even turn out more expensive. And here I would say the eyes of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency and the Government must be wide open. No sleep, because citizens of the Republic of Croatia and all cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia cannot feel more expensive bills, and we are going to introduce energy efficiency and get cheaper bills, we get fewer bills precisely because of these divisions. Therefore, we need definitely increased supervision here and I urge you not only to answer that question, but to tell us how you thought as a partner in this process of this enhanced supervision and to carry out it. One more thing. It concerns energy shocks and what is happening in the electricity market. So, I don't see her here now, my colleague Maric, but since that's my theme. So energy shocks are asymmetric, which means that the rise in energy prices in personal consumption per purchasing power parity will never produce a fall in personal consumption while the reverse is a serious case. It's so-called. Trash hold analysis and this effect is asymmetric on a whole series of countries i.e. across the EU territory, so it's just something that I dare say and scientifically proven. Therefore, we cannot complain or cry about it when it does not usually happen. And lastly, I have to say that this energy package, the third energy package, has introduced the necessary liberalisation of the market. This is another way we can actually see that by harmonising Croatia's legislation with the acquis, Croatia can benefit greatly today, and Croatia is benefiting from this harmonisation, i.e. more benefits from Croatian citizens and the Croatian economy. That benefit may not be great but it is a very good sign, which I hope will benefit much more in the future. I particularly hope that the challenge of using renewable energy sources set by the meeting of the European Council in Madrid in 2007 will be adopted as a consensus and as some kind of goal towards which it is definitely challenging to do so in Croatia and implement it, especially through the use of 20% of renewable energy sources. There's still a lot of work to be done here, especially when it comes to quotas. But here I'd like to concentrate on one part of self-sustainable, which means energy-sustaining households. That's what I think is very important. Croatia can and must encourage the growth of industry, the growth of private investment in every respect, but what it must ensure is energy efficiency because, ultimately, it is done for households, it is done for citizens, it is done for energy self-sufficiency. The government and the competent authorities must find a way to target energy self-sufficiency to the end-user or household. It is in each house practically an energy self-sustainability option through solar panels or through a certain other energy. Therefore, the sun shines in Croatia, every Croatian home has to shine, every Croatian house, and instead of this breeze in Dalmatia, we have a lush storm of wind power plants for optimists quite enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89159	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89160	Report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2013 and the Report on the achievement of the budget of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2013. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the Economic Committee as a home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2013 and the report on the achievement of the budget of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2013. a year." Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most 90 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 10 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89161	And we will discuss - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 702; The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You received the reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by the Minister of Science, Education and Sports Prof. dr.sc. He's a clear sailor. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89162	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor. This is about a relatively simple amendment to the Copyright Act. Namely, up to this change in cases where no author of a work was known or could not be contacted by public libraries, the web, had no opportunity to publish such works. These works are otherwise called the works of orphans, or Orfan works, to be said in the original. This is a harmonisation with the European Directive which then allows such acts to be made public.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89163	Thank you very much, Minister. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of HNS representative Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89164	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, with an associate, colleague and colleague. At first, I would like to say the position of the HNS club, regardless of the numerous objections to the whole law, we will support these proposed amendments and the addition of the Copyright and Related Rights Act. In fact, the European Parliament and the Council of Europe adopted the Directive on collective exercise of rights in March 2014. It is the first directive to deal explicitly with collective copyright and to leave a period of 2 years for Member States to implement local legislation. The directive is divided into two parts. The first part regulates transparency and good management of copyright companies, and the second part regulates the issue of cross-border copyright exercise in an online environment. But these changes relate primarily to the implementation of the EU directives and copyrights and related rights of orphans, as the minister has already said. But we're going in a row. EU Directives transposing to Croatian legislation concern the coordination of certain rules in view of copyright and related rights relating to satellite broadcasting and cable re-emission, legal protection of databases, harmonisation in the information society, the right to follow-up in favour of the author of the works of art, the protection of intellectual property rights, services on the internal market, the right to rent, the right to borrow and a specific area of intellectual property to the duration of copyright protection and certain related rights, to the legal protection of computer programmes... amending the Directive for the period of protection of copyright and certain related rights and for certain authorisation of the use of the work of orphans. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's important to explain the actions of orphans. Therefore, Article 12a of the proposed amendments states that if, after carrying out the search for the record referred to in Article 12b of this Act, no author or co-author of any act has been identified or even if an author or one or more co-authors of any act has been identified but none of them have been found, this work is considered an orphan act. If, after carrying out the search record referred to in Article 12b of this Act, not all coauthors of any act or even if not identified, they are to be subject to Article 84 of this Act, but only if all identified coauthors have granted authorisation to reproduce and make available to the public in the manner described in Article 84a of this Act. The real coauthors identified and found remain intact. Items 1 and 2 of this Article shall apply to works published in the form of books, magazines, newspapers, magazines or other publications which form an integral part of the collection in publicly available libraries, educational institutions or museums and other legal persons performing museum activities as well as collections, and archives or institutions for film and audio heritage. Cinematographic and other audiovisual works that form an integral part of the collection in publicly available libraries, educational institutions, museums and other legal persons performing museum activities as well as collections of archives or institutions for film and audiovisual heritage. Both cinematographic and other audiovisual works produced, or produced by public broadcasting organisations until 31 December 2002, which are located in their archives, which are protected by copyright and for the first time published in the Republic of Croatia, or if they are not issued for the first time, imitated in the Republic of Croatia. Copyright is just the ultimate confirmation of creative act, and creative act is the highlight of human creation. Creation is the most wonderful driver of the human process, including the protective human existence. The creation caused by imagination is the most exciting thing that can happen to one human being. Most authors of creative works besides creation are particularly exciting acts and presentations and sharing of enthusiasm with other individuals, i.e. individuals. Copyright is just the ultimate confirmation of creative act, and creative act is the highlight of human creation. Creation is the most wonderful driver of the human process, including the protective human existence. The creation caused by imagination is the most exciting thing that can happen to one human being. Most authors of creative works besides creation are particularly exciting acts and presentations and sharing of enthusiasm with other individuals, i.e. individuals. Creation is usually a product of persistent work of an individual or group with real knowledge and skills. When this work is supported by even talent, art often happens. Creation, imagination, creation can reach all its fullness of expression only in freedom or in a sense of total freedom. Every human being has a certain creative charge and potential but unfortunately because of numerous external influences and personal inhibitions many never even know, let alone, their creativity. However, we consider the HNS to be controversial, or at least more should explain Articles 3, 12, Article 80(6), Article 84(4) of the proposal, amendments, addition of the law. In fact, these articles speak, Article 12(6) states: "A author or co-author of works considered an orphan act may at any time suspend the application of those provisions in relation to his own rights." And the new article 84a reads: "A author or coauthor who abolishs the status of the work of orphans in accordance with this previous article of the law has the right to a fair compensation for the use of his work that was orphaned in the past. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The amount of compensation shall be determined in the light of the category of work of orphans, taking into account, inter alia, the objectives of the Republic of Croatia in the field of cultural promotion, the non-communicative nature of use taken by the institution referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article and opening up objectives related to their tasks of public interest, such as promotion, learning and dissemination of culture, and possible damage suffered by the authors. A fair fee shall be paid for a maximum of three years back, counting on the day of withdrawal of the status of the orphans. A claim for payment of fair compensation may be made by the author or by an appropriate association for collective exercise of the right granted by the author to make such a request. A request for the payment of the just fee of antiquity within a year, counting on the day of the withdrawal of the status of the work of orphans." Does this mean that an author can deliberately remain silent and let his work be declared an orphan, and when he sees that the work has gained popularity, he can prove his authority and ask for a fair fee three years back and what is a fair fee? In our opinion, Article 6 of the amendment of this law should be clarified. This law, which says, applies to all works of art, phonograms, vilograms protected by the Copyright Act because they are rights on 29 October 2014 or later. And Article 2 of the same article says "This law applies without prejudice to any acts concluded, or rights acquired before 29 October 2014. "years." Personally, among other things, it is one of the most controversial articles, article 50 of the Copyright Act and related rights which says that "Author cannot give up copyright." And by doing so, the law does a distinction between authorship and copyright. And finally, the greatest contribution in the society of each individual is its creation, certainly necessary to protect the authorship of each individual creator, inventor, author of any unique work at all. Every author of a unique indigenous creation must be protected from the abuse of its authorial work. Personally, I believe that neither our nor European legislation is entirely fair against all creators and authors. I will only give an example of a painter whose pictures or their reproductions hang in commercial activity spaces but are not treated in the same way as the music that is reproduced from the speaker in the same space. About the creations of fashion or industrial design that I don't even talk about. In the HNS, we believe that, independently of these proposed amendments and additions to the law, a very broad and comprehensive public debate on copyright status is necessary... in the light of the authorship and the consumption of copyrights, and not just some specific and particular activities. It is necessary to introduce an entirely equal relationship against all or against any creation and authorship. Only in an equal and fair relationship against all can we all feel free, and imagination, imagination, creation, and creation are using this very sense of freedom as a driving fuel. And allow me just a few data, I believe that those of you who are here will be interested in you, and perhaps in the public, the financial result of ZAMP for 2013. Their website can be viewed, it says that in 2013, a total of 104 million 579 thousand 850 thousand 65 kuna was charged, a good income higher than ever before, the most from public communication rights, then from the right to mechanical production of large synchronic rights from abroad, of which 9% was spent on social and cultural purposes. Namely, ZAMP also allocates the funds to maintain certain musical, cultural events, and the costs were ZAMP 24 million 973 thousand 527 kuna, and for the distribution shared by artists are 79 million... thousands 323.44 kuna. I would like to point out once again that despite all these remarks that we have had on certain issues that we would like someone to explain to us the club of the HNS liberal Democrats, we will accept this report... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89165	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Sunčana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89166	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We heard the introduction we actually need to supplement the obligation, or the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, in the part in which it is necessary to comply with the Directive on the permitted use of the works of orphans. Although the public debate was conducted to commend and there were some other proposals, it remained in this expression that such acts are called the works of orphans. What I will immediately warn among other things, the law says will also establish a legal framework that will facilitate the digitisation and dissemination of works and other copyrighted buildings. Similarly, the law says that after this in the Republic of Croatia, publicly available libraries, educational institutions, museums and other legal persons performing museum activities as well as archives of the film or audio heritage institution and public broadcasting organisations will be able to conduct the total digitisation of their collections. No one has prevented them from doing so yet, but they have had a small moment that may have made them impossible, and it is called finance. Unfortunately, the existing construction in the Republic of Croatia, which was not a problem so now called the authorial works of orphans, was not made available because of the lack of funds for digitisation, has been continuously reduced. And as unfortunately as we know the funds available for this way of spending on digitising any building are not taught from the EU and they could have been. So here again we point to inaction first of all by the resolute ministry in this case that I cited to the Ministry of Culture. No matter what the directive means to regulate a part of the law which has not been regulated by this issue so far, and we in HDZ are committed to the protection of copyright as well as European and civilization values, we must point out that this was an opportunity and for a more comprehensive regulation of the laws, particularly in the form of control and supervision. For example. Yesterday, or today, they ended up in Opatija 7. The days of the electronic media, you could hear the remarks and step forward of your colleague from the profession above all the journalists if you will and the publishers who pointed out that in copyright protection we unfortunately do not follow the best European standards, but unfortunately we are moving away from them. There are daily copyright violations on both portals and newspapers, but especially because it is sad sometimes in public service. For example. We have witnessed that many Croatian directors have sent a protest, raised their voice publicly because of the unauthorized reprisal of their works on HRT, and there is a need to make improvements as soon as possible to make public service so that HRT is an example of respect for copyright or at least show that it can be principled because in some situations copyright is paid extensively and in advance. The colleague mentioned one financial information earlier, so I will remind you on this occasion of the recent precedent where a contract with ZAMP was signed at the request of the director of HRT and for three years at the phone session of the Supervisory Board for 67 million kuna. The members of the Supervisory Board have repeatedly refused to sign such a proposed contract since it was precedentd because you actually give 67 million kuna from the state budget or if you want taxpayers for something that might happen sometime. So this wasn't usual and the practice was to get a contract when you mentioned it signing just for a year. The Croatian Democratic Community I repeat once again, we have always been to protect the copyrights and composers and artists and all others who, through their intellectual work, enrich Croatian cultural identity, however, should be done in a transparent, principled and equal manner towards all. The Croatian Democratic Community understands the need to regulate this once-in-a-lifetime change which, unfortunately, we have not come ourselves, but we need to comply with the directive, however, we point to the need to fully regulate the area of copyright and their control mechanisms. As it is common to say protection of copyright or protection of copyright and related rights is a key way of encouraging human creativity and innovation they must be adequately arranged and they must also be sanctioned in an adequate manner. As far as this proposal is concerned, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89167	Dubravko Bilic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89168	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's your dear colleague. You've raised a lot of questions. First of all, I will stress that it is good to bring this amendment to the copyright law, because also respecting the European Digital Agenda and all that is done so to say across the border encouraged by Google's digital library is important to bring our legislation into line. However, I'm going to be replicating actually this claim of yours that so far could digitize the building in libraries. In Croatian libraries, however, much has already been digitized, but it has not been systematically done except for something in the university library and in the city libraries, but it is mainly about digitising local character printings made on different platforms and in different conditions, and then we have problems both in indexing and in searching and in later use. However, what prevented the most libraries from dealing with digitization is not only money but fear above all. Something about it was said by a colleague about the moment when the author, so-called. The works of the orphans can be as a library, as a public archive, as an institution that wants to enable this availability of digital building, you can find yourself in certain problems. It is therefore good to define in the law what the works of orphans are to ensure that the process of digitisation that is really necessary and which extends the frameworks of freedom, because the European Commission also states this, as this part, is the fifth human freedom I think it's important that this law... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89169	Thank you. The Sun Glavak response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89170	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In one piece, I agree with you, obviously we're somewhere on the same trail, but this isn't just about documentation or digitizing a library building. We have two very important segments, one that refers to Vesnik's documentation that must necessarily be digitized, there's our history, there's part of our identity, and unfortunately it stands. The second one is the foundation of Croatian Radio Television. I trust you'll agree. So only those two segments I mention. Absolutely that's what we should do. Could we have arranged this ourselves without this directive as far as orphans are concerned, we probably are. However, for these two segments of importance, I will once again say we have not so far and we could withdraw money from European funds. We can also see what can be done at regional levels. We need to open the door, not just wait or be afraid of something to actually protect our building. When you mentioned the anxiety, then the address, of course, is not you and me, or you may be more than that the bill says that these additional funds will not be necessary since it is estimated by the nature of things that will not affect the state budget because like not many owners of the work that will be declared orphans. There you are right, therefore you need to resolve it, you need to see that these funds are planned in some basic contours because I agree with you, you never know when or what a colleague said before and say no this work is not an orphan, we actually found the owner or heir to copyright. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89171	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourist-Stranke labor colleagues Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89172	Thank you, Vice President, distinguished ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. I will be very brief because it is a technical law, a practical alignment with the European Union directive, but I will warn of a bad practice that I have already warned several times and it concerns this law and perhaps one answer to the law itself because we have a different opinion about that part. First of all, what I would like to say is not a question of bringing this law in line with the European Union Directive, because it is a technical part and the law has incorporated everything that is in the European Union Directive. But I will remind you of that part that this Copyright Act is in line with the European Union Directive a year ago. A year ago, a series of directives were a harmonisation, and by then, this Directive of the European Union was already in force for a year. So I ask myself one particular question why it is not already incorporated into the amendments and additions to this Law and this directive, why we are now bringing it in after a year and practically within the last term. I think that in this way we would avoid a lot of that part of wasting time, the debates here in the Parliament that we could have had through one debate, through the publication of amendments to the law in the National Journal, and in that part, we would have saved some financial resources, and I think they would have been more efficient and more quality. It is not a failure of this minister, but it is a failure of the ministry that I believe should have been considered because at the time he was another minister. What I would particularly like to emphasise, and what I am practically interested in, is that in the case of the author of orphan works, the directive is prescribed that he should also be paid an adequate fee for that part of the work. The law here states in Article 5 that the work provides for compensation to the author who has been found for up to three years, so I am primarily interested in why for three years. The directive does not have any deadlines, and whether in that part it is in accordance with the directive when we talk about the justice and fair compensation of the author. In this way, we will damage him, and the practical part of the orphans will be made available to the public. Otherwise, a lot of them said that this law, in large part, should not require a certain large or larger financial means when it comes to the works of orphans, what he is talking about. It is said that there is only enough of those constructions on Croatian television that is present before the '90s. A year. I guess that's what I came up with. And the second part, like Croatian Labourists, we have no objections to the law because it is more technical. Here through several articles regulates that part of the installation of the directive by saying this to us is a question of three years because we believe that within that we should have given some kind of a longer term. Croatian Labourists will support these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89173	Boris Blazekovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89174	Just... correcting the wrong quote. The colleague said some false facts, namely the European Parliament and the Council of Europe adopted in March 2014. A directive on collective exercise of rights so that nothing could have been done before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89175	Zlatko Tušak, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89176	No, my colleague Blažekovic, it's a directive that was in 2008, this is in line with the directive in 2008, it's clearly in the law and it's adopted on October 25th or I don't know, it's in the document in... part so read that part and you'll see. It's exactly the date on which the directive was adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89177	The final word of Dr. Vedran Sailor. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89178	Thank you very much to the distinguished MPs. I think that all of this should be added only to the fact that the Legislative Committee of the Croatian Parliament has proposed some amendments to the nomotechnical, or one amendment in which it is pronounced and legally aligned with nomochnik, which is then of course accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89179	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89180	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 702. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments submitted by the Legislative Committee have been accepted and have become an integral part of the final draft law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 100 votes in favour and 1 abstentions have been passed a law amending and supplementing the Law on Copyright and Related Rights in the text, as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89181	And tonight we will discuss - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on election of the President of the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 710 – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP; You have adopted the proposal. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You received the reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The introduction of the bill will be explained by a colleague named Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89182	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The SDP advocates club is actually proposing something that could be called the most simple technical amendment of the law. This change is useful, although not necessary for the conduct of the election. So, all to make this change and not make elections for the President of the Republic, of course, that will be possible, of course, will be legal. However, what we are proposing here is very useful and for this reason, it is essentially our initiative to adopt the amendment by an urgent procedure in order to apply it already in the upcoming elections for the President of the Republic. But in short, this change brings us. The rules on monitoring of the campaign are laid down, the obligation for all media other than HRT to follow the campaign and allow them to follow the campaign in accordance with their editorial policies, respecting the journalistic ethics and other values declared by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the European Convention on Human Rights and the European Charter of Human Rights. What is the goal of such a change? The goal is simply to get an informed voter who will be able to make an informed decision on whom to place his vote on the basis of concrete and correct information. So a public service such as HRT is still obliged to follow the campaign, a public service such as HRT is obliged to allow every candidate in the campaign to present his programme, and all other services commercially decides on their own whether and to what extent he will follow the campaign to elect the President of the Republic. Furthermore, the next amendment concerns electoral silence. As you know, in all election laws, we have changed the provisions concerning electoral silence in a way that the electoral silence stops closing the polls. In this law it has been missed and that is why we want to make this change so that already at 1900 hours when polls of those from the polls will be completed it can be presented to the citizens. And secondly, at 21.00 a.m., when the DIP rule for such elections already has most of the polling stations can be published, because look now we have a situation that, for example, the Evening Party that goes out for Bosnia and Herzegovina must not publish the results of the election uninterruptedly at 19 hours, and the one who goes out in Croatia must not do so. Furthermore, the provisions of the law are in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in the section concerning voting outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia, and in the terminology of the terming this law is in line with the Law on the State Election Commission. I would add that yesterday, on the days of the electronic media, we discussed the rules for monitoring the campaign and, in practice, of all the participants in the debate, there was commendation and support on such a change of law. The Proposer accepts the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives, and with regard to the amendment of the Media Committee, it will be obvious when we study it because my apologies have not yet been accepted, so please. In the end, I'm going to end this statement with one question, and that's what may have been the most disturbing question to the public whether this law can be passed now, because it's not, or it's far less time than a year until the election. Bringing or amending and supplementing electoral legislation no later than one year before holding regular elections is only recommended a good electoral standard. But there is no general legal norm in the Republic of Croatia that would turn that standard into a binding rule of law. The misunderstanding appears to have arisen from the fact that Article 4. Constitutional law implementing the 2001 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 5. Constitutional law for the implementation of the 2010 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is understood as a general legal norm, not as transitional rules that serve the one-time harmonisation of legislation with concrete amendments to the Constitution. For example, the Constitutional Court sent a report to the Croatian Parliament. In the 2010 report published on 17 December 2010, the Constitutional Court said: "This obligation is exhausting under the obligation of the Croatian Parliament to harmonise electoral legislation to elect representatives to the Croatian Assembly with the 2010 Constitution. "years." This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The constitutional law amending the Constitution accordingly is the timely harmonisation of relevant electoral laws with the new constitutional text. Furthermore, in order to remove any doubts, the Constitutional Court shall, in its decision of 29 July 2011, set out the rules contained in the revised Articles 1, 5, 6, 7, 9 and 10. The Act amending and supplementing the Law on the Selection of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament did not comply with the obligations of compliance with the 2010 amendment of the Constitution, and therefore does not apply to them the deadline set out in Article 5. The constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and I will repeat that deadline relating to the adoption of electoral legislation one year before the elections. And the final clarification was given by the State Election Commission in its November 2013 opinion, which says it is not intended to amend the law in a shorter period than a year, but if it is about substantial changes to the law. I'll do it again. We do not claim that these changes matter. They are technical, but also useful, which is why we believe that their adoption of the electoral process will only improve and therefore invite all colleagues and colleagues to support these amendments and supplement the Law on the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89183	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. I'm sorry, we have three replicas before that. Miroslav Tudjman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89184	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Grbin, you were among other things in this explanation talking about how one objective information should be made possible, and then it actually comes down to the last 24 hours before the elections themselves to stop themselves from previous announcements of unofficial election results, etc. However, it is known that one way to influence public opinion is to constantly publish evaluations of election results throughout the election campaign. And therefore, and we also know that a relatively small number of these agencies, i.e. institutes or services dealing with these assessments, are doing it professionally, and that the good part is in great dissent later on with the results shown in the elections. And that is why it is surprising, in fact, that you then did not go to suggest that it be banned in that election period, from the announcement of elections until the end to prohibit the publication of the election results assessment in order not to manipulate the electoral body. So the question is why didn't you suggest it, given that a number of countries have such a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89185	Peja Grbin, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89186	Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is true that a number of countries have such a solution. But we also have a series of countries that have a solution that has no pre-election silence, so you exit polls, for example, in the United States, can be published while the vote is going on. All these are the solutions that are being taken into consideration and that are being taken into account in one way or another. However, we have provided for these rules, pardoning this law, that even in the choice of the President of the Republic, the rules on the media monitoring of the campaign are properly applied. We discussed these rules a few weeks ago in this House and adopted without a single vote against. And in these rules, we've looked very much at how survey reports have to be drawn up, which has to be published, etc. And at the end of the line, I really don't see why we should be afraid of public opinion polls. It is an integral part of the campaign, not only in the Republic of Croatia but elsewhere. And it is not recognized, or it has never been scientifically proven that polls that speak about what public opinion creates a pro futuro voter's decision to vote for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89187	Sun Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89188	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. You spoke about this yesterday on the days of the electronic media, but I would not agree with you that all the media representatives so enthusiastically accepted this, but rather there were objections in the section relating to the electoral promotion regulated by the electronic media. The media had an observation where, unlike other media outlets, they were placed in an unequal position. For those who may not be in the whole matter, therefore, the conduct of electronic media or media with national concession is strictly required here, however, the print media may have so-called all the time. election promotion, they can have ads, they can have all year round. So this is what colleagues in the media have referred to as a very serious remark. In addition, the question of how and what would be the parameters for stakeholders or participants in emissions was mainly that the rules that would prescribe commercial television with a national concession would take the relevance of the surveys as parameters. So if we project this, for example, in future parliamentary elections, it means that, for example, one party that is now in the parliamentary majority, for example, of the HNS which is now in some statistical error, does this mean that according to these polls, members of that party will not be taken as relevant and will not be called on as participants to be able to express their opinions on the shows. And besides, for the end, you left out one very important thing, which is that with advertising on channels that are in some other systems. Now I don't advertise anyone, but for example, advertising can also be done on baby TV, MAX TV, Animal Planet, National Geographic and other channels.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89189	Thank you very much. Replication response, Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89190	Thank you. So this law applies to all channels. That law also applies to the newspaper. It prescribes how editors and publishers must act on the preparation and publication of news and media reports on campaigns. What you're talking about are rules, and the rules from the moment we referred them to the procedure in 2003 and 2007 and today apply exclusively to electronic media publishers with a national concession because all research has shown that these are the electronic media with national concessions and today are the most influential media in the Republic of Croatia. And as for the remarks that you and I were listening to yesterday, they were going in the other direction. First of all, since the local electronic media, the remarks have been aimed at allowing paid advertising by political parties in electronic media, so on radios and on TV and off-election campaigns. It's forbidden by the Electronic Media Act. And it's not my idea to suggest that this ban be changed. Because really outside the campaign, so at a time when funding isn't as strictly controlled as it is in the campaign, someone with millions or billions is not supposed to promote one political option because it's a political option. And I really don't think we should change that provision. And for the end, I will touch on the liberalisation that is foreseen both by this law and by the rules. And I'm not going to talk about it much, but I'm going to quote a professor, a media teacher who just said yesterday, "I don't know why journalists are afraid of themselves." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89191	And Josip Boric, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89192	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, I hope you will not take me for harm, but I take every opening explanation very carefully because you have equally strongly defended the shooting of that Assembly Committee to investigate the murder of Đurekovic, you have equally well explained the Constitution and the amendments to the Constitution so that even now it looks pretty good, but we do not know what is behind it, i.e.. We're trying to figure out what's behind it. And then I am double confused when I read a statement by the President of the Parliament two days ago that he says we agreed that the schedule should be such that we respect the standards that the procedure for amending the electoral legislation is resolved in accordance with the recommendations of the Venice Commission and the positions that we have one year before the deadline for the elections. And now should I trust the President of the Parliament or the chairman of the Assembly Committee on the Constitution? Here I am, in this opportunity, going to bow down to the President of the Parliament. I think it's more democratic, fairer, and it's actually that all the elections have already passed under this law quite inappropriate for you to bring yourself such a negative echo to change these laws by explaining it to a variety of reasons. I don't think it's good for anyone, and especially for democracy in the Republic of Croatia, and it would be good if you gave it up for real. Because you've put President-in-Office of the Parliament in a bad situation. Because now you've interpreted it here and said we don't have to stick to it in that old manner like a drunk float. And the president says that, for the purpose of democratic standards, however, the decisions of the Venice Commission should still be respected. So I don't trust you this time, for the third time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89193	Peja Grbin, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89194	If you don't believe me, you can at least, and you are, thank you. Dude, you don't believe me, so that's a compliment to me. From you when it comes, so I can't be happier, but you don't have to trust the President of the Croatian Parliament either, you don't have to trust the Chairman of the Constitution Committee, but you see, here you know, when you leave the building, on the right there is one institution, called the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, so I recommend you read the decisions of the Constitutional Court number U-10-6670/2010 of 08 December 2010 and the decision U-1120/2011, etc. of 29 July 2011 which removed any doubts about when and what could be changed. And if that were the case, let's say, the rules on the media monitoring of the campaign came in 2007. You know, unlike this law we talked about, which has passed all the committees in charge of the Parliament that's been in the process for a month. In 2007, the Committee on the Constitution, chaired by your colleague, adopted the draft rules Thursday, handed it over in the procedure, and on Friday, he discussed it and adopted it immediately. And you know what was the next decision that the Parliament adopted afterwards? Decision on disbanding the Croatian Parliament to conduct the elections. So, look, it's really a good parliamentary practice that important changes in electoral legislation don't work a year before the election, but these aren't important, these aren't crucial, these are useful technical changes. If you don't think they're necessary, then let's not vote them. But don't say that their adoption is against the Constitution and legislation of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89195	Now we'll move on to the debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89196	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, we have before us a law that has caused the unremembered interest of journalists, the public and fellow parliamentary representatives as well as this group of ours that is now shrinking by a few more numbers. Let me once again, in front of the HDZ Club, congratulate the Presidency of the Parliament, which has chosen 6 hours of the afternoon to discuss amendments to a non-essential law called the Law on the Election of the President of the Republic of Croatia. I will not stand here with congratulations because I think it is a duty, although the Croatian public will probably not know any of this, it is a duty to warn of everything that is said, which is true, which is not and what is the law on which we should plead today. The introduction of the proposal was, to put it this way, complete with some facts that we'll also say, remind you of what you seem to forget very often. Change of electoral legislation one year before the election is held is an electoral engineering. It is the counter-constitutional conduct of the government that gives itself the right to deal with calculations ahead of the upcoming elections. A quote, though not from today, not yesterday, but from 2011, but very interesting. A quote attributed to Mr Zoran Milanovic, the president of the government of the Republic of Croatia, Mrs Vesni Pusic, who also added 900 thousand unknown voters who were allegedly non-existent voters included in the voters' lists, who is now the first vice-president of the government of the Republic of Croatia, and about election engineering in a year before the election was held, the third person spoke of this case, very much to say the signifying, President of the Republic of Croatia, Dr Ivo Josipovic. These are your quotes, colleagues from today's position, but the amnesia was complete and in 3 years you forgot absolutely everything you said. Most important of all, and that's what we have to talk about, when we're getting instructions from this pay phone, in front of HDZ, no one has ever said that the adoption of an electoral law within a year is illegal or against the constitution. And it is true in the Croatian legislation there is no... norm that would defend the election legislation to be changed within a year and because such a norm does not exist, none of us have ever said it. But we said something else, that democracy is also manifested in the democratic standards that exist in society. That there is a special body, the Venice Commission that you so often quoted 3 years ago when their opinion and recommendation to all democratic systems that in the last year before the elections electoral legislation does not change, that is the democratic standard that we advocated then, we still stand for today. Today, that standard is clearly unsuitable to you. And now something first about fundamental remarks on the text of this law to SDP promoters. In the opening statement, Mr Grbin said that the amendment to this Law on the election of the President of the Republic is not necessary, but that this is a technical issue and that it would be good for this law to be amended. In an explanation and in the proposal for the adoption of this law, an urgent procedure has been explained, and that is where you quoted Article 204. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which says that it is envisaged that the law can be passed exceptionally by emergency procedure when it is required by particularly justified reasons which must be particularly reasoned in the proposal. If it is not necessary to pass this law, then I ask you what are the particularly justified reasons why this law is being passed within a year and still by an urgent procedure, except for the fact that today, dear fellow Members, we are still without a ruling from the Government of the Republic of Croatia on when the presidential elections will be held. We can also count when the current president's mandate began and we know what provisions are on when elections are to be called. However, the Croatian government is silent, as it is silent today about the achievements of democracy on democratic standards and the fact that electoral legislation must not be changed in the past year before the elections. And even that rule applies in our talks on changing the electoral legislation that should apply to parliamentary elections. It is only likely that the seats of the President of the Republic are much less important to you, or the President of the Republic asks you to carry out such a criminal and violent act in the Assembly regardless of the criticism you will receive. And we don't know what arguments we have today to assure you that you're doing something that you don't need, which is harmful, which is as you said is not necessary, which is, at the very end of the line, the fact that such a legal solution was worth it and when the President of the Republic was elected for the first time in his term, and then these norms existed, they didn't bother you. At that time, you were bothered by the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2010 carried out the Constitutional Court's decision 9 months before the election was held to amend the Law on Election Units, so all of what counterpart Grbin read today from the Constitutional Court's decision concerns the procedure that you initiated by claiming that election legislation should not be changed in the last year. And all this reasoning that you have read is that it was consummated through the constitutional law on the implementation of the constitution by the government's right and obligation to amend electoral legislation was about that time and those questions of yours when you believed and claimed that electoral legislation should not be changed in the last year of the term of office. Today you are probably because of this forgetfulness that follows you decided to do something completely different. Today you decided 2 months before holding elections to change the electoral law that is technical. Dear colleagues, in instructions that electoral legislation does not change the last year of its term of office, it has never said anywhere that it relates to important or non-essential changes. Election legislation does not change in the last year of its term of office in order to ensure equal conditions for all who compete in the elections to know the rules and to know how these elections will be conducted. Today you are introducing an ugly and very dangerous horror because if the parliament votes this law will no longer be correct that every government in every session of electoral legislation changes even the day before the elections are held. And that's why we think this is a very dangerous precedent that we can't allow. And what's this about? It is an election for the president of the Republic of Croatia, which we did not talk about selling state secrets to the Serbian ambassador in Croatia, that he was doing so in a Colloquial manner and that the fact of his talks with the Serbian ambassador today lies in the memoirs of the same gentleman who no one has denied. We are not talking about a president of the Republic who spoke against his own country, say in the Israeli Parliament or in the BiH Parliament, not to talk about the achievements of his foreign policy in other parts of how you like to say it to the region. And instead of talking about what is the responsibility of the President of the Republic of Croatia to create a foreign policy of the Republic, about the leadership of the Armed Forces of the Republic and about everything that the Constitution has shared with him as its responsibilities, we today 2 months before the elections, if it will be 2 months because the government, as I said, has not yet made the decision to call the elections, today 2 months before the elections, are changing the Law on the election of the President of the Republic. This in some ways shows that your relationship with institutions in the extreme line also shows your relationship with the democratic standards achieved in society and shows your relationship with everything we've built as a better society than it was yesterday. You and your proposal are bringing us back. You're bringing us back. You're bringing us back and today those same people who have been calling for high democratic standards since yesterday and all these standards have forgotten, and today almost under cover of darkness at half past seven on Thursday night, we're passing the law on the grounds that these are technical repairs to make the law better. Tomorrow, when parliamentary elections will be prepared, you can also come with amendments to the law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. And if this becomes a rule, no one will be able to object to you in Croatia to violate democratic standards and democratic principles of civilised countries because you have already changed electoral legislation before the elections. Are you really that other and different authority as you liked to call yourself at the beginning of your term of office? Do you really think this is the best you can do as a SDP club and what can the Government of the Republic of Croatia confirm with its opinion? And do you really think that this debate is necessary and that this law is necessary at this time? We think it's true somewhere else because no one in their right mind can believe that for technical reasons you decided to bring it in by making all possible complaints and only a part of it I brought out here today. And that is why we think that you are actually living under some dictatorship and probably in the interest of your only candidate for the future president of the Republic of Croatia. We don't see any other valid argument reaching out to these measures two months before the election. We said when you were getting into the agenda. It's counter-business to push this law into an emergency procedure, and you're deaf to it. No reason to change that law has two months before the election, no interest in you. Therefore, all we have to conclude is that you are doing all of this in the interest of Mr. Ivo Josipovic's election campaign, try to make it darken and literally because you bring it under cover of darkness at 7 p.m. The Croatian public who has already had a lot of excessive concerns is no longer up to the monitoring of such discussions and will tomorrow pass a law and a practice that will bring us back 10 years. And we don't need that. And this law on this date, if it is voted on tomorrow, will be a disgrace to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89197	The replica of the Sun Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89198	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, if that's not a direct reference to the Social Democratic Party colleagues personally from the current President of the Republic, then I expect the President of the Republic to react in this way. And what you said is that this is how democratic standards in the Republic of Croatia are actually suspended. And I expect the president to be concerned about the violation of the standard. In addition, you have warned of some misdemeanours, so I will only ask the question, in the area of work or constitutional powers of the President of the Republic, is also a matter of national security. Well, don't you really think that the complete collapse of the Croatian economy, the daily eviction of young people from the Republic of Croatia or a large number of unemployed are equally a matter of national security? Is it a question of the survival of the Croatian people, the question of the existence of young people will they remain in the country or will they seek their fate elsewhere? There's unprecedented engineering, no one knows when the election will be, no elections are scheduled. But here's a fellow Mlakar about the presidential election, even at 18.20 p.m., we're talking. That's what it's all about, it's constantly going through the media, and that's how there's a nice free presidential election campaign.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89199	The answer to Davorin's Mlakar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89200	Thank you very much and we got involved in it. The President of the Republic has been writing letters lately, but he has neither sent a special letter nor written in his letter to the President of the Parliament that we have learned from the media, and then we have been pressured by the media and finally received the text of this letter in Parliament. What you said to your colleague Glavak and I will repeat, the President of the Republic of Dr. Ivo Josipovic, in 2011, was convinced that it was very dangerous to change electoral legislation even if it was in compliance with constitutional court decisions, it was very dangerous to change electoral legislation a year before the elections, he considered it as his fellow election engineers. I'm interested in when today's law is in the Parliament's agenda whether our SDP colleagues at least asked the president if he was still thinking the same thing or maybe they changed his mind in the meantime and said that it was actually an extraordinary chance to resolve the issue of whether the electoral silence would be up to 2400 or would end up closing the polls. That's to forgive dear God anyway, not only the SDP. And the game is not about changing the issue of electoral silence but about showing us that electoral legislation can be changed and if it takes 15 days before the elections, it will also be a signal to us for the parliamentary elections that follow.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89201	On behalf of the SDSS Club, dear Milorad Pupovac. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. After a debate on the word clubs, the esteemed Peja Grbin appeared on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89202	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, respected colleagues and colleagues from the HDZ Club have made extremely difficult accusations in their discussions and replicas at the expense of the President of the Republic. So I ask you, instead of campaigning from the speaker, if you believe that the President of the Republic of Croatia has violated the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, then it is your duty, in accordance with Article 105. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia shall initiate the recall procedure. If you don't do that, I'll think that your accusations were on that old Hebrang, too, that he never lies, just so he doesn't occasionally tell the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89203	Replica, Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89204	Comrade Grbin, colleagues from the HDZ Club don't need your instructions either to perform in the Assembly or to act when they're assessing something legally or against the law, so leave it until they take away our business ability to judge for themselves. And as for the charges against the President of the Republic when you found him on this occasion to defend or represent him, then I will tell you that I have not made any charges against him. He was accused by the Serbian ambassador to the Republic of Croatia in his memoirs where he described that the President of the Republic of Croatia, Dr Ivo Josipovic, had offered an agreement before he was president on withdrawing the genocide suit, that he had provided him with a lot of material in the restaurants they were in, and that the President of the Republic had never denied it. He has, however, replaced his adviser and special analyst, whom he may have encouraged, but this news and these stories from an ambassador's memoir, as far as I know, have not been denied. Therefore, you have enough problems at the SDP club, try to give them instructions, spare us that and let us manage as we ourselves know and can.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89205	Answer, Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89206	Did the President of the Republic really give away any secrets or scurry about withdrawing the lawsuit against the Republic of Serbia with the ambassador of that state, but what I do know is that just now the President of the Republic of Croatia is the criminal law professor Ivo Josipovic, the author of the lawsuit. We know that, and all this other stuff goes into the domain of that Hebrang. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89207	We're moving on to an individual debate. Here you go, Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89208	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The proposal for this law on amendments and additions to the Law on Elections of the President of the Republic of Croatia raises the question today whether or not this is electoral engineering, I say that this is electoral engineering and may be about a small change in this law for the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia. You might say it's not that much attention and it's some kind of technical change. In addition, it is said here that there is no need for additional funding for this amendment, we would say that it is extremely rational of SDP colleagues because the law has not changed since 1992, so its provisions are not in line with the provisions of other laws. However, there is something to be said here that Mr. Mlakar spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club, and not repeating myself, I will talk about one other part of the assessment of the state of this law, which refers to the following. He says that these amendments to the Law on Elections of the President of the Republic of Croatia are in line with the Constitution, in which the vote of Croatian citizens outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia and with the Law on the State Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia has been arranged with regard to the name of the authorities responsible for carrying out the elections. Now, this is probably related to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in Article 45, paragraph 3, which actually states that Croats outside the Republic of Croatia who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia can only vote in diplomatic and consular representations and that is true and that is set out in this law of Article 45. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Since it was possible to vote in foreign representations so far, I think that President Josipovic has thought well about all the details of his campaign and of any recent election in the presidential elections, and this has also entangled him in order to prevent Croats outside the Republic of Croatia from participating in the elections, of course, in foreign representations, and not only in diplomatic and consular representations. What may have been forgotten by President Josipovic, he forgot the constitutional principle of equality and fair representation in which all Croatian citizens aged 18 have a general and equal right to vote for the Croatian Parliament, for the President of the Republic of Croatia and for the European Parliament, and in the decision-making process in the state referendum in accordance with the law. Why did that bother him? I suppose he knows and expects that Croatian citizens outside the Republic of Croatia will be happy to respond to the presidential elections. But forgets that before that all these citizens of the Republic of Croatia and who do not have residence must make an active registration, which is an additional discriminatory decision that we have made in this Croatian Parliament. And it is certain that all Croatian citizens do not have the same right. I believe, I am convinced of this and what Mr. Mlakar was talking about, not repeating myself, thinking that the things President Ivo Josipovic is thinking about and asking for this bill to be put into the parliamentary procedure as soon as possible, in fact, to enable him to have a certain score that he can win in these elections. What is not good and what Mr. Mlakar was talking about on behalf of the HDZ Club, which may have been forgotten to mention, because otherwise President Josipovic does that when he gives lessons to others in the Republic of Croatia as some kind of on-call critic, which he also shared with the Assembly representatives here. He forgot that one big bolument of people on Pantovchak, almost 150 of them actually think about all the details, so I believe they couldn't miss this detail either. This is actually why this bill was found today on the benches of the Croatian Parliament and what we will be voting on very soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89209	The last individual debate, respected Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89210	Thank you very much, Vice President. Let me say something about these nice changes. I don't know if it's a better time, so we're discussing the night or it's a better date. Now that I have to make up my mind like all of you, I think it's hit both of us. Because indeed, even in the evening of the election, we are discussing amendments and additions to the Law on the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia could only be afforded by the party. Now, I've been taught a long time that there's no coincidence in politics, that nothing happens by chance. It means there's always someone's intention behind every move. And indeed, when we think about it from the last election, it's been almost five years. For five years, that law didn't bother us, and we knew the election would come. He also knew the current Prime Minister would be a candidate. And now it's been a whole year. And what do they have to do on Pantovichka rather than think about how to proceed with the mandate? And now they remember at the last minute that something should change, because maybe it's a little segment that can damage someone, maybe even them. And that's why I find it a coincidence to say amazing. And then the day before yesterday, he says Leko's doing it again. Our president of the Parliament, so it's not the same institution. A man serious, valuable, I think a politician of a format. And that most important member of the SDP, the chairman of the board of directors. And he says, we have agreed that the schedule should be such that we respect the standards, that the procedure for amending the electoral legislation is resolved in accordance with the recommendations of the Venice Commission and the positions that we have one year before the deadline for the elections. With his head and beard, Joseph Leco. And we really, here we have this second story of election legislation for parliamentary elections. And now here's two days later, another story for the second election. The chairman of the Constitutional Committee comes in and says it would be a standard, but we don't have to listen to it. What do we need it for? Because the party has a certain different mindset. And I said, I don't trust that gentleman there no matter how much he convinced me that he should be trusted. I would even like Ivo Jelusic, who was also proposed here as one who could defend it, to explain to me something about why such changes and additions of the law came from the SDP club. Because I'm saying politics can explain everything. And can she convince it's her strength, can she convince the public, citizens, our parliamentary representatives that it's the right thing to do. That doesn't come out of this argument to me, because when there's no norm, what we're talking about, the standard, when we can't reach a consensus on anything, and we can't achieve it because the other side just doesn't know it and doesn't want it, and I don't think he wants it before, but he doesn't know it. Then we have this violent behavior. What do we remind ourselves of lex perkovic, lex komadina, maybe this lex Ivo? I don't know. It's a commission to investigate a murder that works all at sixteen. Well, we've been listening here to an explanation of why it needs to be done. So why didn't it work when it was perfectly explained anyway. So all those violent appointments, raping democracy in the election of HTV directors, in the election of a civil defender when you voted, yourself proposed, defended general proposals. That's the level of democracy we have to testify about today. And now, why is such an opportunistic attitude towards opposition by power towards the people? I can't figure it out myself. The one who's in power, so he has to find ways to talk to everyone. Such an opportunistic attitude is paid by losing elections and I welcome it. Okay. You're ready for that, but if this is the cream on the new justice cake President Ivo Josipovic has been talking about for 5 years and what was his slogan with which he became president, if this really is a new justice, then I don't want to participate. This is before me justice in a way that the Party wants, can and will implement it. And there's no other story. And everyone else is irrelevant in that story. And late in the night, I don't know what these other opposition clubs didn't even have a chance to talk about. Because I feel there's panic in the ranks of the SDP, and even in Pantochaka, there is. Let go of what he's got. The campaign is in progress, many say it isn't, but we see that the campaign is more or less there even though here we heard we don't even know when the election date is. The elections were 2.01.2005 and were 27.12.2009. Now we're talking about some kind of 11.01. Well, maybe every second of power is important, so maybe even 11 days longer, it doesn't matter. But whoever can get it, no one will convince me, anyone who can get it can get it by these rules. If he can't win, he can't even get by these rules. Then why are we playing here? Telling a story, the people having fun? So let's give some seriousness to my people. Well, we can't impose stories like this on the evening of the election, explaining that this is something that needs to be done because someone used to think something different. And it's played here and in this part of what my colleague Babic said about diaspora. There's 100,000 votes there. 100 thousand of these millions and 300 of what Ivo Josipovic got in the second round is an important thing, 8%. You know how it went in the diaspora? Bandic 104, he is no longer a candidate, Josipovic 9000. So 104 got Bandic in the diaspora in the second round, and Ivo Josipovic won 9,000. Of course that's it, I mean we don't have what we're here for. I think in the end, I think whatever you're doing, the HDZ candidate will win no matter what these manipulations are, because if we can't influence these procedures in the Assembly, because there's little of us, there's so many of us, we can influence the election result by getting involved, interpreting people in the Parliament in this way, which is achieved with such effects, what are the results of the work of those who compete, who want to compete. So I don't see myself saying no matter what you rape here as a democracy, as a procedure that you can help this current president a lot. In the end, we will have to make peace at the vote that you have changed something on your own again, that we simply, with all the warnings as we warned you about the Constitution, on that famous law when we didn't even want to take part in the debate about lex Perkovic that you were doing wrong to Croatia, that you were doing wrong to this democracy. And then, you know when rules don't apply what happens after that? And don't be surprised at some time that will come when someone applies these explanations and explanations. I don't know that there will be a chance then that you will be able to call on yourself as you were in those times before you became the authority of the great reach of democracy, I don't know, I don't know, and you're influencing it yourself, you're trying to make it so. And all you've done so far has been we can do it ourselves and without you. So if anyone in the future wants to do it alone without you, I'm afraid even a medium on your side will be able to explain the situation. And the best thing to do is to get this over with, to pull this off at all, or not to vote, and then the president isn't wearing that burden on himself that you as SDP MPs wanted to help him with some kind of manipulation. Well, he doesn't need it if he thinks he's the best and the best candidate he'll choose in the first round. Then why would he need this? So if by this law he was elected five years ago, he should be re-elected. There, it's from the heart, the sincerest thing I can think of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89211	Replica, Ada Damian.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89212	I can see that you have dilemmas and that even your head has started to hurt so I can break your dilemma like this and make it easier for you to think, I'll tell you why it's been bothering you that it's in the evening, maybe it's bothering you because it's raining out there, but here I'll just say since I'm sitting really from morning to night in the assembly and listening to your discussions that you don't have so many replicas within your club of each other from that colleague you've said it well and further without maybe some new data and things that you bring this item to the agenda would probably be at the debate in the morning. And about that, it's already been said that this is a technical change, it's not manipulative, and what you think President Josipovic is going to lose about it then, alive or seen. These are your wishes, and reality will be something else, so after the presidential election, we'll see who was right.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89213	Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89214	Thank you very much. My colleague, I don't remember saying my head hurts, I don't remember. I'm just saying it's a good date and it's a good time we're discussing, the night, it means a long evening, in the evening, away from the public. Who's watching this? Maybe rare. Maybe the president's watching, maybe Pantovich's watching, maybe watching. There. And that's what we learned about the replicas inside the club for eight years from the SDP club. Now, in order for me to indicate who was the busiest man in the world, the vice president of the Parliament today, I don't know, some ministers, Bauk, Maras, etc. We learned that from you, and you made it possible for us to lift the correction of the incorrect quote to the replicas, then you said that we would enhance the dynamics of the work if I remember correctly. You didn't warn it would last in the night. And this turned out to be the other one. And then you claimed it was a good solution, you'd probably change it today, probably. Maybe I'm thinking wrong. And as for winning, I have to tell you, and I'm going to be honest with you again, these various agencies, the cro horoscope or the lapsus pulse, or some others, I don't know what they're called, I don't believe too much because I can make up to 12% as in some elections, it's proven, but I feel in the people what the people want, what the people want, inside the people we hang out with, who are around us, etc. And that's why I'm saying maybe it's not good for you to do this bear service to the president, to get this back from the SDP club and support him in his candidacy. Turns out he wants to manipulate himself for his victory. And that's very easily possible. So he doesn't need that. Well, then give up on this, let's not vote this out, and let's just keep going until the election date, and hopefully the government will figure it out once, if that's not the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89215	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote this proposal tomorrow at noon. We are now breaking up the work, tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 A report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media and the Agency for Electronic Media for 2013. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89216	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Selection of Presidents of the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 710. The Proposer of the Law is the Club of Representatives of the SDP. The debate on the text of the Law is over. The amendment submitted by the Legislative Committee was accepted by the Proposer and became an integral part of the final proposal of the Law. ... I'm listening. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah, okay. I didn't see any hands, so explain it to me. I'll take a break because the secretary of the plenary session told me that the HDZ Club in the Croatian Parliament is asking for a break from.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89217	I don't know... Ms. Secretary's information. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[You don't know about that?]] We didn't want to ask for a break, but we wanted to, if you agree, we could ask for a break, but we wanted to.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89218	Take a break. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89219	Stanka, then take five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89220	No, no, no, let's just do what the standards do. Are you looking for a break? Thank you very much. [[/Intruder: That's right.]] Dear Representative Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89221	We're looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89222	Thank you very much. He's looking for a break from the club...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89223	The minority also wants a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89224	Minorities and SDP. I'm setting a 10-minute break. We'll be here at 12.48. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.50 HOURS]] I ask the respected Gordan Jandrokovic to state the position of the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament. Turn on the mike, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89226	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I'll start with what you said, Mr. President, during the debate on a new election law for parliamentary elections. Then you said: we agreed that the schedule should be such that we respect the standards for the procedure for amending the electoral legislation to be resolved in accordance with the recommendations of the Venice Commission and the positions that we have one year before the deadline for the elections. 21.10.2014. So that's what you said, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, for a new electoral law that should define elections for the Croatian Parliament. We now have other elections, presidential elections, and that rule is not valid. So now we are interested in the HDZ Club of Representatives whether there are really different standards when it comes to electoral legislation and that we will change electoral legislation for parliamentary elections a year earlier, and for presidential elections we can change whenever we want, because until the presidential elections are about two months away. HDZ and our club for this reason will not participate in the vote, we will leave the assembly, such as our message, our protest against the way you work here in the Croatian Parliament. And I would remind you, in 2011, when the parliamentary elections were held in the spring, in March, April, May, you insisted on the date of the parliamentary elections that were to be held at the end of the year, calling for democratic standards and achieving the democratic practice we have in Croatia. Today, when we are about 2 months away from the presidential elections, none of you is asking that question, why change the electoral legislation two months before the elections, and we believe that this is not correct, that it is not democratic and that it is a step back in the overall process of democratisation of the Republic of Croatia. Not to mention we still don't know the date of the election. What are the reasons, why is that? Someone needs to answer that question. It's just that we're going back to civilization, democratically backwards. So what are the reasons that we today on October 23, 24th don't know the date of the election that should happen either by the end of the year or early January. You said one thing when you were in question, when you were an opposition in 2011, now that you're in power to completely change the story, you're introducing new criteria, new standards that are a step back in democratisation of political life in the Republic of Croatia. And it is really incorrect according to the opposition, according to the Croatian public, according to citizens that the date of the election has not been defined so far, and it is particularly incorrect that you are now going to amend the Election Law. And all these stories that we had about the Election Law for the parliamentary elections now really look hypocritical, look like double standards because that's where we'll stick to the recommendations of the Venice Commission, and here when it comes to presidential elections we don't care about both the Venice Commission and the democratic standards. For this reason, the HDZ Representatives Club cannot and does not want to take part in the decision, we do not want to give you any legitimacy and we believe that you would still and still have the opportunity to consider and give up these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89227	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Milorad Pupovac on behalf of the SDSS club in the Croatian Parliament, five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89228	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. In 2010, we already had a situation where election legislation for selecting representatives in the Croatian Assembly was changed against the provisions of the Constitutional Law on the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia Article 5, which says that electoral legislation cannot be changed in the year of the elections, one year before the elections were held. We now have an amendment to the Law on the election of the President of the Republic for 2 months, 3 months or we don't know how many months before the presidential election. It is not against the Constitutional Law on the implementation of the Constitution, but it is against good electoral practice and it is against the recommendations of the Venice Commission. Why? I do not know that this has been requested by any presidential candidate we have so far, neither the current president nor the opposition representative of one or the other, and we do not understand why it is necessary to change this important principle of stability, norms in the electoral procedure as one of the fundamental assumptions of the guarantee of stability and security of the electoral process. What we hear as a possible reason doesn't seem to be enough. If media houses have reason to organise their campaigns differently and show results, then let them do so in accordance with their rules and do so in accordance with their possible solutions that will not be contrary to the law. If there is another third reason to question the exercise of electoral rights, then that is an additional reason to be careful. We discussed this on the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure. After that, I don't know if we've had a discussion or a conversation between clubs. I especially don't know that we've had discussions and conversations between the ruling majority clubs. And I don't understand why it takes that kind of practice. I do not understand why there is no agreement on things that are controversial when it comes to taking a common position on such sensitive and important things as was indicated on the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure as important. For this reason, Mr. President, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Democratic Serb Party wants to say first that, with its view that it cannot support this amendment for principle reasons, it does not imply a position towards any candidate or candidate who has appeared in this pre-campion so far. But we care about some fundamental values, stability and predictability, circumstances under which elections will be held. In recent days, we have had such a gallant and strong debate over how citizens will be, have more influence on the election. Mr. President, you have been given a special role and we are pleased that you have given it that this initiative, that is, this need in the Assembly, gets as much better and more significant articulation and final solution as possible. But isn't Mr. President what we're doing today contrary to the basic rule that we have stability and regulation in the process no matter how and how citizens choose. In my opinion, you are in collegiate with that. On the one hand, we are going to make citizens more available and able to have a more direct impact on the electoral process, and on the other hand, for technical reasons, we are going to change the electoral rules just a few months before the elections themselves. It's not good and it's the opposite of rules. We didn't get an adequate explanation for that. And what's particularly difficult for me as a representative in this House is that there's no need to talk to clubs, and clubs have their own opinions. I'm saying they have no interest, they're not asking for anything. They just have an opinion they want to talk to them about. That opinion is at the point of view of the principles and the principles under which the electoral procedure should take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89229	Thank you, too, dear fellow Pupovci. It is now up to the club of national minorities in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89230	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I know it sounds strange in politics when you say you won't follow certain decisions for principled reasons. I assure you, however, that it is only the principle of the National Minority Club that determines us not to vote in most clubs because a fellow Pupovac said before that, that it is bad that there is no consultation among clubs. I'm moving on. There are consultation clubs with certain club members to determine not to vote on how the club will decide. So we won't vote all eight against or abstentions under this law, most will vote against. Why? Because in democracy, the form is important. Because the procedure is important and because the precedents are important. It is mentioned before that in one election we did not change the electoral unit although the Constitutional Court had actually ordered us to change them, we did not change them because we were in the election year. It's a rule for some time, and sometimes the rule doesn't apply. It is important in democracy to stick to principles without talking about that Parliament that does not adhere to its traditions is actually working against itself. The tradition of this Parliament is that no election year changes the rules of choice and tradition is as important as institutions. Today, institutions are being attacked and disrespected in Croatia. For some time, it seems to me that we are more representatives and members of national minorities than others. Institutions are important, traditions are important, rules are important. Next year it will be said we will amend the Election Law for technical reasons as well. What are the technical reasons? Here you go. Well, it's just national minorities isn't most. They're the only rules we're gonna change. It's a technical matter, it's a minority not a majority. When it's not about most, then it doesn't matter, there are no technical reasons, there are no small and large reasons because the precedent is precedent, and when you break it once as already violated by the Constitutional Court, but not us. We were just following what it was, the Constitutional Court made the whole deal unfortunately but we never broke it. Breaking the rules, breaking tradition is actually fatal because as we have said a hundred times in this House form and contents in democracy are one and the same and none of them matter from the other. That's why most members of the National Minority Club will either be against or refraining from this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89231	Thank you, too, dear fellow Furio Radin. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia club in the Croatian Parliament, the respected representative of Peđa Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89232	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear fellow Furio, you are right, it is a form and content that is important. And that's why I'm going to talk a little bit about the content of this law. The content of this law is also the reason why we want to adopt it and why we want it to be applied to the next presidential elections. And the content is, above all, harmonising with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, after that, the content is to regulate the rules on media monitoring of the elections, rules that, for example, all the media on the days of the electronic media supported. Because these rules will allow Croatian voters to receive clear, complete and necessary information on candidates for the president of the Republic of Croatia. Information needed to decide not on the basis of feelings or impressions but on the real information on who is running for the highest and most important function in the Republic of Croatia. The second in content is, we will no longer have to wait until midnight to publish the election results. As in any other election, we'll be able to find out the results at 7:00. I understand my HDZ colleagues why they're against it, because they won't have to wait until midnight to find out they've lost these elections, too. And now we're talking a little bit about shape. The form of adoption of this law is fully in line with the Constitution and other regulations of the Republic of Croatia. The form is also consistent with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. You quoted correctly, in 2010 and 2011, the Constitutional Court said twice there is no legal or constitutional obligation not to change the electoral legislation in the election year. It is something that should only become a good parliamentary practice. But if we have noticed that there is a problem and that this problem should be corrected then it is our duty to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-23-0.u89233	Thank you, everyone. Before I put the final proposal to the vote, I would like to say this: I will stick to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and the Constitution, of course, and within those powers can only act in the Assembly, the Assembly and outside the Assembly. Why am I saying that? For internal parliamentary democracy, agreements and talks, it is not intended for the president of the parliament to participate. Within the position there is one system, within the opposition another system and within the position and opposition of the common third system. My insistence will be in line with what counterpart Furio Radin said, that democratic standards of parliamentary agreements, talks and demands in the interests of Croatian citizens are being built in the Assembly, by parliament and parliament. And my second task is to ensure that what the Parliament says is heard, which is what it advocates so that the citizens of Croatia can see it clearly. And now... Okay, it's also a democratic standard that they don't want to decide on things that are on the agenda. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I am voting on the final draft of the law. The adoption of this law requires the majority of votes by all representatives of the Croatian Parliament in accordance with Article 252. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 78 for, 10 abstentions, and 6 votes against the amendment law and amendments of the Law on the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia are in the text as proposed by the Proposer of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, is very nice, together with the amendments adopted.
