ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u77731	My colleagues and colleagues have a good day. We're moving on with the session. We will discuss: - Proposal for a law on support for job conservation, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 658. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership, the Committee on the Economy. You received the reports at the session. Comrade Furio Radin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u77732	Thank you very much. The National Minority Club is making a decision by Minister Jovanovic to set a minimum number for forming a class in the schools of national minorities, leading to the closure of many national minority schools asking for a 10 minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u77733	A fellow Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u77734	Also on behalf of the SDSS club, I am looking for a 10-minute break together regarding Minister Jovanovic's decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u77735	A colleague of Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u77736	... An independent representative, Don Grubisic, also seeks a 10-minute break. [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u77737	Thank you very much. I'm setting a break to 9.41. It's 9:00.31. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:41 A.M.]] On behalf of the National Minorities Club, colleague Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u77739	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. After problems with the state's prom and enrolment in high schools in languages and a letter from the national minorities, Minister Jovanovic actually continues his way of reducing the rights of members of the national minorities, of course, to education. We remember that the Law on Education in Languages and the Letter of National Minorities was passed after major scandals and large debates on what criteria should be taken. One of the criteria already since then, Minister Vokic was the one about the minimum number of students. We had to wait for democratic changes to be passed by this law requiring two-thirds of the vote in parliament. Of course, there is no sign of a minimum number in this law that is required for the establishment of a class in schools for national minorities, and that is normal. Because national minorities are just a minority because they are small and because in some places, in some smaller places it is impossible to keep schools if these schools require 7.5 or generally if they require a minimum number of entries. However, Minister Jovanovic, in his decision of 14.05.2014, determined that, among other schools with language classes and a letter from national minorities, they had at least 7, short of his decision, that they had at least 7 participants so that they could be established and otherwise, it should be a special decision, meaning a special right that, the ministries. I remind you that, in connection with such a problem, the Constitutional Court already decided in 1997 that no minimum number of members of national minorities can actually be established in order to establish the class. More or less decisions say so and part of the decision on that. As regards the disputed guideline and it was also a similar guideline from Mrs. Vokic as well as Mr. Jovanovic, he estimated that in the relevant part of it it was an implementing regulation that regulates the formation of classrooms in such a way as to determine the exception to the general criteria for the formation of grade departments. And then prescribed a minimum number of 10 students for... The school's education. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the Constitutional Court says, given the generally known facts about the state of settlement and the birth in the area in which the bulk of the majority lives, in this case the Italian national minority, applies to all minorities, it cannot be said that the provision of a minimum number is respected by local opportunities. In addition, the Republic of Croatia signed a year earlier in '96. the year of an agreement with the Republic of Italy and has committed itself to respecting bankruptcy rights. It also has an obligation with the Republic of Hungary, members of minorities, and it is evident that here the disputed guidance puts members of national minorities in an unfavourable position from the present one, meaning in a discriminatory position. We want to remind Minister Jovanovic that there is one history, law and that there are decisions of the Constitutional Court. And we don't understand why there is such a discriminatory attitude towards members of the national minorities. We do not want to understand at all, and we do not understand why Minister Jovanovic has such an autistic relationship with national minorities. We haven't seen him in two years and we've looked for him many times. We never had a chance to talk to him. We don't have a monopoly, of course, on dissatisfaction. And science and higher education, you can see today they are on strike and they are dissatisfied but we are also dissatisfied and ask Minister Jovanovic or to reconstruct his, part of his cabinet and ministry that deals with national minorities or, if not, to share that opinion himself, to reconstruct himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u77740	On behalf of the SDSS representative club, counterpart Dragan Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u77741	Good afternoon, esteemed vice presidents, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's what I said. I'm just like Mr. Radin came forward about this decision that was published on the website of the Ministry of Education, Education and Sports. I know you probably don't know, you haven't seen that decision, but that's what some bad foreign laws are, because the law says that when adopted, so when we adopted the Law on Education and Education in Languages and Letters of National Minorities, and the Law on Education and Education in Primary and Secondary Schools, the Minister prescribed regulations to be published in the National Journal. However, the minister's decisions are not required to be published in the national newspapers, and they can only be seen on websites. This is one of the decisions that directly coincides with the rights of national minorities but also with the Constitutional Court's decision as Mr Furio Radin said. We've been having trouble registering schools for years. The following year, it will be 18 years old that schools are not registered, language schools and a letter to the Serbian National Minority. But to go back to this decision that I said most of you probably didn't see. It is therefore a decision to enroll students in the first grade of high school in the school year 2014/2015. on Chapter 17, point 7. And I will just remind myself, or I will say that the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities Education in the native language has established as the right not as a possibility, and there it is necessary to pay particular attention to this decision and in the text itself, because it formulates that they can, not in a way that the Constitutional Court has said about it, and I will read you here from that decision a certain matter in the conclusion of the Constitutional Court in a solution that says: "The Republic of Croatia has committed itself to respecting the acquired rights of members of national minorities, and it is visible here, the disputed guidance puts members of national minorities in an unfavourable position since the previous. It is obvious that the organisation of teaching in an instructional manner would lead practically not only to a restriction but to a complete shortfall in the rights of national minorities, and its consistent implementation would undoubtedly result in a significant violation and a negation of minority rights acquired. It is the fundamental opposite of international acts that must be respected. And here I will say that among other things, one of the international acts is the European Charter for the Protection of Regional and Minority Languages. When we talked about the question of duality, bilingualism, then it caused a lot of controversy here. And if a decision like this was written, maybe I should say it in the term of the conservative government, then maybe I'd have an understanding. But when it's written in the mandate of a liberal government, the social government, then I see that there's something wrong and I strongly oppose this decision. I hope she changes very quickly on the Ministry's website. Unfortunately, as I said, I think decisions like this should be published in the National Journal, so that they can be seen, to be more visible than they are now than we have to follow, so to speak up every day to the Ministry's website. And what I would end up saying is that, like all other problems, the problem of national minorities is being used, so it's not the problem of national minorities. This is the problem of institutions and state institutions and ministries that do not understand the laws, which do not read the law, which does not implement the rules that should and give these very failures the opportunity for minorities to consume their rights, and they will decide whether to use it or not. No one can deny them that right. I hope that these decisions will be no more, and above all, I hope that this decision will change. Here are the SDSS's views. I hope they were clear enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u77742	What's the breach of the Rules of Procedure? I'm a colleague of Ivan Shuker's.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u77743	Madam Vice President, you hurt the Rules of Procedure because Mr. Montenegrin said you Croats probably didn't see it. I don't think this has anything to do with you Croats, but if the government made a mistake, then you can't name one people. And don't impose any collective guilt on the Croatian people again. It's a minister's decision. It's probably very funny, Don Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u77744	I didn't notice. I may have missed it. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent List of Fellows Shandor Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u77745	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues. Well, I'm hoping that this debate in fact, and it can't be the point of the debate, is it, because as far as I know by the Rules of Procedure, there's no replica here, it won't go that way. I would say a few words about this decision to enroll students in the first grade of high school in the school year 2014/2015. The year that was brought and published. This decision, among other things, declared that schools on islands, areas of special state care, mountain and mountain areas and said schools with language and letter of national minorities can, with the approval of the Minister of Science, Education and Sports, depart from the structure, and set up classrooms with at least 7 students. As Mr. Montenegrin said, the right to education in the native language is one of the most important interests and one of the fundamental rights of each ethnic group, as well as the Hungarian national minority in the Republic of Croatia. The same rights or similar rights are given by members of the Croatian minority in the Republic of Hungary, where there is a well-developed system of primary and secondary education of the Croatian community. The issue of education of members of the Croatian people in the middle of the Republic of Croatia where they live in the minority was also well resolved. There are also such settlements in Baranja and there is a possibility that in minority schools departments in Croatian should only ask one parent to teach in Croatian. The start of education of members of the Hungarian national minority or Hungarian community in today's Croatia is also about Turkish conquests. After the Mohaška battle and the Turks' breakthrough, there was an expansion of reformation and a thousand forty-years-old prominent priest and writer Silobod Mihalj insisted on improving education and education, and opened primary schools in numerous eastern Slavonia and Baranja settlements and high schools. Thus, in the 16th century there was a high school in Dragonac, and this high school was founded with the aim of spreading the faith and spiritual empowerment of the people in the fight against the Turks. Teachers were educated people from Detroit, Wittenberg, and lower classes taught what might be interesting today, says young priests who had been required to work in rural schools for three years after their studies. High school education in the Hungarian language has its continuity meaning since the 16th century and when it all comes together for 450 years, 450 years means high school education was interrupted only during the old Yugoslavia when Aleksandar Karadjordjevic made a decree to abolish minority schools. After World War II, a law was passed that allowed schools in Hungarian to be opened in all those areas where there are at least 20 taxpayers, meaning at least 20 children who need to attend that school. We have four primary schools in the Republic of Croatia today and we have one high school. All of them work according to model A, so teaching is done in Hungarian. We have few students, but we are a minority and for a reason we have few students. Areas where these schools are more or less occupied. We know that the reintegration of these areas took place in '97, '96, '98. years, that this is the area, that it is actually the year when only those who were born to stand, to go, to go and now is just expected in a certain way to include these areas in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia to give some results, at least as far as education is concerned. I think and believe that the application of this decision will end the continued existence of secondary education in the Hungarian language, and this will not only make up for it, not compensate for the loss to the Hungarian community, it will have lasting consequences, and moreover, one of the fundamental rights will be abolished.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u77746	Thank you, finish. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u77747	I don't think what the Turks have allowed should be a problem right now, and that decision should be reformed or abolished.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u77748	Thank you. We will now continue the debate on the proposal for a law on support for the preservation of jobs. My colleagues and colleagues have a good day. We're moving on with the session. We will discuss: - Proposal for a law on support for job conservation, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 658. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership, the Committee on the Economy. You received the reports at the session. We will now continue the debate on the proposal for a law on support for the preservation of jobs. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Minister of Labour and Pension System Dr Miranda Mrsic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79795	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honorable MPs, respected MPs. I hope that this law, as well as the law that we will defend behind this law, will get the support of all parliamentary clubs because support for the preservation of jobs is something that is extremely important in times of crisis, but it is also important in times when there is no crisis because it ensures that companies that come into difficulty, not by their own fault, but by losing the market or other events, as is now in Slavonia when floods have destroyed factory halls and when workers cannot work, cannot create, cannot earn their wages, and they are not guilty, therefore objective circumstances, this mechanism is extremely important. As noted, we in the Ministry of Labour and Pension System have launched a mechanism that, despite the fact that there is still no law on support for job conservation, but fortunately there is an active employment policy to preserve jobs for companies located in flooded areas, which at the moment cannot work, will provide support for the preservation of these jobs so that all workers in the companies located in the area. It's 110 companies, 433 workers. They will be paid in the next three months 50% of their net salary. And in this way, we believe that we will contribute to restoring production as soon as possible, to keep workers in their jobs, on the other hand, to keep the company working and doing business with workers and, on the other hand, to allow life to be normalised very quickly in these areas. We are in contact with all employers in the area and the entire mechanism is under way to approve this measure for these companies and these workers. It will be granted to any request within a very short period of time. This is something that tells us that this mechanism should remain, that this mechanism should work and that this law that will be before you today in the first reading should be adopted very quickly because it will allow us to preserve jobs and that instead of people going to the Employment Service to stay in the company, to be educated in that time, to raise their quality and abilities and their way of working. In the sense that the employer can predict some new technologies that will develop within the company and that it can educate workers, and the costs of education of these workers will be borne by the state budget, i.e. the state. This is already the third attempt to establish the mechanism in Croatia. I'd like to point out that here, for example. in Slavonia, we have made it very clear that this mechanism can be very easy to establish and that it can be possible to preserve jobs. The first law was passed in 2009, which means the Law on Support for Job Conservation with effect from 31.12.2010. The law unfortunately failed in its task. The task was noble, clear as I have already mentioned, but it set complex criteria for the use of support, and this is primarily proof that the entrepreneur in 2007, in half of 2008, did not deal with the loss and that at the time of submission of the application, there was a level playing field on the name of public duties. By law, employers were also limited to the conditions of use of support in relation to the number of workers required and the period during which they were obliged to retain a certain number of workers. In doing so, the employer was unable to carry out appropriate restructurings in order to survive on the market during the support period, all of which led to the fact that this law was not consumed and that it was not implemented. The employer refunded the cost of up to 20% of the pay difference and contributed to the salary of workers prior to the reduction of working hours, and it was possible to use the support during the period from 14.08.2009 to 30.06.2010 for a period of 3 months, i.e. for a maximum period of up to 6 months. All of this said that in this law, we had overstretched things so that by the end of 2009, only 4 applications were received for the use of support for the preservation of jobs for 236 workers, out of which support for 27 workers was granted at the expense of 47 thousand 324.69 kuna. This tells us that both the best intention and the law if it is not put in place in a way that it is enforceable and that it responds to the objective that the law should ultimately lead to the fact that this law is completely dysfunctional and did not lead to what should have been the basic measure, which is to preserve jobs. In July 2010, the amendments to the Law on Support for Jobs, the criteria for granting support, have been tempered and made more accessible to employers who have a solution to the R & D payment on behalf of public administrations, however, although the criteria have not been better achieved in that year than those of the previous year, since only 3 applications for the application of measures for a total of 67 workers have been submitted. Unfortunately, none of them were approved, simply the criteria set were completely inconclusive. After the expiry of the support law for the preservation of jobs, they become part of the implementation activities of the Croatian Employment Service. Under the measures of the National Employment Promotion Plan 3.6, improve the adaptability of workers and businesses. The measure was aimed at workers by co-financing the net wage difference before and after the introduction of the full-time work programme when we will be 40 hours a week and up to 20% the pay difference. At its meeting on 15 November 2012, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided to extend the application of the National Employment Encouraging Plan by making a decision to apply this measure until the adoption of a new law during 2013. The results carried out during these first two years of application have shown that, given that, to the extent necessary, the employer’s requirements have been met in one hand, they have led to an increase in the number of workers using this measure, 533 workers in 2011 and 170 in 2012. So, something more. However, this pointed to the necessity of changing and harmonising measures towards the need of the employer in temporary difficulties and in the same year 2013 was included in the package of measures it is important to preserve the workplace. In this package, therefore, this measure is aimed at employers in difficulty, and on the other hand, it allows employers at this time when they have difficulty keeping workers but we have also facilitated the procedures related to use compared to previous years. In 2013, 32 applications were submitted, of which 11 applications were granted for 1310 workers, totalling 2 million 246 thousand 103.39 kuna. So, the most we've had since that first attempt in 2009 to date. We felt that the measure was clearly clear, that it should also be translated into law because the law must allow employers to keep jobs in Croatia and that is part of the whole of the labour legislation. As you know, the Labour Protection Act will be on the vote in this House, the Law on Representativeship, the Labour Act, so these are the three laws that regulate the labour market. I can say that this is the fourth law that ensures the social security of workers and, on the other hand, enables workers to stay working in a company that is in difficulty, not to go to the Employment Service without, on the other hand, allowing employers to keep quality labour, so that they do not have to go after workers who are responding to their jobs after recovery, and that because they could not keep them and that they could not pay them to leave the company and get a job. Unlike the current measures and the 2009 Law itself, we are introducing another novelty into this law, which is that we will allow employers to use support from this law to be educated at the same time. This means that there can be education in the company and outside the company of interest for which the company has needs or interests that this company will need in view of the development of production, possibly new orders and new technologies. As I mentioned, the cost of this education will be borne by the Croatian State. As far as the law itself is concerned, the law is in line with the social partners, we have worked on this law for over a year, and it has been in line with the Competition Protection Agency, now that we have joined the European Union with the Ministry of Finance. As far as the aid is concerned, it is therefore a support that goes to workers who have no problem with protecting competition. Also, this law, unlike these previous laws, has established the conditions, the height and the way in which support for the preservation of jobs is achieved. Therefore, two types of support, support for reducing full-time and support for education and training of workers as small-value support. So we are fully in line with the European Union and the European Union Directive. On the other hand, we prescribe which employers, which employers can use to support these conditions for granting support, on the other hand is prescribed by the Institute of Short, Full-time. What we allow this law to shorten working hours in the day or in the week so that employers can organise their working hours very effectively. So far, this has been limited to those, a well-known unemployed Friday, we felt that employers should have full flexibility in determining the working time when this law is applied so that they can reduce their working hours within the week or they can go for a set of days when they will not work. Also, before it was, and in the previous law of the possibility of using support from 3 months, this law provides the employer with the possibility to use support from 6 to 12 months. The funds for the implementation of this law are at the position of the Croatian Employment Service so that, as far as the financing itself is concerned, there will be no problem. What we all think we will have to do is make an additional effort for employers who come into difficulty to use this measure before they come into real difficulties, which means when they come to a pre-determined settlement or bankruptcy because they can't use the support from this law at the time. The level of support for education and training provided for by this law corresponds to the amount of financial assistance paid to an unemployed person by the Croatian Employment Service during the period spent on education or training under a special regulation. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 30000. For legitimate business reasons, an employer who finds that 25% of the total number of employees in him will not work for a maximum period of 6 months may allow these workers to acquire the necessary knowledge and skills for staying on the labour market during that period. I note that all of these criteria that we have built into this law have been harmonised with both union centres and employers, and with chambers and we expect that, between the two readings, we will add to these criteria in a way that they can be applied, to prevent abuses and on the other hand, to enable this law to be used. The economic and social and financial impacts that this law will achieve are multiple, will primarily allow for faster restructuring of employers and their adaptation to the labour market without reducing the number of employees, will allow for job conservation, retaining employment, the social security of workers and their families, and clear social peace. Better targeting and resuscitating funding from the state budget, so what the European Commission also tells us is that in measures related to unemployment, we need to focus as effectively as possible, and that means that the funds that we invest ultimately bring added value, so if we need to get more than one euro invested. And that's why it's up to all of us to bring these measures to life. The implementation of this law in the state budget provides for 5 million kuna for 2015 and 2016. Ten million kunas. We will clearly follow the implementation of this law and see which direction it will go, so how many demands we will have. We expect that in the first year of implementation of this law we will manage to preserve around 2,000 jobs, which in this crisis is an extremely large number. I hope that we will get the support of all clubs for this law that goes towards preserving jobs, ensuring wages, ensuring the company's work and in some way being a social measure that will ensure that workers remain employed and do not end up at the employment office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79796	Thank you, Minister. We're moving on to replicas. Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79797	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, you're saying that, under this law, the noble idea of preserving a job like the same idea was when the first original law that ceased to apply was passed in 2009. But all those criticisms that rightly endured that law and which are... the prejudices and difficult complicated conditions that the employer has to fulfil, this law has not been resolved and certainly the almost identical obligations of the employer under this law remain in force, i.e. the same obligations that the employer had to fulfil and under that law which had ceased to apply. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I agree with you that it would be good if this law could help employers in Slavonia in flooded areas, but given that there are 5 million kunas that are foreseen for the entire Republic in this year, so for all employers in the Republic of Croatia, and a large part of them are already and, perhaps, some of them have already used such support, I fear that power will win this law when it comes to helping employers in the area of Slavonia. Since it is very difficult to meet the conditions laid down in this law in order to provide these support, only 14 employers who met the conditions under the old law are evidence to be able to support the state budget. I therefore believe that nothing important has changed this law to make it easier for employers to... this kind of support and then, by the basis of this law, employers, especially in Slavonia in these areas, will hardly be able to provide such support. It would be better, the government has a desire to help employers in Slavonia, if she had been going with a special form of support, not based on this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79798	Thank you. Replication response, Minister Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79799	I'm sorry you don't read the good stuff. So the previous law made it impossible for employers who went into restructuring to use this measure. So this law allows employers who go into restructuring to use this measure. On the other hand, the previous law required employers to bring in different documents to prove that they were in difficulty. If you have read this proposal of this law these documents have been reduced to a very simple and small number. I note that we negotiated these criteria with the Croatian Employers' Association and therefore the employers were satisfied with this part. I'm sorry you don't read and compare one law and the other. In any case, in this law, the financial bonds by the employer that he must contribute to obtaining this support are significantly less than they were before. As for Slavonia, therefore, Slavonia does not go according to this law because the law has not yet been passed, Slavonia is going towards active employment policy measures in which it is very clear that the criteria and employers who are there meet these criteria and 110 companies with 433 workers for 3 months after those projections are costs of around a million and 300 thousand kunas, so just enough to ensure that these people work there and clean their halls and thus allow them to produce. It is very important because there are companies that are related to... wooden and in conversation and with these employers it is very clear to them and to us that this is a measure that will allow these workers to stay working, to keep these companies going.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79800	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79801	Your Honor, Madam President. Mr. Minister, so okay if it's any improvement,... The Act of Support for Preserve Jobs, but this seems ridiculous to me all together. Yesterday, we've been discussing the Family Law that you've brought in, and we've been through it all day, and we've been getting married and we've been breaking up, and yesterday we've been hanging out about some things that aren't important at this point for the state, and now you're continuing some kind of law on support for the preservation of jobs that costs, let's say it's only worth 5 million a year, and you're throwing cars, to hold some elections of 70, 100, 200, 300 million and no one's saying anything. The bottom line is, where you are and what laws you've brought to preserve 70,000 jobs that have been lost during this 2.5 year, that's the point. I feel useless this morning, this should have been passed by a regulation with legal powers, so the Prime Minister or the clerk some third or... it could've brought the Prime Minister to sign, and we'd lock ourselves up with other serious things. I feel useless. I'm going to a coffee shop. I am in favour of helping something, 5 million kunas... not all morning to get, now by 5:00 p.m. we'll be running around with what. And 70,000 jobs you've lost, you haven't passed the laws to preserve those 70,000 jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79802	Would you like to speak to the Minister? Miranda Mrsic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79803	Well, I'm sorry that the distinguished representative Marasovic is mixing pears and apples. So 5 million kunas in the budget are not the funds that are intended for measures of employment policy action for what we will help companies in Slavonia, for this are the funds within the Croatian Employment Service, in the position of preserving jobs and there we have enough resources to help these companies in Slavonia. 5 million kuna at this point in the state budget is because we don't know how many companies will use this year, by the end of the year, how much this measure will benefit. I note that in 2013 for 1300, if you listened well to me, we spent about 2 million kuna on 1300 workers. Since we expect that this year we will have about 2,000 workers who will use this measure, therefore the companies that will use this measure, our projection for this year was that it will be 5 million kunas. If you need more, always get inside yourself... The Croatian Employment Service with some other items that have not been spent may re-purpose that if more needs arise, funds may be re-scheduled. Therefore, it is our projection that at this point 5 million kuna is enough, but if there is a need for more, these funds can be found within the division of the Croatian Employment Service. This has nothing to do with Slavonia, Slavonia goes through another mechanism and quite certainly the funds we need to preserve jobs in floods threatened places in Slavonia are in the budget and will be paid to these workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79804	Ivan Domagoj Milosevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79805	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, the Honorable Ministers, two things are really in the eye of this bill. First, we all testify together that for the past 2.5 years, you've passed dozens and dozens of laws by emergency procedure, and now whether it's such a great situation in the Croatian economy, so in this case you should go in two readings, that's the first. And second, you predicted in this year 5 million kuna, and for 2015, 2016. Ten million kunas. What does it mean, that the government expects the situation in Croatia to be worse next year or that this year there is no money like there was no money for young people to continue projects because money from the EU is waiting? I mean, we all know in this assembly what the problem is in Croatia, and secondly, we all know that really every kuna that goes to support and employment will return to all of us and to the Croatian state. And as for your response to colleague Bačić about flexibility, it seems to you about like this, that this bill has made something flexible for employers at the level as if we were in the first, second year of crisis. But today we're in the sixth year of crisis, we're about seven years of crisis. So finally let the public administration start living in the real world even though her salary comes regularly and doesn't need to be earned. So start writing laws decently in accordance with the time we live in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79806	Replication by Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79807	Well, I hope so, and I expect that in your debate, since you were Deputy Prime Minister and then you could have passed this law, and you passed the 2009 law, which was absolutely non-injurious because in 2009, there were 43 workers, no one. Since you've already passed this law, we may have been able to save 10, 20, 30 thousand jobs. But you passed a law that no one could enforce. We are passing a law that we believe is enforceable, that can be implemented, and on the other hand, as far as employers are concerned, employers have cooperated intensively on this law. The Croatian Employers' Association paid its salary to go into this law with these criteria. I hope that we will get from you or from all other proposals how to further flexible this part so that employers can use this mechanism even easier but on the other hand we must be aware that we must prevent abuses. And that means someone is using this measure to be unfairly competitive on the labour market. So we have to look at it from the other side. You could have passed the law, brought it in which it was completely impertinent, and you can't accuse us of now passing a law that is late. As far as the funds are concerned, yes, five million is half a year. Next year we predict it'll be 10 million because it's all year. Therefore, we do not predict that there will be more or less than we predict that it is as much as it happens in the business itself to get companies into difficulties, coming out of difficulties. So here's one example of the company AD Plastic, which we also helped preserve jobs last year, is one of the very successful companies this year. The funds for this year until the law is adopted are at the position of the Croatian Employment Institute of Active Job Conservation Policy Measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79808	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleagues Ivan Grubisic and Damir Kajin. They're not present, the club is losing the right to debate on this wheel. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourist-Stranke labor colleagues Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79809	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. The law on support for the preservation of jobs Croatian Labourists in first reading will support. Why? Because we believe that any preservation of a job is very useful to this country although we have a certain part of the objection to the text of the law itself and we think that it should be more quality as it gives it a certain opportunity for better solutions to be made between the first and second readings. And I believe that within that, the ministry will consider certain remarks and make a draft law for a second reading that will be better quality and allow for greater preservation of jobs. Is that when we see that and here there was already talk that we had certain laws that went according to an emergency procedure, and they were completely irrelevant, but when it comes to preserving jobs, the minister here said a year ago with the social partners was discussed with this law that has 23 members of us, of which we can say somewhere a dozen are more technical, so there are some 13 to 15 articles of the law that were seriously needed to be discussed with the social partners and the speeds that were discussed when it comes to preserving jobs. It is clear that as Croatian Labourists, we cannot be satisfied because in more than two years, more than 60,000 jobs have disappeared in Croatia and we think that this should have been a very alarming situation and an alarm to create a quality law that could make it possible to preserve jobs to a greater extent. But what's there is, we have a situation with 332 thousand unemployed who here a few numbers have improved because we have seasonal employment and we have a catastrophic situation when it comes to the ratio of those who work and those who are retired and very soon we will get to that situation that the ratio is going to be 1:1 which will be unsustainable. Therefore, the preservation of each job, so the follow-up to the work of each individual who works, is very welcome. And I think that this law will at least in one part mitigate these certain consequences but it will not solve all those issues because they need some other measures to do so. It is clear that this part of it, if the worker and stays in the work process, is both cheaper and better for the country itself, because in one part it will be relieved not to be directly at the cost of the employment services, because in that part 60% of the working time it is still paying certain contributions and financing and giving its contribution to the work itself, in the financial effects of the state itself, but most importantly remains in the process of work, so it is not expelled from the process of work and further there is a situation that employers need to make certain plans and programmes on how to get out of certain and crisis. The previous law, it was quite rigid and it had a lot of bad provisions, improvements in this law are both better quality and that Croatian Labourists support but, as I said, some can be better. And what's in any case to praise that we in very little law so far and the bill we've had and that's the question of analysis, an analysis of what it was in about five years, and then we can see the effects of the previous law, and we can see what the potential effects of this future law will be. So we see that in five years, there was somewhere involved with the part-time work of 2040 people, and there were only 14 employers. But in that part, there's a little bit of a misunderstanding in that data, so if it can be answered, if it's known, a little bit of financial indicators confused me in that part because in 2011, 533 workers were involved and 3 million kunas were paid for it. In 2013, 1310 workers were involved and 2 million 480 thousand kuna were spent and they were longer in the programme for a month and a half than those in 2011. Well, I don't know what that difference in financial resources is or isn't this for 2013 fulfilled all financial obligations or I would need it for clarification. When it comes to education then in 5 years 2298 workers were involved and there was a significant number of more employers of them 119 got involved. But what we have to say about the law, which is a matter of turbulence, times of crisis where employers don't have any great security, and that's part of the reference to this law. He could be like this at a time when there are stable operating conditions, when employers see some kind of vision and future and some kind of security in their business but there's just no such thing today. Thus, the measures stated in Article 2 that the employer must be, having a loss in business for two years. There is also this part of the final account of 2 months that lasts in the current year, and the development of a recovery plan that is quite complicated in Articles 4 and 5. So if there is a debt, unsettled obligation to the tax administration or if it has to be credited in order to settle those obligations or to make that agreement with the tax administration on the pro-longing of those debts so that it can participate in the allocation of those funds at all. We think that this period is too long in these economically difficult situations because employers who have had a negative business for 2 years who find it difficult to come up with such a situation that they can plan quality something before they will take a number of other measures, and that means they will fire all those workers who are employed at a certain time, will reduce their salaries to workers. And clearly as the ultimate goal then it will be his last salvation to try to keep part of the workers if he has any chance of surviving the co-financing of these funds to do less even though his production simply allows it. Therefore, he would ask to consider the possibility of these provisions being a little more flexible by the second reading. If we are talking about another flexibility, then there should be more flexible relations here too, how to compete easier to allocate these funds and that workers really stay in the process of work. Furthermore, I have to point out in some way that it is cheaper, and that is what I said at the beginning about the state that the worker is working because if he is at the employment office, then he is fully burdened by the Croatian Employment Service. But also these quite alarming data that tells us that we have about 59 thousand blocked business entities with about 33.5 billion kuna, 29000 legal entities with 23200 employees, 30200 individuals with 18100 employees who are 41,000 employees with blocked accounts who are not in this position to possibly participate in the allocation of these funds and the preservation of jobs, and I'm afraid if in pre-fashional deals and procedures we're going to lose further jobs in that part too. So within that I am for what the minister said was punishment and abuse of the potential allocation of funds, but in one part it is necessary to facilitate this approach to allocate the funds to others with clearly one greater and more quality control. And most importantly, this law, like the previous one, has given a lot of bad effects, may give a little bit of a better effect, but far from it, it will solve certain issues when it is fired by workers and without a real vision of getting out of the crisis, the recovery strategy and the development of the economy, this law will not give us any effect to be able to say that it has solved certain problems. It will be a drop in the sea just to solve these problems because employers simply don't have security, they don't want to go into risk because this risk is also their uncertainty, and here in some way we also enjoy with frequent amendments to the laws that affect their business so they don't know what will be waiting for them tomorrow. There is no strategy which is a short-term recovery and a vision of the strategy for the development of this economy, which is long-term so that they can also focus on it. They're practically living from today to tomorrow, and they're waiting for what's going to happen to them in this period, whether they're simply going to survive. And for that reason, I would ask that if it is possible for the second reading to try to make as simple as possible criteria for granting support as possible, to reduce this part of the deadline, although the minister said it was in line with the employers, but when it comes to employers, it might even suit them to come to support these funds in this part, because that's the other part of their strategy, so I can tell us it's more important because these laws don't give us the effects. But give us as much flexibility as possible regarding the dismissal of workers as possible, which is the other part of the labour law problem, and they probably have some arguments there. Reduce the criteria, facilitate the layoff of workers because here are these laws and measures to keep workers from having certain effects. All of this must be taken into account, weigh both sides but find the best solution. And as I said at the beginning, any preservation of the position of Croatian Labourist-Party will support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79810	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79811	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague, you only mentioned partly industry, industrial development, strategy. Namely, without a clear strategy and vision of the new one, it would be said that re-industrialisation and industrial development of Croatia, we can prescribe whatever measures we want, any regulation, any legislation in the form of regulations such as spraying with holy water. These are measures that produce minimal or almost no results and where this money is actually redistributed between those employees who remain in employment will also pay their contribution, so the HZZO pension and social fund will be met in some ways. In this state will also have a small return of money to the treasury, and 5 million kuna compared to all those losses from the destroyed industry and the ignorance of the undeveloped strategy of the total Croatian industry are indeed far, far greater. And that's why until we figure out that our food and other industries are wooden, etc. Industry, the foundation of development in general of industry in Croatia and new employment will be difficult for us with such measures on the green branch. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79812	Zlatko Tušak, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79813	Thank you. Well, my colleague Grubisic, I completely agree, and that is why I said that without a real strategy and a short-term recovery of the economy and short-term and long-term development of the economy, employers will not have any security, will not invest. There are no new jobs without investment, but it is difficult to keep existing jobs. Yes, these measures are a drop in the sea, they may help a little somewhere, but they won't solve all these burning problems, and until we don't even get out of a particular crisis and we're getting into that dangerous area that I said we already have slowly near one employee and one pensioner, which is a very bad indicator. And the government could think about a part of it, in this part where workers don't work 40 percent of the time, so in a way that they're free to engage them through some kind of public works and not on a minimum salary but on a normal salary which would be a much bigger contribution, and they themselves could help with their own effect in their work to make some extra....
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79814	On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Vanja Posavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79815	I thank the esteemed vice president. Honorable ministers with assistants, respected colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will support the proposal for a law on support for job conservation. In fact, the economic and financial crisis has a negative impact on employment and trends in labour market developments so that for the fifth year in a row, the Republic of Croatia notes a decrease in employment rates and growth rates and the number of unemployed. Job conservation support is introduced into the labour market in 2009 by the adoption of the Job Support Act, but by the end of 2009, 4 applications for the use of post-preservation support for 236 persons have been received for only 27 persons. Obviously, the law did not achieve the expected results. In 2012, the amendments to the laws were tempered with the criteria for granting support. After the expiry of the support law for the preservation of jobs, they become part of the implementation activities of the Croatian Employment Service under the measures of the National Employment Promotion Plan 2011 and 2012. The implementation results during the first two years of application referred to the need to change and bring measures into line with the needs of employers in temporary difficulties, and the same measure with the beginning of 2013 included in the package is important to preserve the workplace. This package allows employers to receive financial support, but also facilitates the procedure. During 2013, 32 requests were received from which 11 were granted for 1310 persons. Support for training carried out through an active employment policy measure of the Croatian Employment Service, i.e. the education of employees, is intended to support the education of newly employed workers who do not have the appropriate expertise and qualifications to carry out jobs where they are employed and for employees with the aim of retaining a job when the employer moves on to new production programs or introduces more technologies and standards. The inclusion of persons in education encourages lifelong learning, which affects raising the level of employability of unemployed persons, and in employees to raise the level of efficiency and productivity at work. Unlike the support for employment mainly used by small and micro employers, training support is used by medium and large employers. In the context of the overall reform of labour legislation, and also in view of the good experience of EU member states, and with the support of the social partners, it has therefore joined the creation of a new Job Support Act, which introduces a series of improvements in relation to earlier legislation that should encourage employers to use support and preserve jobs, and workers to improve their employability and position on the labour market. This law should regulate the conditions, height and way of providing support for the preservation of jobs by shortening full-time and education or training of workers during a period during which they do not work for justified reasons. The new support system could achieve that up to 40%, up to 16 hours a week, employment and jobs in periods of reduced business activities and reduced labour needs could be preserved through full-time reduction institutes, which could lead to the dismissal of part of workers. The measure of education and training of workers in periods where they do not work for legitimate reasons would allow the employer to keep employment in such a way as to train or train them for the purposes of his business process or to acquire the skills and skills required on the labour market in order to be employable in the event of termination of the labour contract. Support for the reduction of working hours shall be determined as a proportion of the wage for the number of working hours for which the worker is reduced working hours and, above all, to the minimum wage amount according to the specific regulation. In addition, financial assistance to persons secured on extended pension insurance on the basis of a fixed-term employment contract for fixed season jobs is linked to minimum wage and cannot exceed the minimum wage amount for the period when the seasonal worker is not working but is in extended insurance for the first three months. With the aim of harmonised rights of all workers in periods when they do not work, the level of support is uniformly equal to the minimum wage level because it allows for full-time labour rights to be exercised with it. Support for education and training is in line with the support of unemployed persons during education, i.e. workers during education earn their prescribed or contracted salary but part of them in the amount of financial assistance, as well as the costs incurred by the Croatian Employment Office. The adoption of this law will bring about effects in the field of labour and employment such as the end of negative trends in the entry into unemployment of persons whose jobs could have been preserved, and the increase, use of support and their better targeting. Economic impacts will reflect the maintenance of jobs and jobs during restructuring, particularly in the sector of the processing industry, trade and construction. The law also has social effects because it aims to preserve the social security of workers and their families, to strengthen the influence of workers or trade unions on conditions for the use of support and thus to ensure social peace. For the sake of everything previously put forward, and it should also be said that this legislative proposal harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. The SDP club will support the adoption of a law on support for job conservation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79816	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79817	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues for the preservation of jobs this law is I'd say it's of some kind of, say, some kind of minimum value. But what is more important is the co-ordination of ministers in the government in order to preserve or even increase the number of jobs. Here I will give you an example of, for example, one of your ministers giving a negative opinion on HBOR's loan to Djuru Djakovic of 150 million kuna. Your minister, one of the ministers, gave a negative opinion and is on the supervisory board of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Without the 150 million kuna director of Djura Djakovic, who is a company of strategic interest for the Republic of Croatia, will go bankrupt and 1200 workers will go to the Employment Office. So, here we're losing 1200 we're going to lose a worker because of this one opinion or measure of one minister, and here with 5 million kuna we're trying to save jobs. So it's something that in the government there is one non-coordination or disorientation of the measures of both ministers. And because of this law itself, maybe we'll save something, the good intentions of this law, but on the second, on the bridge, they've won and they've lost fat on the pot. That's how it goes with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79818	Replication response, Vanja Posavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79819	Thank you. My dear colleague, I again point out that the minister has already said here several times five million kunas, so it's not final. So you're always talking about something the minister has already denied. Secondly, do not talk about the subject and the subject is the Act on Support for Job Conservation. The same when you say I agree with you that "Djuro Djakovic" is one of the factories of strategic interest, but such factories in the Republic of Croatia have more, and should be seen far, far in the past and that is before... Allow me, I've listened to you, so go ahead and listen to me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You should see back 5, 10, 20 years ago who was with these companies selling and not only in Djura Djakovic, but also in the rest and shares and this and that and where those shares are, in which places etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79820	Domagoj Milosevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79821	Well, thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, dear fellow Posavac who you're talking about in the past. Both you and the Honorable Minister mention 2009 on a few occasions. So if I haven't been wrong since 2009 and since the first law, five years have passed, of those five years 2.5 years, the current government is responsible for the Croatian state. So does the public administration in Croatia have the ability to learn, advance, improve or anything? Or isn't it? Or maybe you removed absolutely everything from that administration, at least in the middle level, brought your party buddies and then simply no one knows how to work there anymore. So why 2.5 years and 60 thousand jobs to pass a new law? And otherwise, as far as this coordination is concerned, we will probably hear a little more about co-ordination at noon and how it went in the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79822	Replication response, Vanja Posavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79823	Thank you. Well, you colleagues may not have listened well to me after all. In 2009, I stated that the law was then passed and as you said in the replica, unfortunately in practice he was not fully enforceable, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79824	And Branko Bacic, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79825	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Posavac, you have also, in your opening part, here I repeat my fellow Milosevic, referred to the 2009 Law, as the minister also referred and said about how almost impertinent he was in practice. I am telling you that this law is too much, and according to Article 5, the employer must meet the considerable conditions and provide extensive documentation to be the beneficiary of this support. On the other hand, one of the main criticisms of the former law was that the employer had to pay and settle obligations to the state budget with the basis of taxes and contributions. The same obligation also states that the employer must regulate taxes and contributions to the state. So I don't see what it is, which is an important step in relation to the current law. And by the way, I'll tell you that in 2009, the SDP club praised the idea back then when it passed the law itself, but it proposed a completely different model. Read the 2009 phonogram Mr. Vidovic said on behalf of the SDP club, and you will see that what your club is proposing now and the Government is proposing that it is absolutely contrary to what you said in 2009. Because this kind of incentive model, or supporting employers at the time, you said it was bad and now you might have made it a little more advanced, not enough to be encouraging and that it would really allow more employers to report. On the one hand, you said in 2009 that this model was bad, you proposed a completely different model that you didn't actually suggest now, but you tried to advance an existing model that I agree with you didn't prove effective.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79826	Replication response, Vanja Posavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79827	Thank you. So, the 2009 law, which was passed as a law, may not have been bad, but precisely because of all this documentation, it was inconclusive. You're saying now that this law is actually insane and it's asking for too much documentation. That is why, among other things, this law in the first reading and already on the parent committee has therefore been observed and is asked by all the members of any party to make sure that the procedure is not as complicated as before. And that's by the promoter and respected. Until the second reading, certain articles will introduce certain things, norms, so that there will be no more complicated documentation procedures. And as for employers to make use of the measure, they have to pay contributions and everything else, so they have to pay, I agree with that. Because they are, they are contributions for the worker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79828	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, a colleague, Domagoj Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79829	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honors Minister with an associate. Well, it sounds kind of cynical when after 2.5 years of acting responsible for state governance in the sixth year of the crisis and over 60,000 jobs destroyed by the government announces the Job Conservation Support Act. For the past 2.5 years, the majority in this assembly, or not the majority, but this right-hand part, most of us talked about it uninterruptedly, don't raise taxes, don't introduce new taxes, destroy jobs. Over the past 2.5 years, we have been constantly saying that if you want to encourage investment, you have to create a positive investment climate, and this cannot possibly be a unstable tax and economic policy, an unpredictable tax policy, taxes that change every six months, but you hoped that the Strategic Investment Act would save the whole country. We've been telling you for the past two and a half years to support open medium-sized entrepreneurs and craftsmen, only they can create new jobs at this time and preserve existing jobs, but not you've passed a law under which of the 1.1. In 2015, craftsmen will pay VAT immediately, instead of billing. So you decided to do those who are the weakest and most affected by a crisis that is the hardest attempt to save what is to save the sun, and this is the state budget of the overpriced state and a completely inefficient administration. The result is only in the first quarter of this year, if someone missed a billion euros, I repeat a billion euros in the government budget deficit, and the public debt has reached almost 70% of GDP. We also spoke to you on committees when passing or amending the Law on Pre-departure Deals, do not let it destroy jobs for medium and small entrepreneurs and craftsmen. There was a way to protect jobs, and so one of you is saving other people's jobs, you're destroying jobs just this most potent, I'm going to say at this point, and these are medium and small entrepreneurs craftsmen. That part that can really create new jobs. The result of all this I have listed is the fact that Croatian entrepreneurs leave the country some, not all for now, thank God. Some have to move the plants from Croatia, third they invest somewhere else and foreign investors, as we know, bypass Croatia and right now that we are finally a full member of the European Union. Does anyone really think more in this assembly that all of this I've listed has anything to do with or has nothing to do with what the current government has done for the past two and a half years? Or, I stress what she missed and was responsible for doing for the past two and a half years so that everything that happened doesn't happen. After two quarters of economic growth, I will remind us all, in 2011, nine quarters of economic downturn. In recent weeks, however, we have witnessed that a new approach has been designed, and that is, we will now no longer compare the quarter to the quarter of the previous year as over the past twenty years, but we will now compare the quarter, the first quarter of 2014 compared to the last quarter of 2013. Maybe if this comparison doesn't work, maybe a new one should be introduced or any quarter found in any previous year, or on which first quarter of 2014 might be positive, so the government will say here well we have economic growth. Well, my people, I mean, how come? So what are we gonna lie to ourselves, does someone think that by lying to ourselves and falsifying the information that this is how we're gonna get out of the crisis? Well, good. Mr. Mrsic spoke several times about 2009 and compared it to 2014, but I must repeat it here, it's been five years, two and a half years you've been acting in power, you could, five years since 2009, we've been in crisis, so I guess you could've improved that law before, you could've probably left it to the administration if there's anyone else who can think about adopting that law before, to make it more quality. But to go back to the bill, so the bill itself begins with a correct, very correct assessment of the situation. However, this assessment of the situation in the introduction of the law significantly deviates from all the announcements and statements that we hear from the Ministers themselves, and I think that the highlight is this part that explains, says the consequences that legislation will have, so I will quote by adopting this law, "The effects in the field of work and employment such as ending negative trends in labour and employment such as ending negative trends in the unemployment of those whose jobs can be preserved, and increasing the level of use of support and their better target. ... in relation to labour-intense sectors, by setting realistic criteria for the use of support such as conditions, heights and method of delivery. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, this law also achieves significant economic, social and financial impacts." Afterwards, the whole development of economic, social and financial impacts which should probably be supported by the act of passing such a law itself. But then it's really after that genius, so the projected funds are grand 5 million kunas. The country itself, which increased retail growth in the first quarter by buying me 300 million kuna cars, predicted the government 5 million for such an important law. And the best part is actually what's just coming, and that's in 2015 and 2016 it's going to be 10 million kuna, it's really great. So either the government assumes that next year will be much harder or much worse, or actually which is probably unfortunately so, and that's for purely bureaucratic reasons since you've missed as tens of laws so far, the law as important, the Law on Support for Preserve Jobs bring in an emergency procedure, not he goes into two readings, and then there some bureaucrats probably calculated so we'll put that 5 million kuna well because it's going to be autumn anyway. Well, people, if you're saving someone's jobs or not saving jobs, you have to make up your mind. Do you support job conservation or do you not support it? So I want to say that this is exactly how unfortunately the current government is able to destroy and quite good ideas by moving feathers. And we'll think of a youth employment project, even with 1600 kunas, but it doesn't matter. So it turns out that there's no money for it again, even though each kuna is returning to the state budget directly or indirectly, it's actually, it needs to be determined next, and it's delayed. After we receive funding from the European Union from this youth employment project, it is likely for a period of time after all these young people have moved out of Croatia, then that money will certainly come in handy and good help. Therefore, there is no dilemma that in 2014 unfortunately in the sixth year of the crisis, Croatia needs a Law on support for the preservation of jobs. However, not in this way and not in all incompetence, all inconsistencies and all infirmities produced by the government itself. Unfortunately, it should be observed, here at the end of May 2014, that the current government was unable to use anything, but none of the potential that objectively provides for entry into the European Union. So we haven't actually been able to provide any new opportunities and progress for Croatian companies, we haven't been able to provide a clear framework, an investment-stable framework for attracting foreign investors, about EU funds I think it's better that we don't even talk about, the only thing you managed to use, which is youth unemployment to reduce by leaving Croatia for tens of thousands. But if I don't, the HDZ next month, by the end of next month, will send a bill on how we see how employment should be encouraged, especially young people, and now I won't talk about it, there will be opportunities I hope to discuss. And when we talk about the very support for the preservation of jobs, I think right now absolutely the best support for the preservation of jobs in Croatia would be the resignation of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79830	Dragutin Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79831	Dear fellow Milosevic, you said a lot of things that I agree with, but there is something that we rarely point out on such occasions. Yesterday I heard a statement from the manager, director of a large Croatian foreign bank in Croatia that this crisis in Croatia had not been created by banks and the financial sector. Is there the social responsibility of employers for the crisis and the possibility of leaving the crisis? And due to the acquisition of the ownership of a large part of those who are today seeking, among other things, such a measure and because of HBOR credit lines that are always on favourable terms, pre-profit agreements which write down a large part of the tax debt, tax relief, active employment policies that are carried out back in 15 years, which are financed by public money. Private investment can be given the character of strategic investment, so all benefits as well as state investment, public private partnership. That's just a few measures I counted which state, any government, and you, while you were minister, were implementing some of it, went in favour of capital. Investments are lagging behind, using a series of benefits obtained through government laws or measures and then investing abroad, the profits achieved in Croatia are abroad, not in Croatia, with a gross price per hour of work of 8.8 euros in Croatia, in the EU it is 23.8 euros, therefore one of the cheapest labour force. And there's been a huge balance, all the companies are blocked by 25.7 billion, and citizens are 25.6 billion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79832	My colleague Lesar, thank you. The reply to the replica Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79833	Thank you. Dear colleague Lesar, two notes only. When you talk about foreign investors in Croatia, on the one hand we must finally accept the fact that if we want someone to invest in our country, it not only wants to earn and earn profits after paying taxes all and hiring people in the Croatian state, but rather that the public administration will have to make an effort to create conditions that they really want to come. And who wants to come? So we want serious investors, we don't want speculators, it depends again on us and the conditions that the Croatian state makes, i.e. the Croatian Government and the entire administration for these investors. Secondly, I don't think that in 2014 Croatia has a problem with labour and capital and work is in a huge problem, at least this Croatian capital with a price of over 6.7%, or interest in banks. What's really our problem, which is the relationship between public and private. Therefore, the public sector that choked or choked continues to be a private sector that is completely incapacitated, which should compete on the EU market where interest is 2-2.5%, and our entrepreneurs pay 6, 7, 8% and more, I will not even talk about the conditions that public administration provides at all levels in one Germany which today also, companies from Germany compete on the Croatian market, and ours should be able to export. So our problems are really huge, and what I'm going to say is very polite, very disappointing, which is that the current government has absolutely done absolutely nothing for the past 2.5 years to change that. In fact, everything she's done has actually led us to a total depression that isn't just more economical but is both social and every other.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79834	Marijan Škurić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79835	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow, you have mentioned and spoken of cynicism, especially this law, the Employment Support Act. And then you pointed out that the economic downturn has been over the past six years. I must remind you, yes, indeed for the past six years, there in 2008, '09. when it didn't fall, but it hit our economy 6% to 7%, and we can also say that we must apologize to you then that you as a former minister haven't made good use of what you've given, which is the big projects you've achieved, signed many investment contracts and started those investments and, of course, you've buried many shovels that you've launched, and now I don't know whether in the service of only those promotions where you were truly an absolute master at it. Well, I would really like to point out, here, we apologize for not taking advantage of your very large economic legacy that you have left us and, of course, after this speech in Croatia, I guess cynicism will take on a whole new context as you have stated it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79836	Domagoj Milosevic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79837	Thank you. So first of all, I'm going to find out the truth about being Deputy Prime Minister for Investments in 2011, and what it was 2011. The government then left this government a short list, you can check it on the internet that this is true, and that is so 2 quarters of economic growth, which means technical exit from recession, a decline in the number of unemployed, an increase in investment, look at you, you have on the site of the CNB, you can go to various sites and check out what I'm saying, completed negotiations to join the EU, which at this point, you can laugh dear sir, at this point the fact that Croatia is a full member of the EU is the only stabilising factor for our economy, unfortunately. And as for the projects, I must say, in 2011, it hasn't been for many years, and it's been quite complex, but since then this government has been in power for 2.5 years. Unfortunately, I haven't noticed, but not one new private or public project that would happen. Zagreb New Airport 2011 performed a whole tender, New container terminal in Luci Rijeka, you can wave your head all you want. The Pliva projects, the IKEA all regrettable, I say here, unfortunately, the backlog of 2011. And it happened afterwards, and thank God it was happening, and I'd be glad as a citizen of this country that tens of projects went new after that and that you rightly criticized that we didn't do it anymore in 2011. Unfortunately not, and the results are felt by all and citizens who have been living perfectly for the last year, two.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79838	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79839	I listened very carefully to your debate. Do you feel as I do that these measures proposed by this law are only one small patch of a large and painful wound that simply cannot cure that wound. I think that now with all these proposals we're late, and that amount of up to five million kunas when we look at the number of unemployed in our country is so minor that it can't be much helped by a simple fire measure to show that something is going on. You mentioned foreign investors, I'm often in contact with them unlike a few years ago when they ask me if we can guarantee that these conditions will be for the next 5 to 10 years, I just have to tell them no because the laws change so quickly, and so quickly changes that tax press. And here's the pre-fashion bill. Who were they going to save? They went to save those who generated the debts. I guarantee you that the same ones that were saved will continue to generate some debts. Without concrete access to this problem, without concrete measures that will primarily apply to the tax press, and even to the part we have been talking about lately, that someone who has done some kind of service has been charged some kind of VAT work only when he collects that service. This way these little ones are destroyed, and these little ones are simply generating new jobs. In my opinion, this is just some kind of patch, and there's nothing important about it that can be solved, money being thrown away. Not to mention the destruction of Gorski Kotar only by one move when they were stripped of the status of the mountain-mountan area. For a small municipality or city, you took a million or two kunas, and you shut down the possibility of development, and the state did not receive 100 million kunas in its budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79840	Domagoj Milosevic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79841	Thank you. Well, I agree, colleague Klaric, with everything you've said. However, we have already come to a situation when speaking to foreign investors who have been coming out of despair for the past months, for example for the last year who say literally we would have left Croatia but we have invested some money so we can't leave and we have no one to sell our projects to. So it's a real situation that's been going on for the past 2.5 years. Is there anything harder or worse today a year after we are a full member of the EU that foreign investors say people so we can't invest. Why? Well, we don't know in six months that you're going to bring a new tax, which is our guarantee that any project we're working on will be paid off. So the current government raised tourism taxes saying that after fiscalisation or during fiscalisation it would reduce tax burdens. Yes, for a drink, but once again in the accommodation you lifted the tax burden. So talk to some serious investors in Croatian tourism who have cut off all investments, so is someone talking to these people any ministry, any vice-president of the government for foreign or domestic affairs. So I think give people a little talk to those people one-on-one, one-to-ten, go to some conference outside of Croatia, listen to what's said, do something. Well, I mean, we all live together in this country, and no one wants to go to hell.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79842	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79843	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A colleague of Milosevic and before you spoke loudly in the Croatian Parliament until you were able to manage when the Croatian Assembly of HDSSB was established was for these measures, therefore, to change this government. So, it's not really your original idea. It's the HDSSB's. But when you're already talking someone said cynicalally or ironically that this is a fire measure, then a little bit reminded me of that fire department and the monopolism that governments in Croatia and from a position may not even be so hard to talk about all this because this monopolism is not only about the production of the apparatus but also about the supervision of the service for the service of the apparatus and it's changed since 2011. Look at the interesting time when you were the minister. In fact, until then, the MUP has given the power to service fire extinguishers, since then it no longer gives the MUP authority and fire departments lose the right to service appliances, but only one company has to do so. And when we look from that position, then it shouldn't be easy to speak in your context, but it's a lot harder for some others.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79844	I don't know what kind of replica that was about appliances and fire department. Domagoj Milosevic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79845	Yes, if I may answer, my dear. So I hate to talk about personal matters and personal affairs, but when you've called me here, I'm going to tell you like this, so first of all, the famous rulebook has been changed significantly before I entered our country's political life, significantly before you can check it out. As for the monopoly, you've missed a bit of a century and a decade. So the monopoly of any company in Croatia except public companies ended in 1991, and after entering the EU, and before that you have a whole range of products that are from China, which are certified in the Croatian state when you pulled me by the language without any order, without the protection of the domestic producer. What is it that I am now supposed to destroy in politics the only Croatian production of fire extinguishers? Should surveillance of fire extinguishers be left to the Chinese or the Poles? So you know what you're talking about? You don't know what you're talking about, but you usually attack at a personal level. You want to move on? Since I was in politics, the Croatian Parliament has been buying German appliances produced in Poland. So isn't that a shame for this country? You have 100 people out there trying to survive six years of crisis. So what needs to be destroyed because I got into politics. So think about what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79846	Stay away from such replicas, replicate what the speaker said. Vice President Milorad Batinic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79847	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Namely, my colleague Milosevic, I expected to replicate your presentation on the draft law you very little about, almost nothing. And I understand your discussion in part of your perception or footage of the situation, you're talking about the period since you said yourself active in politics. But we've been here a little longer, we've remembered since before 2000, so we've remembered since 2004, since the crisis was under control. So let's also remember in 2008 what happened, including in 2009 and so on. You'll agree with me that nothing positive can happen either, or negatively, through the night and the movement of the feathers. When we talk about the situation in which the Croatian economy was located, I would just like to remind you in 2005 when loudly, very publicly, it began to talk about the internal indifference which was in some way a generator and it was found that the generator of the bad situation in the economy was to a greater extent. That's what nobody's talking about, nobody's keeping quiet, just looking at the period 2012, 2013 and now 2014. I think if we want to be objective then we have to go back a little bit, a little bit backwards and see why it happened. They're not the only reasons, I agree. This law that I can practically conclude that you don't support is a continuation of something that was good, a positive intensity, a positive intention. Will the law, or above all, bear the label P.Z.E. If they get the desired results, of course we'll see, we'll see. However, according to projections since communication itself lasted, of course I believe that primarily all of us and the minister himself would have been more pleased that this communication could have lasted a month, two, and that the law was already in force. But you can usually say when it comes to an emergency procedure why an emergency, when in the first reading, we can always find criticism, but I say, let's remember a little bit of a few and I would even say 10 years back.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79848	The reply to the replica Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79849	So I agree, but let's talk now if we're talking about a concrete law whether, and that's what I said in the saying, is this a time for this law to be passed by an emergency procedure or a few months. Whether to limit it to 5 million kuna and predict 10 million kuna for the next year. Well, I said in a saying on behalf of the club that there is no dilemma that unfortunately 2014, and I'm afraid next year, Croatia needs a Law on Support for Job Conservation. That's what we've all been talking about in this Assembly for 2.5 years, but we're probably not listening to each other. I try to speak on boards a few times, but I have no idea that we actually manage to talk and communicate in a serious way. That's probably why Croatian citizens recognize it. But we've been trying, for the past 2.5 years, to list everything we've warned you would happen. Why didn't you listen to any of that? Not you, this government. Why did new taxes continue to be announced, so why? Well, it's a basic economic school. In the sixth year of crisis, raise your taxes, destroy everything, no one else spends anything on us, invest anything, nothing. People leave, those who buy, buy beyond the borders of Croatia because it's cheaper there, my people. So, some items are cheaper outside Croatia's borders where wages are multiple averages than in Croatia, so let's talk about it, there are measures, there are people who can do it. So how many times have we told this government in the last 2.5 years, so get some experts, so there's no shame in not knowing, it's a shame not to ask those who know. What happened? Nothing. We're hitting on neighborhoods that we're going to compare to to prove that there's growth and we're going to announce some kind of optimism. So unfounded optimism is even more devastating and brings the Croatian people into complete hopelessness. But that's the problem, for two years, it's completely unfounded because it announces something better, so that's why people are depressed. That's why young people move out because they don't see the perspective. So let's look in the mirror once, let's play what happened 10 or 20 years ago, now we live. Now here at this point we can do something better or not, but we won't if we fool ourselves and lie and we won't talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79850	Thank you. Minister Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79851	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I'm sorry that here, we heard Mr Milosevic on behalf of the HDZ Club, I didn't, at least myself, hear any constructive suggestions on how to improve the law. In no word did you say you needed this article law, we're talking about accessing employers, we need to sort it out one way or another. On the other hand, I would like to correct one inaccuracy that has been mentioned all along, which is that in 2011, there has been a decline in the number of unemployed in Croatia. That's not true, because that's when you violently sent 15 thousand people into education and thus artificially reduced the number of unemployed. In 2012, they returned to the employment office again, if you will, we can list to you exactly which people, who went to school violently, simply to hate the number of unemployed because it was pre-election. As you know in 2012 when the amendments to the law were passed we then made it very clear about this change of law that people who go to education and... , they are not deleted from the employment office, they are not deleted from the records because they are still unemployed, they will be deleted at the time when they receive additional abilities and have been employed by the foundation of that education. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's absolutely incorrect, there was no drop in the number of unemployed in 2011 it was artificially created, it will never be able to hair the number of unemployed in such a way because we in law clearly said who was unemployed and in the process of education is still on the list of employment institutions. Thus, we have disabled the hairstyle of the number of unemployed. When we talk about another inaccuracy, so this law is not a fire strike. This law is just a continuation of what you failed to start in 2009 with a law that was inadmissible. Why didn't you change it in 2010 when he stopped working and then passed a little better law, so I leave history and people to judge it for themselves. But let's talk numbers. In 2009, there were 2 users, an average of 27 people included, 4.5 months, 47,000 kuna already said, no one. In 2011, this measure was involved in active employment policy measures, therefore there is no legal vacuum, and it does not stand at all for your finding that 2.5 years we have had nothing to give now. We have and we will still have, so at this point until we pass the law in that position HZZ has 10 million kunas, so the support for preserving jobs is there, they're being spent. At this point we have 953 workers using these supporting measures, so the system works. The best example we have is Galeb Omis, who used support measures last year, and this year she hired 70 new ones because she managed to get over that period and it's a characteristic and it's a benefit of this measure. I hope that's clear to everyone. We wanted this measure to be and strengthened by the law, which means that the measure that is successful, which is good, which works, here's an example of Galeb Omis, is also mutilated. Five million because it's half a year. I note that in these past years we have never used more than 10 million kunas a year. This is why we also made a projection in 2015 and 2016. This isn't a measure that goes to hate the number of unemployed, this is a measure that goes towards allowing people to keep their jobs and stay in their jobs. Therefore, at this point, 5 million is quite enough for what we believe employers or workers will benefit from this measure. If it shows us by the end of the year that it is more then we will clearly increase those funds in the budget for 2015 and 2016, but we believe that at this point it is a sufficient number. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79852	Thank you. Replica, Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79853	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So I have to disappoint the Honorable Minister, and I'm going to count it out, I probably won't remember all the measures that the previous Government had, when we have to keep going on about the past, not at all about the present and the future, I'm going to pass, except for this law that I agree with, that I was saying on the other side of the 2009 barricade on behalf of the employers' association that was too inflexible. I'm going to remind us all here of measures like tax debt to wars. It was taken over by the current government. I'll remind you all of the funding models A and B by HBOR where HBOR started taking over part of the risk. And that continued the current government. I'll remind you of the funds of economic cooperation set up by the former government, continued this government. The crisis tax was abolished 6 and 12 months earlier, respectively. It is obvious that it has a positive impact on the Croatian economy in 2011, including this employment that we probably won't agree on, but it doesn't matter. The fact is one, that is that the investments of this side grew that year in 2011, that they grew in '12. They're going down. So unfortunately, I have to find out, which is what I haven't seen except for pre-fashion settlements, no serious idea that has been significantly improved because otherwise we wouldn't be where we are in the past 2.5 years Croatian economic situation. Unfortunately. And we have warned you, the pre-nuptial settlements that I am not going to discuss here today with all the negativity and arbitration, in the least case, so they brought and entered into the Croatian legal framework with pure arbitration. But yes, we will see only the real effects, how many jobs I hope are saved, and how many have been destroyed by craftsmen, medium and small entrepreneurs. And only in the end, and that's when we talk about the number of unemployed, unfortunately 60, that's what statistics say, in the past 2.5 years of the government's mandate, 60,000 have been destroyed for jobs. This is seen year by year, month by month, and data suggests that several tens of thousands of young people left Croatia, those who would unfortunately be at the bureau today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79854	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79855	Dear Representative, so when we talk about the active employment policy measures, we were brave enough to strengthen these measures, to expand them. You have to remember, I see that 1600 kuna is praised, I think we look at the records, the debate that was when we brought that measure of 1600 kuna, which you were saying then, and now clearly we were convinced and we are glad that you are also confirming that this measure of 1600 kuna is not ideal, but in times of crisis, the only thing that allows young people to get to such a desired job. At this point 15000 young people are being trained, so they get that year's work experience and that's what the benefits of this measure are. As far as this period is concerned, about 4,000 applications are granted, the measure is therefore going further. What we have promised, it goes on and will be financed and has already been financed from the European Union's funds. The 22m-euro has sat at the expense of the national fund and is being used and started to be used for this measure. So everything we promised, that's what we've accomplished. I'm sorry to say once again, at least now we may not be in replicas getting some constructive proposal on how to improve that this law works even better, to better enable employers to access this measure. This is what I expected of you as a person who deals with the economy and who is an employer, who may come at the moment that you will need to use this measure so that I am sorry that it has not been used. It may be used until the end of the discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79856	Thank you. Next replica Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79857	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, it's nice for you to explain to us what you're doing as a minister. Your hundred employment measures, it's all nice and positive, and it's nice to listen. However, the results are negative in your work. It's the only thing that's said to you one way or another. Because the problem is, I think to you that your experience comes after the wrong decisions. So we keep changing some laws because they used to be worse or guilty, and you always interpret them as the best. Because how else do you interpret your story and your story that you've been working on this bill for a year and then you write this sentence right on the other side that says, "The reduction of employment is followed by an increase in unemployment." You understand? This is hard to understand, meaning the reduction in employment was accompanied by an increase in unemployment. That's not understandable. And when you compare it to that statement you made at the beginning of your term that everyone tried to solve unemployment and that you would solve it, so when you put it in relation to those 385 000 unemployed there at the end of 3 months this year, it turns out that you're saying one thing, and in reality something else is happening. And that's obvious proof of failure. And you're saying that it used to be wiped with rubber, that's what you're saying. that the data had been haired. You're doing it today! Well, you erased tens of thousands. It's known to everyone that you don't have to go after that famous stamp at the unemployment office anymore, but you have to contact the counselor. If you do not contact him within three days of the fourth day, you are deleted, no confirmation is admitted except for hospital makeup. How many have been erased? Do you have any information? You won't give them because this number of 330 would be much larger. I think what you're doing and what you're offering doesn't solve the unemployment problem. Admit you're a failure and it's time for you to leave. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79858	Thank you. Here's your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79859	Well, distinguished MPs and at the time of your Government at the Croatian Employment Service were worth the same regulations, not me, so they were even more rigid and that means that if you didn't show up at the Employment Service the day you were announced, then if you didn't justify yourself then you were wiped out. And it was wiped out the same thing. I was just looking, I can deliver you right here for yours to clear it up for you and me once. I'll get you the numbers of people who've been deleted since 2008 so you'll see it's always the same number. These people are deleted after a certain period of time by law are re-recorded. So they're not lost anywhere. What we've done now is cut people's costs, because people are unemployed. Someone has to come to the office, take a train, bus or tram to come and have nowhere to go. Thus, we are now doing what we have done to contact our counselor in order to enable them to reach that position. Therefore, as far as the procedure itself is concerned, it is much, much simpler because at that time, there were ranks where people came for a seal that was completely unnecessary. They can contact their counselor in any way, and we do not see any major problems in this way. On the other hand, when we talk about the number of unemployed, he's big. But you have to look at the trend, and that trend says that in 2013, we hired the largest number of people in Croatia since the time of the crisis, and on the other hand, to look at the entry into, you don't have to laugh. I'll send it to you, obviously you don't understand the data. Therefore, I will send you information where it is very clear that the entry into the unemployment records falls because of those coming from working relationships, which means that the number of cancellations is reduced, that the economy is reconstructed and that employment is going.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79860	Thank you. Next line, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79861	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. You've already respected us several times today at the HDZ Club that we don't understand, we understand enough the provisions of this law, so I agree it's not even easy to study a law of this size that has 23 articles, so I apologize if that's why we're wrong. So in that sense, I ask you one more time because neither is your quote that you gave in the opening statement that this law does not apply to entrepreneurs who are in a pre-determined settlement. I have to say, I didn't find it in this bill. Indeed, this law does not allow entrepreneurs who are beneficiaries of the Commission Regulation relating to small aid on the one hand, on the other hand, employers using employment support, so I did not read that those in the pre-departure agreement were also. If we know that and to assume that, first of all, the users of this law will be entrepreneurs who have certain difficulties and therefore will go into this procedure under this law if, therefore, they are not users of the Small Aid Regulation, if they are not employers who receive incentives for employment, if they are not those in the pre-departure settlement and cannot apply even those who have failed to comply with their obligations to the State. I really don't know who's going to get into this system, then who's going to be able to use this support, and we know that potential users are the ones who have some difficulties. In this way, this law and your statement that those entrepreneurs who are in the pre-demand settlement process really remain a small number of those who will enter this system because the practice so far has shown, and even in the past two years, that entrepreneurs who are not in crisis do not generally enter this job-preservation support system.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79862	Thank you. Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79863	So I don't know if you've read the Pre-departure Deal Act that clearly says that at the time when a pre-demand deal is launched to pay workers' salaries are in the first row and that the immediate payment of workers' salaries continues. It is logical, then, that this law cannot be used to pay wages. Therefore, the law is very clear, so they use those employers who are in difficulty. Here's an example of Galeb Omis. So at the time when they had fewer orders, when they didn't have enough work instead of sending people to the Employment Service they used this mechanism through active employment policy measures, people stayed working there, new jobs came and they now hired 70 new workers. Therefore, it is very clear and the law and it is very clear which employers can and should use it. What I expect from you, which I hope to get from you, because here we have been discussing all morning, is how else to allow employers to better access this law, that there is no abuse and that the paperwork is even shorter than it was. The law was born for a year for the reasons why the interests here are conflicted, and on the one hand there are common unions and employers, but on the other hand for a long time we have agreed to Articles 4 and 5 with the aim of making it more applicable and I expect you to have observations about how on your part you think if you criticize so much that the law will not allow people to approach, so that employers come to this, then show on your part how you think they will be able to approach. I note that in 2013, we had nine employers, 1310 workers involved in this programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79864	Thank you. Next replica, Branka Juričev-Martičev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79865	Thank you very much. Well, you also talk about this law as fire measures. I'd rather say these are propaganda measures. As we have heard before from colleagues Bačić, we have made life so complicated for our entrepreneur, the potential user of this measure that he will surely give up and will neither use these 5 million kunas that are extremely miserable for one such measure. Every now and then, we have a new measure that is almost impossible to use. I will mention one of the measures of professional training for work without establishing a working relationship, the measure that you have frozen at one point and then again under public pressure, where young people of high professional training are unfortunately forced to work for 1600 kuna, which is below guaranteed minimum personal income in the Republic of Croatia. And when it happens that someone and on one hand wants to offer their work for 1600 kuna and employer who wants to use it then on your approval is waiting months. Then again, it continues to stand, that measure cannot be reused if previously 50% of such children have not been taken into permanent employment by such young people. I warned you, and personally, that a public tender is necessary, then we know what we have again. Why not change that law and meet those young people directly after that training when we see that the young person in that work collective is of a quality and that he would be very happy to remain in a working relationship so that we could receive it. No, we need to call a public tender. Furthermore, given that this measure is not to be said frozen, you say you release those solutions but extremely slowly, and there are employers who are willing to finance themselves from their means again we do not know whether it will be a work contract or an act contract. Namely, it's neither a work contract nor an act contract. I would ask that when you suggest a measure of quality to prepare her, and not only can we advertise with her, but also use her.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79866	Time. Thank you. Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79867	I don't advertise with that measure, maybe you're advertising with your replica. So the measure is very clear. Fifteen thousand young people at this point are to this end, four thousand newly approved demands, last year 19 thousand. When we talk about the success of the measure it is very clear, 60 to 70% of young people are hired after a year. When we talk about the real sector, it's even better, so 50% of them are employed by the same employer. Since the employer does not have a public tender obligation, most of these young people were automatically admitted to the employer in the real sector. For the public sector, we have a public tender obligation, it's within the law. So we don't want to, and we don't think there's any need for things to change in that part. Because on the other hand, a public tender is a public tender. Therefore, there is a very clear way of hiring in public administration. As regards the aid, it is clear that one employer can no longer use support because he will then come into unfair competition with someone else who does not benefit from this support. And these active employment policy measures are in line with these restrictions with the European Commission. What you are proposing is that we are inconsistencies with the European Commission, that we can lead to a particular company that would in such a way as you suggest using more support would be in unfair competition with those who are. Thus, in the real sector 50% of these young people are likely to be hired without a public competition. We don't have that control whether a public tender or not but knowing how employers function because they said after a year go ahead, here's your job contract, go ahead and keep working on that job. As for employers who want to finance this measure, there are no problems, they can open a traineeship and we will finance 50% of his salary for this traineeship.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79868	Thank you. And the last replica, Kresimir Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79869	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you've said a lot of things, but you don't seem to have co-ordination with employment agencies. Namely, in the employment offices they know well that there are 8 packages of measures, 122 measures, 3 are used and it has been a long time since they are used because they often say there is no money. So, some new year's rebalancing, I'm curious about how much you estimate by the end of the year that there will be no money for those who want to use certain measures. But looking also at the office pages so far has included, a newly involved 3984. Looking at the number of unemployed in 12 years has never been higher. So I expect to get information here in the Parliament how much money will be missing by the end of the year and what measures will live and not.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79870	Thank you. Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79871	We made it very clear, there are funds. As far as measures are concerned, they are exploited on a full scale. All measures are in operation, no measures are put on hold. What is happening now is that the Employment Service approves the measures, when we talk about this measure of work without a working relationship, there is an ongoing negotiation between the Croatian Employment Service, the field offices and employers, and the whole process that is going on. Therefore, the funds for active employment policy measures are secured through both the state budget and the European Union funds. Therefore, the measures will continue and there will be full funding.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79872	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HNS club Igor Coleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79873	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, respected ministers with a co-worker. Of course, unemployment is one of the key if not possibly the key problem of the Republic of Croatia, and there we do not have to lie and we will not lie about it. It is a problem not only because it carries material problems and material accidents to people who lose their jobs but also, of course, it causes a loss of confidence and in some way, a loss of contact with society and with the everyday lives of the community, and it is the same and which times greater problem than the very material problems people face. We, my party HNS and I often talked in this House about freedom and of course we can always discuss how much we are free and how much freedom we have as citizens, but what's safe and what there is really no debate about is that when we run out of work, we lose a great deal, and what little freedom we have as citizens. And that is why, of course, it is in everyone's interest that in all possible ways that we can come up with and in all possible ways that we can propose to try to prevent job losses and people's unemployment, especially in situations such as situations with this law when it comes to jobs, the existing workplace with little effort and little incentive may be preserved. In addition, throughout this approach, it should be extremely rational because support for the preservation of the workplace can cost the community less or much less than it costs to lose that same job to the same community. And one of our fundamental obligations and parliamentary representatives, in particular the Government, is that all our actions to the community or to the taxpayers, or to the citizens, are reducing our burdens, reducing our costs rather than constantly increasing them. And this law is part of that mosaic in our opinion. We didn't consider it a universal solution to solving unemployment, we didn't have the impression that he was so presented or that he was so designed, but what we have the impression and what we think is a piece of mosaic in a whole range of measures designed to prevent job losses, or growth of unemployment. Therefore, either under the law or through various measures of this type of aid has existed since 2009, i.e. to improve since 2008. And the law that is before us and which, of course, I will immediately say HNS supports, introduces, in our opinion, a series of newspapers and improvements based mainly on experience from previous practice in these types of measures in which this law does not speak by entering other aspects and not by entering other models of problem solving. This law regulates both categories, i.e. support for the preservation of jobs and support for training or training of workers. There are several related objectives that the law seeks to achieve. We find it most important to increase the level of use of support and their better aim, because the support has been so far but can agree that with their utilisation and their effects we cannot be fully satisfied. In this sense, it seems important to us as a detail that the appropriate law, of course, starts operationally as soon as possible, in that sense it is good that the deadlines for the adoption of regulations and the appointment of commissions are set at 15 and 30 days, respectively, so that we do not waste time by further bureaucratizing. And speaking of red tape, what seems particularly important to us is that we try to control the commission that gives us an opinion and control its work in a way that, contrary to the classical bureaucratic habit of ours, and otherwise, administrations often do not think of ways to prevent people from accessing the means, how to give people a negative answer, rather than actually being a facilitator of those who seek help and those who feel that this help would really come to them. And second, to make the money available to make the most of the connection. And I can agree that the money available is really not something that we can all faint from a large amount. And also hoping that what the respected minister said stands, so in case the need for greater amounts is shown that we will be able, that we will be able to be able to put the budgets in those budgets and predict them. This is why it is important, of course, to follow the primary application of this law, it is short, it has 23 articles, so it is not some complicated story as far as the text itself is concerned. What is important is that it is really applied, that the application of this law is monitored, and that if it is found that something is wrong, then we have either too few people who appear or have too little percentage of the implementation of the requirements, then that we do not wait a long time to wait but to immediately start to analyse what is the problem and then in walking and amending the law, but also by changing the implementation and practice of this law address problems and that in this small part we try to get the maximum out of this law. I can even agree that it's a patch, not a bandage that wraps the whole body, but we can't blame the patch for being a patch. Let's try to make sure that the patch we're talking about today is successful and that in this area where it is really intended to achieve its effects and in this sense we support this law and, of course, hopefully, the hope dies last, we hope that it will also have serious and visible effects in application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79874	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas, Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79875	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Coleman, I agree with you that this measure can only represent one stone in the mosaic of a number of measures that go for, not just the preservation, but the ability to create new jobs. But the problem is that there is no mosaic, which we have been here in the Croatian Parliament for days and months not to discuss any law that could be part of that mosaic that you are talking about. And I also agree with you that sometimes it may be cheaper for the community to abolish the workplace than to preserve a non-profit job that will eventually be shut down very quickly anyway, therefore. But in order for us to determine what a truly profitable job is, what a job should be preserved, to have a strategy, to think about what and what we in the Republic of Croatia have to do, to encourage, to protect and to provide for such subsidies, or to support. All morning, already on several occasions, Mr. Minister has paid us our respects here at the club, which is why we are not suggesting anything concrete. Well, here, I would specifically suggest to Mr. Minister the proposal which the SDP Club in 2009 proposed to us, then the HDZ Government, in the debate on this same law, is that instead of such a procedure and such a law, a lump sum is established per employee to each employer who shortens the week's work in 4 or 8 hours. If he reduces 4 hours, he is paid 60 euros in a flat-rate manner, if he reduces 8 euros at a rate of 120 euros. Mr. Minister, if this was a serious SDP proposal at the time, so in 2009, why are you now in power, when you're not the promoters, then you're going with one of the not-sufficient 2009 proposals? Here, a concrete proposal is what you have suggested, instead of such a complicated law, that the pausals are simply determined by the employer, by each employee, it was proposed on behalf of the club Mr Vidovic, when he referred to the law proposed by the HDZ government. If that's when you said it was a good suggestion, why didn't you suggest it now?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79876	Time. You have abused part of the replica, but I respect it. That's my colleague Coleman's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79877	Thank you, dear Vice President. My colleague Bačić, I agree with you in that finding that it is better to occasionally abolish non-profit jobs than to..., but I did not say that, yes, I said vice versa, I said that very often the cost of subsidising a job that temporarily went into a crisis less than to allow that job to be lost, that was what I said. Although I agree with what you said, and these are two different cases, both of these situations are possible. This part of the SDP, of course, I won't comment, but as far as it's concerned in principle whether it's a stone in a mosaic or it's just a stone without mosaics, it's, of course, one debate we're having here in general, so it's a question of our relationship between the ruling parties and the opposition. It seems, of course, to me from my perspective that a whole series of measures from various ministries, especially from the ministry that is presented here today when we are talking about this law, is going to go right to, of course, reducing job losses first, stopping job losses, and then slowly starting new employment and opening new jobs, so that's, of course, the question of our perspective, and it's up to me to say what I said, it's up to you to say what you said, so maybe we shouldn't go any further into that part of the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79878	Thank you. Next replica, Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79879	Thank you. Well, colleague Coleman, I would agree with you that this measure is one stone in the mosaic, but unfortunately, the image of that mosaic shows nothing. It is completely abstract, in total looking at this mosaic has no picture and it may actually be a problem of a total economic policy and regardless of whether we are in power or in opposition, an assessment or an assessment of the impact of economic policy, I do not think it can be anything significantly different because that assessment comes beyond the Republic of Croatia from all those institutions that are monitoring and credit ratings and the functioning of the Croatian economy and everything else. I would agree with you that several relatively logical measures have come from this ministry, and this is one of the relatively logical measures, but there is no shift in economic policy, or stagnation. On the other hand, what is the problem with this measure and a series of other measures? The problem is the lack of money. We can say that 5 million is enough, but we also get data from a series of employment agencies that a good part of the measures since the end of last year stands, they stand, they are brought, but they stand because money measures. So, we can take the measures we want, the question is whether we have provided enough money for these measures to go and, of course, all these measures will not be enough if the other ministries, and I would specifically refer to the Ministry of Economy and a little entrepreneurship which, in fact, in the last year, several hundred million kuna actually did not use for subsidies. So, they spent on administrative costs, and only for subsidy measures and programmes remained at the end of the year. That's also how these ministries worked.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79880	Thank you. That's my colleague Coleman's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79881	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Of course, the analysis of economic data is no matter what the figures are based on and the percentages are far from being uniform and shallow and not having many dimensions. And, of course, you can argue on the one hand that the economic indicators of the Republic of Croatia are bad and that this is all expensive tragic and catastrophic that from one perspective it may look like that, but then we can also say that a huge amount of effort has been made that shows more and more success in one further phase in which this government has taken over the Republic of Croatia as a first stop and brings some order and some measure that could then possibly move further into what you are talking about GDP growth, employment growth, reducing unemployment, etc., etc. So it seems to me, of course, from our perspective from my perspective that what has been done in 2.5 years is that both slowly and some economic indicators are beginning to show that this rapid free fall has stopped or is about to stop and that we can only then find ourselves in a situation to turn to the other part of which you are talking about growth and recovery. It's not even the first time at the end of the situation in the Republic of Croatia. A similar situation was in the Government in 2000 to 2003, which is... The Republic of Croatia took over in a rather derutical state in that sense and then, of course, it takes some time for things to turn around and move in the direction you want and which, of course, we all want, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79882	Thank you. And the last replica of Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79883	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Coleman, you so passionately said that at one point, I almost clapped like that. The only thing that made me feel like you were more of an opposition than you were in line. So you as a member of the ruling coalition should not say that you hope that the measures will be implemented, that you hope that the measures will be available to those who need them. I believe that you believe that they will be spent. But what I would say here in addressing the problem, so today we're discussing a law that's probably going to help something a little bit, but it's not going to solve what everyone's saying. Job problems must be solved by other ministries. We have a situation that the ministry that determines tax policy goes forward and taxes and takes over everything to entrepreneurs. After it finally comes the Ministry of Economy, crafts and the Ministry of crafts and small entrepreneurship or as it is already called I don't know, there are many in Croatia, so it's all hard and counting, so behind it they don't do anything and then the Ministry of Labour comes and then tries to take care of something. So you as a member of the party from whose ranks is the Minister of Economy, in principle, I hope that you will also talk this passionately about preserving jobs and at your club meetings at discussions on where you probably point both to problems and to your economy minister and those who participate in this needing a stronger, more aggressive performance to preserve jobs and to open new jobs. So this isn't a criticism this is just pure thinking of me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79884	Thank you. That's my colleague Coleman's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79885	Thank you, dear Vice President. I don't have an objection to your replica in that sense, but I usually speak passionately first, it's more a matter of personal style than political belonging, and it's not even a question of the subject I'm talking about. But what you're right about is what I'm saying is I really hope these measures come to life. In the context that I should say that they will come to life I said the other part to appeal and that we will all keep an eye on that if we find them not alive and don't function that with quick moves and quick cuts we influence them to function because one of the experiences that we have changed this law is precisely this previous experience with those measures that have not unfortunately received the results that we would like or that we would all wish for in the best interest when these laws and those measures were in various stages. And I'm glad that we agree that this law can help a little bit, about what you said that he won't, I didn't even get the impression that the ambition of this law is that he solves the problem of unemployment completely and expects this law to solve the problem of unemployment. But what this law in its limited space of life wants, and I believe that it will do is exactly what you said, that it will help and help solve this problem, so this law and its implementation by keeping some jobs that could or should have been preserved really safe instead of being ruined because of maybe the need to restructure businesses or several months of crisis that can then be overcome by these measures. So we agree anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79886	Thank you. And Tomislav Klaric, on the suggestion of fellow Sumrak, I appreciated but I didn't see the tile.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79887	I'll be brief. I'm glad you've agreed with me that this bill is a small patch on a massive wound. And you said the same thing that I said about really small and small funds. Now the question arises that deeper thinking about this law, how much bigger would that patch be to limit itself to just certain types of activity. Here some shopping mall can practically receive this kind of help in some way or some kind of non-productive activity. If only the production activities here were financed in this way much more aid would be, and I'm not talking about the part where the company finds itself in some kind of difficulty like what the minister said, the company that was currently out of business so it helped her do a certain period of work. How much more help would it be if, under this new VAT law, the company during such difficulties in its work freed the payments of VAT immediately after charge. So here we have a lot of room to consider this whole procedure. But the bottom line is that this remains a small patch until we solve the entire mosaic within our economy because the only production, only new investment, can only generate new jobs. This is all in this way that we're bringing, everything we're discussing is just going to continue to be a patch on the wound that will continue to bleed and cause bigger and bigger problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79888	Thank you. That's my colleague Coleman's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79889	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I mean, it's not disputed that it's a patch, I'm just what I said was that you shouldn't complain about the patch because it's a patch. It seems to me that this law is one, let's continue that metaphor one patch that acts tightly, acts like it won't be removed from the wound by the first water and that in the part for which it is intended it seems to have and that it has the potential to have effect. As for the money, I didn't say it was too little money, I said that if there was a need to hope that there would be opportunities to increase those funds in the next budgets, I guess that's how it will be. As for activities that may be included, the directive, but probably the minister will do more about it, but the directive that is introduced by this bill in our legislation very clearly provides for what activities these types of aid are possible in. And I don't think malls and shopping chains fall into that category. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79890	Thank you. Minister Mrsic answered the word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79891	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's the esteemed MP Coleman already said what I was thinking and that means that release of VAT is a direct support and it's forbidden by the European Union directive. So let's not throw away things I can't go through. Therefore, all that goes to the employer in order to facilitate the business of the employer is direct support which is then unlawful under the directive. Therefore, these support are small-value support and they go directly to the worker in the pocket, so this is paying the net salary to the worker in his pocket. So it's not, it's not going into the support system and it can be used under the directive. Clearly, shopping centres and everyone else can't use it, they're mostly using this in the experience we've had since last year. The companies that work on the business, so the processing industry, the textile industry, the food industry, so those who come to the pace of production at the moment when they finish one job, the other will be two or three months from now. In that period, then what I can do is fire workers at the employment office in those two or three months, these workers may find somewhere else to work in another company and they remain without quality workers who then can't continue. That's the purpose of this law to be absolutely clear, I hope that was clear enough. As for the number itself, the number of unemployed so let's compare last year, the 4th month last year, and this month last year there were 332 thousand 249 unemployed, this year there were 329 727 of this trend we see already in the last two months, the trend is the same in the fifth month. Whether it will be a lasting trend in reducing the number of unemployed will still be seen but in any case it can also be seen that we have an increased number of jobs in the processing industry and in construction. Is it something that says that the economy is waking up or not, we will see, we should also follow the trend but quite sure that as far as employment is concerned, employment in Croatia has started.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79892	Thank you. We have one replica, Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79893	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, whatever you're saying about the trends is that both in 2012 and 2013 at the time of the highest employment, that's the end of 8 months means season, the full season had 20 to 25 thousand more unemployed. It's a fact and it's going to be like that and this year maybe another five to ten thousand more. So when we hire everyone in the season, we go back to 380 thousand in season jobs at the 9th month. But I do find something else in this law that you're saying is perfect and very interesting. How will you control, for example, the support of small value, in view of the infringement provisions of paragraphs 19 to 1 to 4 of Article 19? So you offer the entrepreneur everything to take advantage of it and then you go into control of the spending of that support. I hope you read what it says there. Is there a trained officer who can determine this on the spot? Are you sure? Here I personally believe that this is an impossible mission and you can explain to me however you want to know the work of civil servants that it is possible to control but also the experiences of entrepreneurs. Here, so you explain to me how they're going to use this. To control whether the support is given exactly as you wrote it in the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79894	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79895	Dear Representative Boris, as so far, therefore, but you are forgetting that this measure is in active employment policy measures. That last year, we did the same thing in nine employers. So people who do control are capable of doing that control. On the other hand, it is also evident that all the requirements proposed by the Bureau are not all approved. So, people exist, people work in the area for a long time. Therefore, it will be absolutely respected and controlled. As far as financial documents are concerned, they are very clear, the debtor is also one of the instruments of payment. Therefore, do not doubt those who have done so so far, they have done years before and will continue to work until now.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79896	Thank you. Next up for debate on behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79897	Dear Vice President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have heard a lot of this, but even more is worrying about what we see in the field, what we see from the results of the Government of Croatia and by looking at what is happening, we can say that this measure will not help much, but every measure, even if it is small, even if it gives some psychological effect to people who are crying and waiting for work. But looking at the Republic of Croatia, looking at the decline of GDP, we are among the 10 worst economies and Prime Minister Milanovic has told us, and when we get out of the crisis, we will not live better, when we see that the huge number of unemployed, although in the last 12 years, the biggest unemployment in the Republic of Croatia, looking at the trends, but also looking at the responsibility of the Republic of Croatia, looking at the debt in GDP, seeing that in a short time we lost 5,000 craftsmen, seeing that our credit rating is garbage, and especially in the area where I come from, and this is Slavonia and Baranja even after these floods, but also after this government, the average unemployment rate is over 30% in Slavonia and Baranja. It is not the same to hire a man in Zagreb or in a small place in Slavonia and Baranja. We are currently moving people from the village, but more and more people are moving out of the cities. And looking at these measures, looking at the results of the past years but also what I just said in the replica, that there are a lot of measures and they say there are 8 packages, 122 measures, and only a few of them are used. Even when comparing indicators, then we can say support that employment, self-employment and professional training may be the ones most used and at this point there are 32277 people involved in these measures, but in 2014, we only have 3984 new people involved. Also, by talking to people working at the Employment Office, then we can say that a good part of last year's measures, I am now talking about not only public works but opportunities for young people, co-financing, employment of people over 50 years old, shared jobs, young people learning for work, and other measures have no funds. Today, when it is said that 5 million kunas will be set aside for these measures, and when we see that Croatia was in charge of a new 10 billion kunas a few days ago, which will end up in some consumption, not in creating new jobs, then we express skepticism and concern. And the title of the Bill of Support for Jobs and when we see that we have lost 70,000 jobs in a short time, and the minister estimates that we will save around 2000, then the ratio is not good. But any job opening or saving is very important, and it is also important to train workers. But we often see in the field that employers should be trained. But we see how many companies have failed in the past years, companies that are either privatised, companies that have lost market, and the resolution ministries have not worked on neither aid for competitiveness nor for exports, nor for all those measures that mean strengthening the Croatian economy. We were unprepared to welcome the European Union, just as the resolution minister welcomed the unprepared rebalancing and I am sure that by the end of the year we will not have enough funding for these support, but I would like to hear from the minister who expects us to get from the European Union precisely for this purpose and in what amount by the end of the year. Looking at that we do not have results, seeing that at the time of the recession our economy is not stabilised, looking at the measures we have on the ground, which are being passed on by ad hoc, as my predecessors said that tax solutions or tax repression are being brought over the knee and normally that foreign investors do not know what taxes will be in a few months, as well as public works measures to finance local or regional administrations with 50%, and we know that almost none of the 556 units of local or regional administrations have foreseen these funds in their budgets, then we can say that such measures are being taken before the adoption of the budget and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but also the local or regional administration, so that they could be partners on such projects. We see here that when we talk about public works, we have no effect on the ground. What's good was that it was a quick decision after these floods that we have in Slavonia and Baranja, and I hope these people who don't work that will quickly start work because Slavonia and Baranja need immediate recovery, especially in this part that is flooded, which is really awesome and horrible. But by compatriating these days, the ministers say that the damage is about 500 million, and that the state has owed 10 billion these days, and we can't see the effects, but the effects will come in the coming months. Croatia will no longer be in debt. But we won't be able to use measures. Therefore, it is also urgent to work on European projects, but also to coordinate with the European Union, and not to cut funds for these support into rebalancing and not to coordinate that we will receive funds from the European Union. Consumer pessimism has affected Croatia, and our citizens are certain to go to a cheaper purchase of Croatian products in Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this is certainly reflected in our production, consumption of domestic products, but also in view of what will happen in Slavonia and Baranja especially on PPDS since 1.1.2015, we expect even less consumption, even less income and even worse life in Slavonia and Baranja. That's what this government is offering us. Looking at the measure of 1600 kuna, you yourself said that a large number of people are there, but also by talking to these people, it's just frustration, because people don't see their perspective and a chance after a certain year. The needs and measures therefore need to be adapted to the market, to adapt to the needs and to what they feel on the labour market. Months of waiting or years of waiting won't help new employment, it won't help our entrepreneurs be braver, it won't help us conquer some foreign markets, especially the European market. Therefore, measures must be taken on the basis of a strategy, a multi-minister strategy, and not just one individual. The funds will be missing by the end of the year and with this measure we will help a little, but not enough, not enough for 330135 unemployed people today at the Employment Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79898	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU, Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79899	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. We have before us a proposal for a law on support for the preservation of jobs in the first reading. I would honestly be happier if it were an emergency procedure unlike some other laws and that as soon as possible before this law, that as soon as possible before this law enters force. But before I start talking about this law, I would like to say something about the former Law on Support for the Conservation of Jobs from 2009 and 2010, which tried to limit the negative effects of the global economic crisis on the world of work in the Republic of Croatia, and to arrange, tried to regulate the conditions, heights and ways of achieving support for the preservation of jobs by cutting down full-time jobs. Only those employers could use this to save jobs to shorten full-time and, as full-time, set average working hours for up to 32 hours a week. He could use support in terms of wage difference and contribution to workers' salaries before cutting hours and after cutting hours, and up to 20% of the total salary and contribution from and on the salary of workers prior to the reduction of working hours. However, it failed, employers were not interested in strict and unrealistic legal conditions and complex, I could also say complicated procedures because they had to meet the following conditions. In 2007, they were not allowed to deal with the loss, in the second half of 2008 or the previous half of 2009 if they had had lost in a business that did not occur until 31 July 2008, that they had developed a programme to preserve jobs, reduce working time and for which they had the consent of a working council, a union commissioner who, under a special regulation, has all the rights and obligations of the Labour Council, the Croatian Employment Office. If there is no working council or union commissioner in his role. And yet another difficult circumstance prior to the application for the granting of support if they did not, or had to, have, or should not have had outstanding obligations on the basis of taxes and contributions under a special regulation, i.e. they had no solution from the authority of the state administration responsible for the determination, supervision and collection of public charges on the basis of taxes and contributions to specific regulations. And the employer's support could have been used for a short period of time for a maximum period of 3 months. The law was limited in time and was valid until 31 December 2010. So now we've had a three-year hole practically, and now we have before us a bill on support for job conservation and we have in some way based on what I've said enough reasons to pass a new aid law to preserve early jobs because this has been an argument so far why we haven't succeeded. What should be said immediately at first for this bill which is before us that it is brilliantly equipped with statistical data as a rare law, and I must rarely praise it when I praise it from this pay phone, but I must commend the Resolute Ministry of Great Equipment of this Law and anyone who wants to read it has one very interesting amount of information, evidence, arguments that can be used to support this law. This proposed law regulates support through the Institute of Labour Reduction up to 40% and 16 hours a week, respectively, in order to preserve jobs in periods of reduced business activity, i.e. workers should not be fired. The support shall be determined as a proportion of the wage for the number of working hours for which the worker is deprived of working hours and up to the minimum wage. Since the largest number of persons who have entered work-related unemployment remained in activity, for example, the processing industry that has low wage levels, these workers will not have any significant pay gaps before and after work-time cuts. It is worth pointing out that the support goes to the worker, therefore in the form of wages to the worker, not to support the employer with whom he can do whatever he wants. In the debate so far, it has been said that it should be controlled, but I think today such a system of control has been set up in the bodies, in the state bodies, that it is well known which kuna who received it per person that it is much more known than how much the lender has blacked out. In any case, I think that there is already a very solid level of control and that we should not be afraid of it directly to the worker at all. The second aid governed by this law is support for the education and training of workers to be granted to the employer for a period during which the worker does not work for legitimate reasons, and is determined at the level of the financial assistance paid to the unemployed person by the Croatian Employment Service. So, during education, the worker makes his contracted salary, but part of them in the amount of financial assistance as well as the resulting travel expenses related to education is paid by the Croatian Employment Service. The employer's support may be used for a period of short working hours of up to 12 months for a period of three years. Therefore, interruptions are possible and continued use of support is much more flexible than ever before. I've heard in various debates that perhaps they should be even more liberal in the job rescue function. I think the laws must generally be very precise, give good frames and space for possible manipulation to reduce to the least possible measure. It's my goal of every law, not to be a priori or liberal or conservative. So they have to edit a certain legal space as accurately as possible. The HSU Club supports the adoption of this law and shares its opinion on the Committee on Labour, Pension System and Social Partnership, which concerns the regulation of the simplest rules for the use of support to employers in order to motivate the employer to benefit from support because the original law did not incentivise the interests of the employer amongst themselves and because of complicated procedures. Finally, as the name of the law itself speaks the proposal of the Law on Support for Job Conservation, this bill is of social character. The effects of this law will certainly not in itself lead to the economic recovery of our working world and a better standard, but will certainly not be able to do away with it because the aim of this law's proposal is to preserve jobs during the temporary business difficulties of the employer. So what people say when it's hard and a little help than a lot of power. We just mustn't get carried away by the illusions that this law solves all our problems because it's simply not true. The figures of the Croatian Employment Service are inexorable where 330 135 unemployed are currently located. Therefore, each preserved job as well as a successfully restructured company contributes to the social security of workers, as well as in some way to the social stability of the entire society. Once again, HSU will support the adoption of this law and we regret that this law did not go by emergency procedure because it is necessary for the Croatian work world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79900	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate individually. Branko Vuksic, he's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79901	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honored ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Well, unfortunately, I must conclude that I was disappointed by the absence of representatives of the largest opposition party when we talk about a law that is very relevant to Croatian society, for Croatian workers and for the Croatian economy in general. It's on their soul, but I hope it's not because they're not interested in these topics. In fact, the speakers mentioned before me that unfortunately in the Republic of Croatia we are recording a long trend of negative developments in the labour market. Unfortunately, it hasn't been since recently, it's been over a number of years such trends have been present for a number of reasons. Above all, the global economic crisis, which was naturally reflected in Croatia. And unfortunately, in these trends Croatia is not lonely in Europe and beyond, so these trends are quite important to exist in other European countries that have tried in a different way to reach this problem. As the speaker before me also mentioned the Croatian government and the previous one, and this one saw this problem and tried to reach out to the problem, i.e. to help preserve jobs. For the first time in 2009, 2010 and then afterwards. However, these measures were primarily meant to have a limited duration and did not get the expected result because of the complexity and restrictive rules in the use of support that were also complicated for many entrepreneurs to benefit but many did not meet the conditions. The previous speaker said something more, so I don’t think of keeping it special. When adopting new laws, it is therefore imperative to lay down a simpler way for entrepreneurs to benefit from these support. First of all, it is a way that they can quickly and efficiently apply for the same and thus save the workplace and facilitate their business. I'm glad I can find out that in my opinion this law is just that. Therefore, the support provided for by the law is granted, meaning for the preservation of jobs, granted to employers as support for small values for workers, as a type of support or a reduction of full-time, or support for education and training of workers. We had another law that applied exclusively to professional training of workers, which means that employers should be honored, but this is also one of the ways for workers to be requalified, retrained for jobs, new jobs that occur on the labour market and for which the need arises, and for which they may not have the necessary qualifications. As regards the expected results, the adoption of this law should, during the hope of very short temporary difficulties in business, motivate the employer's business activities to use support to preserve jobs instead of using the ultimate measure, which is to reduce the number of employees, or instead of resigning. So, all I'm talking about is the award process, it should be simplified as much as possible, because it will get social effects and because at this point, Croatian society needs these effects. It is also necessary to consider prescribing sanctions for employers who violate the provisions of Article 11, so Article 11 clearly specifies that, which employers who use the support provided for in Articles 6 and 7 of this Act must do during the period of application. However, if they do not work, sanctions are not clearly defined and I think it would be wise to do so in a second reading. And all of course for the purpose of reducing manipulation. That's why I think it's good that we're going to have it in two readings, that we're going to be able to hone this text, so that we can clearly prescribe the provisions of granting support and minimise manipulation. Finally, I can say that this law, therefore it has an exceptional social measure, a dimension that is obvious and necessary at the moment in Croatian society, is definitely not going to save the economy but I believe that if we save one job, I think it was worth bringing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79902	Thank you, too. Boris Blazekovic. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Branko Bacic. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Boro Grubisic. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Josip Boric. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Goran Maric. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. This is what we've exhausted the list of people reported. Minister, here's your finals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79903	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, we will very quickly base the debate on the government to make a final draft of the law so that this observation that the law in two readings, that it will last for months. I hope it will be very brief and that by the end of this summer's session we will adopt a final draft of the law so that I hope that we will also make that observation that the law should be adopted as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79904	I thank the ministers. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79905	Proposal for a law on support for job conservation, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 666. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A proposal for a law on support for the preservation of jobs is adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Who's in favor of this conclusion? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I note that the proposed conclusion has been accepted with a majority of 80 votes and 26 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79906	We continue with: - Final proposal Law amending and supplementing the law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No.665. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. And amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. Minister Miranda Mrsic is also with us. The Prime Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79907	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I, unlike this previous bill here, will be relatively short. On the basis of the conclusions of the coordination for the foreign and European policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Labour and Pension System has taken over the role of the Coordinator for the implementation of the obligations under the European Union Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications in order to implement that directive in the Croatian legislation, the Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications was adopted, so the law was passed at the time of the Government at which HDZ was headed. Therefore, changes were made in 2009 and 2011. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications provides for the possibility of making a previous declaration of the intention to provide services in the host Member State if the service provider moves from one Member State to another to provide services. The declaration is a form of notification to the competent authorities of the host State that the service provider will provide its services on its territory and that it is in writing prior to the first provision of services. Declarations may be attached to certain documents, e.g. the proof of nationality, evidence of professional qualifications as well as a certificate confirming that its holder is legally established in the Member State for the purpose of carrying out the activities concerned and that at the time of issue of the certificate, there is not even a temporary ban on the performance of the profession. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Directive has been transposed into Croatian legislation in Article 6. Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications. This provision prescribed the right of the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia as host countries to request prior notification of the intention to provide services on the territory of the Republic of Croatia from foreign service providers. But it is likely that the failure of the legislator of the law or the lack of understanding of the matter itself by any existing regulation of the Republic of Croatia is not prescribed by the possibility or obligation of the competent authority in the Republic of Croatia to issue this certificate to a Croatian citizen who wishes to provide his services in another country Contracting Parties to the Treaty on European Economic Area. So when the law was passed in the Croatian Parliament in 2009 and 2011, it was likely that no one from Croatia would go to other countries to provide services. Therefore, after the lack of logic and legal voids observed, we have decided to correct this illogicality as soon as possible, so that we allow these changes to enable our citizens who are leaving to provide services to other EU member states to have a credible correction to prove their interest. For example, doctors who go to work in other countries, so to provide services in other countries, companies going to provide services in other countries should be given the possibility to issue such certificates by the Croatian Medical Chamber. On the basis of the provisions of the cooperation law with the Minister responsible for Education and Science, we will adopt a Regulation on the issue of an EU certificate laying down the content, the appearance of the form and the establishment of a list of competent authorities for the issue of European certificates. Each Member State decides independently on the appearance of its EU certificate, i.e. no EU-level forms are prescribed. The EU certificate to be issued by the competent authorities at the request of citizens will contain other than basic information on the service provider and two elements, information on the registration of a legal, or natural person in the relevant register in the Republic of Croatia, and information that the service provider has no ban on performing a profession and that it can freely provide services in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The Regulation will elaborate on all details of the issue of the EU certificate, and the component of the Regulation will make up 3 EU certificates for legal persons, for natural persons and for craftsmen. The Republic of Croatia has the obligation to issue such certificates since its accession to the EU, and in particular because it is increasingly required to issue them, but this cannot be made possible without an adequate legal basis. Therefore, the urgent adoption of amendments and the addition of the Law on regulated professions is in the interest of Croatian citizens who want to exercise their right to work on EU territory. The Ministry of Labour and the Pension System shall, in accordance with Article 65 of the Law, act as national coordinator in the performance of the obligations arising from the law. The Minister of Labour's decision appointed a civil servant to the Ministry who directly monitors and implements the obligations under the law and the directive. The National Coordinator shall collect all information relevant for the application of the law in regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications such as information... to a regulated profession, care for the uniform application of rules relating to the recognition of foreign professional qualifications, representing the Republic of Croatia in the EU coordination group. The established commission for the regulation of the profession is also composed of representatives of the competent authorities, state administrations and several working groups working directly on the implementation of the regulated profession system in Croatia. Through joint work and cooperation, concrete requirements and citizen enquiries are addressed. These amendments will allow the law to be applied on a full basis and allow citizens of the Republic of Croatia who wish to exercise their right to work on EU territory to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79908	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Željko Reiner. There isn't. The club loses its word. On behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, Dragan Montenegrin. He's gone. The club loses its right to debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Marija Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79909	Dear Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Although many are more important than what is happening outside this hall, I think our job here is to discuss the laws and actually bring about solutions that really affect the lives of certain people, this is specifically about a law that fills a small gap, which will have a significant impact on all those Croatian citizens and citizens who are from regulated professions, therefore these regulated professions, who want to work somewhere outside the Republic of Croatia, or within the European space. Of course, the club supports this law. In fact, this law is a correction to a likely non-intentional failure from 2009 when we passed the law and in 2011 when the law was changed, which actually regulates the minimum conditions of training in Croatia for the access and occupation of professions of medical specialists, dental medical primates, dental medical specialists, MA, veterinarians, architects, and recognition of foreign professional qualifications for performing regulated professions in the Republic of Croatia. The Minister has initially explained what this is about, we have read it ourselves, I do not think that it should be repeated in terms of detail, but I think it is important to say that the adoption of this law will take place, the adoption of a new law that will be passed soon because of the new directive, should be made possible by now, or by the competent authorities in the Republic of Croatia and by those formulations of the competent authority,... actually, the professional chambers to issue certificates to our citizens which determine that he or she may be engaged in certain activities, i.e. to have licences and other necessary documents, i.e. that they do not have a ban on dealing with certain interests, i.e. certain activities. Thus, both in practice and by the Republic of Croatia, it will allow our citizens to provide their services in another country Contracting Parties to the European Economic Area. It is one of the important things of the EU itself, and to put it this way, the practical consequences of the EU, the common market and labour mobility. This was a prerequisite for achieving that goal, that is, or the consequences. One part was the preconditions for education, and the other were from access to the labour market. As education is nationally regulated and there is no European regulation, regulation at EU level, then it has taken place to develop several mechanisms, one of them is the recognition of foreign educational qualifications. I think again and again and here it is important to stress that since 2003 in the Republic of Croatia there is no... diploma, it is something that causes a lot of real opposition, when we talk about this topic, it is already only about the recognition of foreign educational qualifications, or period of education, it is something we call a formal recognition. It shall be established in a certain procedure whether an institution which has issued an foreign diploma is accredited, whether it has an accredited programme and whether it has issued a specific diploma or a certificate to a particular person. They don't compare education programs, so everything that we have in our consciousness somewhere has been done with foreign diplomats and what we've called... it's no longer being implemented. This then had a lot of consequences for self-employment, that is, the point of entry into the labour market and that point, in fact, education and the labour market that were once in one, were separated. And we actually need to distinguish these two processes here, one is the formal recognition of foreign diploma, and the other is the definition of the conditions of entry into the labour market. This means not only in the legal sense of law in procedures but also in changing ways of thinking in many where there are still a lot of problems something about it even writes in a report to this year's attorney general. So it's still, even though it's been going on for more than 10 years, it's not a large number of people sitting down and how this procedure should work. When we talk about prescribing the conditions for entering the labour market, it means that recognition of a diploma and diploma automatically with the exception of regulated professions because... and directives regulated and content is not automatically entering the labour market. Here we have a special problem with qualifications both in regulated and unregulated professions acquired in third countries, therefore to non-EU members. In BiH and in these medical professions, but also in non-medical professions, we also feel that there will be additional efforts to further discuss with the chambers, but also with employers' associations, it may be explained once again that the point of recognition of the foreign diploma and the point of entry into the labour market has separated and that defining the entry into the labour market is not the job of the educational system, but this part of the work to make it simple and that it is also necessary to adapt the chamber regulations and some other regulations. Here and finally we really support this law, the correction of just one mistake. We expect almost a new law that would implement the new directive. But it seems to me that, in this part of the non-legislative but practical part, certain additional efforts should be made and from the part to say the decirculation of this ministry, as well as the Ministry of Education, together with all the professional chambers, that this principle of entry into the labour market is a little bit clarified, particularly with regard to third countries and regulated professions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79910	Thank you. This is what we've exhausted the list of people reported. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later. Since the next item with HBOR representatives was agreed at 15.00 hours after the break, I am now establishing a break and continuing at 15.00 hours. It's 12.28 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79911	Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E.658. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community. I would like to ask the Committee on Legislatives, Amendment No 1. to Article 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79912	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79913	He became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79914	It's also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79915	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number three of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79916	It's also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79917	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. We're going to the Amendments of the Club of Representatives, actually the amendment of only one, the club of representatives of the HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79918	The amendment shall apply to Article 75(3). The amendment is not accepted by the Government because the amendments and additions to this law are proposed for the urgency of regulation of the legal gap that occurred after the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, which concerns the European Union's isolation, confirm to Croatian citizens who wish to provide their services on the territory of the European Union State, i.e. the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation. As regards the provision of the 2009 law which provides for the procedures for the granting of the authorisation to carry out the regulated professions started before the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, the same shall be completed in accordance with the rules on the basis of which they are to be initiated. We note that it is a transitional and final provision which was relevant for the period until the EU accession, and we do not see a reasonable reason for amending it. It should also be pointed out that it is also a matter of harmonising with the amendments to Directive 2005/36 on professional qualifications to the development of a new Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications during this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79919	Thank you very much. The explanation was given by the respected Deputy Minister of Labour and Pensions System, Bozidar Stubelj. On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, honourable representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79920	Thank you, Mr. President. For the purposes of this amendment, the nature of this amendment was, in fact, agreeing with paragraph 3 of paragraph 1 of the same article which had to be harmonised in order to... colitision. Paragraph 1 states that the recognition of foreign educational qualifications initiated before the accession of the EU Republic of Croatia is completed by the sub-region of this law, and the current paragraph 3 is prescribed... the issue of problems before the accession of the EU Republic is completed by specific regulations on the basis of which they begin, means rules which are de facto no longer in force. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Since the education system in the Republic of Croatia is in line with EU education and at the level of knowledge acquired outside the countries of the European and Economic Area, we believe that it cannot be automatically... acquired by the completion of the Croatian Education Programme as it would be contrary to the applicable regulations that are also cited here and also by Directive 2005/36/EC. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79921	Please state the amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives to the Croatian Parliament that the government has not accepted. Who's in? Thank you. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 84 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 3 abstentions are passed by P.Z.E. No. 658, in the text proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] We continue to work in the plenary session on the established agenda. It is the turn - The Annual Financial Report of the HBOR for 2013 The Reporter is the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, based on Article 22. Law on the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. You've received the material. The government of the Republic of Croatia delivered its opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the report at the session. Does the applicant wish to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Anton Kovachev, president of the HBOR administration. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79923	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. Here, I will try as usual very briefly to report the annual financial reports for 2013. First of all, I would like to point out that this report has been confirmed by the HBOR Audit Committee, then the HBOR Supervisory Board, the Independent Internationally Recognised Auditor Deloitte and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. At the end of the 2013 report, the balance sheet amount was 26 billion and 200 million kuna, which is an increase of 2% compared to the beginning of the year. The capital, i.e. our core capital, was 8 billion and 900 million kuna, which is a 10% increase from the beginning of the year because it was paid out of the budget of the total estimated 600 million kuna. Total revenues amounted to 983 million kuna, total expenditures of 794 million kuna. So the profit was 189 million, 200 thousand kuna, that's an increase of 40.7%. I also have to explain this increase because it's significant compared to the previous '12. A year. Interest expenditures were lower by 6.3% compared to the previous 2012 year due to the use of primarily favourable loans from international financial institutions, as well as the early repayment of some expensive loans and the payment of bonds of 250m euros, i.e. in the previous 2012 period. The early repayment of certain duties was also in mind, I must say correctly, so 1 billion and 900 million kuna and 110 million euros in 2013 alone. There was also a lower level of reservations compared to 2012, so in that year we had a high amount of reservations and therefore the auditors in their recommendations and said that in the following year, given the actual coverage of all non-refundable or partially chargeable claims in '12. Year, '13. We can go with significantly smaller reservations. Now I'm going to move to a net interest income of 434 million kuna and it was up by 6%, which is a reflection of the movement of interest and interest income. Therefore, the interest revenues were 955 million, slightly lower than the previous year, due to the continuation of the lower interest rate measures, so at the time of the economic crisis in the interest of the economy we gave up greater profits to achieve lower interest rates and these lower interest rates were especially for investments, i.e. investments. The expenditure on interest amounted to 521 million kuna, lower by 6% primarily due to the debt of special financial institutions at a more favourable interest rate and the early repayment of the funds of those who were more expensive, I have already stated. The capital ratio, a significant indicator for each financial institution, especially for banks, was 77.82%, the increase was 11.3% primarily due to the payment in founding capital, then 1 billion 800 million kuna in the transaction account, which is a risk weight 0 and a reduction in the foreign exchange position. If we're talking about credit activity, 1256 loans totalling 7 billion 776 million kuna are granted. Thirty-seven export bank guarantees totalling 102 million kuna and mandated transactions, the largest number of which is insurance of exports from political and commercial risks, were 291 cases of 2 billion 99,000 kuna, of which nearly 9 billion relate to export insurance against political and commercial risks. So, when we add it all together, our credit activity, the insurance of exports from political commercial risks, which is most of our mandate jobs and the issue of bank guarantees primarily for exports, the total business activity in 2013 was 9 billion 978 million and 200 thousand kuna, if seen by number, it's 1584 projects we participated in. There was a 64% increase in investment loans in '13. A year, that procedure in the previous '12. The year was 53%. I must point out that this is exactly the percentage of investment loans in our total credit activity in 2007, so the last pre-crisis year, so I hope that's a good sign for the investment cycle that I hope is ahead of us. The largest interest in loans was shown by small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, 1080 loans amounting to 3 billion and 500 million kuna were granted. Exporters are granted 4.5 billion kuna according to all credit programmes, 2 billion kunas of exports are secured. Therefore, the total support for Croatian exports in last 2013 was around 6 billion and 500 million kuna. 18 million kunas were paid, 6.5 million kunas were charged, but we are positive about this export insurance fund. So we continued in 2013 with an interest rate reduction measure, so interest rates on investments, investments in agriculture, tourism, industry and environmental protection in a broader sense. Then we also started with the Energy Reconstruction Credit Programme, and in cooperation with the Ministry of Small Entrepreneurship, we launched the Youth Entrepreneurship Programme. The implementation of the Risk Implementation Programme has been continued and this means that, in terms of higher risk takeover by the HBOR, loans directly granted in '13 have been increased. a year 44% compared to 2011 when it was only 24%. If we are talking now about the accepted requirements that are in solving around 60% of the direct lending requirements and only 40% through business banks, which is not a good indicator because as much as HBOR takes action in launching entrepreneurship special investment if we simply cannot start it ourselves if we do not participate in business banks. So, a year ago, I reported it and in the latest 2012 report, HBOR launched an initiative to set up a development investment fund. This fund should help those entrepreneurs, and a large number of them are low-capitalised and practically credit-inability and also those companies that successfully pass the pre-price settlement. Unfortunately, we did not have a participant in the domestic capital market in order to launch this development investment fund, however, the Supervisory Board made a decision in December to set up this Development Investment Fund and the Decision to invest 100 million kuna in this investment fund, we count somewhere around 10% of the funds because we are counting on at least a billion kunas the size of that fund. As for the debt, we had about 800m euros in total, most of it, 650m euros in special financial institutions for lower interest and 150m euros was provided for general purposes through private placement. Our biggest creditor was, as was the previous period, the European Investment Bank of the EIB with 500m euros, KFW IPEX 57m and the Central Bank of the Council of Europe 90m euros. Here I think I was able to show in the shortest lines how the financial reports both credit and general business of HBOR in 2013. And I thank you for your attention and here I am and my colleague Adžić are available for your questions and comments if necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79924	Thank you, Mr. Anton Kovacchev, too. Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget want to present a report to this committee? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the Club of the list of Independent Representatives in the Croatian Assembly Grubišić, Cain. They're gone. They lose the right to talk about this subject. The Social Democratic Party Club of Croatia and respected representative Igor Radinovic. Here's a colleague of Radjenović's.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79925	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Director, with Mrs. Director of the Sector, colleagues and colleagues. Here is to allow in the shortest lines and even after such an exhaustive and good introductory letter and also a comprehensive and good report which the HBOR has for years therefore submitted to this Assembly that I really say in a few sentences why the Social Democratic Party Club will also support this report for 2013. We estimate that the policy that has been implemented in recent years and that the HBOR is as directly represented as possible with its placements towards business entities and... the risks with the commercial banks gave the expected effects in 2013. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this trend of activity is good and we appreciate that it should continue for years to come, both in this and in all the years ahead. We commend that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development continued to encourage entrepreneurs for new investments in 2013 to launch new investment cycles and maintain and improve liquidity even though the share of the decline was continued and successful measures started in 2012. It's good to have new projects and new programs every year. Mr. Director spoke about the Development Investment Fund and the investment of 100 million kuna at the end of last year. It is good to encourage the financing of micro-entrepreneurs, especially beginners, together with the European Investment Fund. It is good to encourage specific target groups, beginners, women entrepreneurs, young entrepreneurs... and it is good to have HBOR kick out such projects every year. It is good to monitor Croatian exporters through all stages of the export process, and it is good to continue and international co-operation and there have been many successes and previous years with special financial institutions... as well as possible better and more favourable sources and cooperation with other investment banks and with the European Investment Bank has produced results in this field. What characterizes trends both in the past and in 2012 and 2013 it is this trend that HBOR, what is often said in this Chamber, increasingly as a state bank takes increasing risks and monitors projects for which business banks for all known reasons do not show too much interest. So directly HBOR increases from 2011 to 24%, 2012. 40%, 2013 at 40%. It's a positive trend. It is a positive trend and growth of loans approved for investment. So over the past two years, so a total of 10.4 billion, but there is a positive trend, so after the fall of 2010, actually by the peak of when we have a gross loan, 79% of credits for the need for crafts. Now that share's going down, and it's growing like I said, the share of the investment loan, so it's in '11. 42%, '12. 53, in '13. We had 64%. So these are all positive trends in this direction. In order not to be too long and given the difficult day today in every respect, this report has received unanimous support from the Audit Committee, it has received unanimous support from the HBOR Supervisory Board. The government of the Republic of Croatia had no objections to this report. The committees responsible, the Committee on Finance, the Committee on the Economy also unanimously supported this report and therefore the SDP club will accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79926	Thank you, Your Honor, and the club, too. It is up to the HDSSB club and respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79927	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Director of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development or how they like to say HBOR, with associate Mrs. Adzic, if I have heard correctly. The HDSB Club will accept the HBOR's 2013 report because it is already standardly written in comprehensible style, with clearly presented data and any explanations that are provided here I will not comment on what Mr. Director has already said in relation to business, it is positive. We see that 1256 loans were granted in 2013, 7 billion and 776 million kuna. Winning and everything else is positive, so we really don't have the words to object to the report itself. What I'm saying is that the HBOR in its business and so far and at a time when it was the second Government of another political omen is somehow, and we see today, according to the former finance minister's statements, and according to the knowledge that I have previously been in some way, I might be too harsh to say the ATM of the ruling, which is that the very composition of the HBOR Supervisory Board, the 10-member Supervisory Board in which seven ministers, three parliamentary deputies, as it says here, was actually one extended hand of politics, and mostly ruling policies. So here we see from today's interview, or a press conference that was requested and also yesterday's... HBOR's loans for a car wash owned or related relations with the Prime Minister, and then for the production of small biscuits, and then before I talk about certain companies even in Slavonski Brod or in Slavonia which also received HBOR loans, and thanks to the fact that the political establishment was as it is today. Actually, I'd say I'm not going to say guilty, but actually that way and that HBOR relationship to the loan seekers. I'm not saying that this has always caused negative consequences because, as we see from the report, certain loans have been returning neatly and HBOR's only business is positive. But it does, for example. Someone asking for 300,000 kuna credits, and to expand a private nursing home, therefore privately owned and to get equipment for a nursing home, and to walk from the cold to the untraceable and there is no help if it is not party-colored, while at the same time some of the other jokes get not known at the Pleternica or Požeg 6 million kuna, in Slavonski Brod one member of the former party who was in power of 10 million kuna, these other 20 million kunas. That's what actually hurts the citizens. It is not Mr. Management President's fault, excused director and assistant, but it is only the setting up and assembly of the Supervisory Board according to the political key, according to the political decision, in fact, the one who determines, decides, and here according to the report itself, that it is precisely written in the Supervisory Board as I have already said 10 members, 6 Ministers of the Government of the Republic, 3 MPs, and the President of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. It's new now, but here's the old one. This is what we would like if I were to say even more healthy projects, a healthy investment independent of politics financed by the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development in order for the entire society, rather than party elites, to have certain benefits and to be assisted by entities, legal entities, companies that are in some way or related to family ties or are linked to political ties with ruling elites that are now in power or former ones. That's ours, that's what I think last time the HBOR report said. These days, the Supervisory Board is considering following the plan of Đura Djakovic, which is a company of strategic interest for the Republic of Croatia, one of the 60 there are, 65 of which is of strategic interest to the Republic, which has 1200 employees, who is the bearer of the mesatriot industry in the Republic of Croatia and who has fallen into difficulty with around 120 million kunas of poor administration, poor work of his administration and ignorance, incompetence. Therefore, it was concluded that the FGS also concluded that one HBOR loan of 150 million kuna would be subject to strict application, so on. restructuring or change, certain changes in business brought Djuru Djakovic back to his healthy feet. However, here's the news, and Mr. Minister, I told me to say freely that he has determined and given a negative opinion. So Mr. Maras said that he gave a negative opinion on the HBOR loan to Đuro Đakovic, Slavonski Brod as the carrier, in fact, of the strategic interest of the projected industry. Let's look at Patria and look at those arranged, and the unfulfilled promises about getting a car in Đura Đakovic, the last purchase of the wagon was those 100 cars that were still agreed there at the time I think Jadranka Kosor when she was Prime Minister and that was the last delivery of the wagons, and the promises are quite different. And what I should have said was to be realised in Đura Djakovic it was 1500 cars, but it was contracted by the company that was supposed to buy HZ Cargo, so because of Georgia and its marifetluks, the Romanian one, so the purchase of 1500 wagons for Đura Djakovic fell off. I also appeal to the minister, and I told him in person two hours ago that it was not pouring into an empty council or into hollow barrels of those 150 million kunas that were needed clearly from the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development because of Djuro Djakovic himself, it is not about saving the company but there are 1200 workers, 1200 families, but also a company that is of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia. I'm talking about the production of combat vehicles, etc. BOV and tanks, and then spring vehicles, etc. But if there's no hearing like he's gone and as the minister told me it's pouring in a hollow bag, so let me tell them a billion we succeed it's all pouring in a hollow bag. Obviously, I don't know how it's going to end, even though there are positive opinions and so on. FGS and others in HBOR and some ministries. Unfortunately, here's the veto of a man in this. That's why I'm saying I'm going to accept clearly and I said for what reason the HBOR report is written neatly, it's excellent, it's transparent, it's talking about the good work of the HBOR except that here I'm not glad here by Minister Linic, the former pardon, ex-Minister Linic and some of our knowledge that came out like this, under the table let's find out who's getting HBOR credits, who's being helped, and yet some other people are praying for the sleeve and the assembly representatives, can you do anything to get some 300,000 kuna to increase the capacity of a private nursing home. And I can't win. So here we are going to accept that report of yours, and with these I'm going to say the remarks that I made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79928	Thank you too, dear colleague. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79929	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, my colleague Grubisic, I must say, either I misunderstood you or you were in one part contradictory of yourself. You counted all those who sat on the HBOR Supervisory Board, which political influences were made to make certain decisions there and you realized that there was no responsibility of the HBOR board or the chairman of the administration. I can agree with that, but don't you have the impression that it's not going with each other? If he acted on a political order then he didn't do it the way he was supposed to, then he should have said political pressure is being put on me, eventually back off, I don't know. I do not call on him to raise all the media in order to reveal how things happen, but the very fact that political pressures did do something about it, if, and I think you did it yourself, is it contradictory that he did it really according to what was expected of him or did he do exclusively by the pressure of politics? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79930	Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79931	I know what you're trying to say, but if you have a supervisory board in which he is, and I said what composition is it, if the Supervisory Board also has control over this to tell the credits what to do? Well, maybe that's how it could have been anyway, Mr. Kovac's leaving as we hear it, ending his term, and I don't think there's any need to discuss it this way right now in the end. Well, that's all the reason, isn't it?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79932	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Party of Retired Persons, there you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79933	President-in-Office of the Parliament, HBOR President, with co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. HBOR is an important institution for the economic development of the Republic of Croatia and has shown extremely good results about its work. The Croatian pensioner party supports the direction of HBOR in 2013 to stimulate entrepreneurs in order to launch a new investment cycle, strengthen entrepreneurship capacity through maintenance and liquidity improvement, and facilitate the financing of candidate projects for EU funds. It is also commendable to strengthen HBOR's advisory role. It is of paramount importance that the Development Investment Fund be set up to assist companies that successfully emerge from the pre-fashion settlement. This measure should have the priority and focus of all HBOR services on a more rapid implementation. The model of pre-fashion settlements unequivocally gives positive results that both world financial institutions have recognized and commended him unreservedly. It is important that such a successful model continues to be implemented uninterrupted and to ensure additional models that allow for even more quality and favourable results. Companies that have passed the pre-fashion settlement process have largely been completely exhausted financially. Since the pre-price settlement procedures are based on different forms of credentials, the existing credentials are often unable or unwilling to increase their exposure to these societies. The banking sector also has no hearing of exposure to such still risky companies. In order for these companies to be able to continue their business in a smooth manner, it is necessary to invest in the working capital of the perspective companies that have completed the pre-departure settlement and have a sustainable plan for further business. HBOR must be urgently involved in this process and help such undertakings in further business. Industry is at the heart of Europe, and it is necessary to seek solutions to the challenges of our society today and in the future. Europe needs industry, and the industry needs Europe, European Commission Vice-President Antonio Tajani said in 2010. The Europe 2020 strategy's main initiative is an integrated industrial policy with a growth and job creation strategy through support at a solid and diverse industrial base in Europe. Re-industrialisation is today the most widely used word in the EU. Accordingly, the HBOR must adapt to the challenges faced by the EU as a whole and to priority areas of action, if not first, to fund, encourage and revive the heavy industry that has been neglected for years. HBOR as a professional and professional institution must have the freedom and strength to rise above the contradictory and uncoordinated industrial policies currently present in Croatia and to align its areas of action with the integrated EU industrial policy and to support them with measures and instruments that have horizontally indirect, and vertical direct character. The global economic crisis has shown that countries that preserved their basic heavy industries are the best to bear the burden of the crisis. Croatia's industrial policy, however, approaches from a position that has all the characteristics of industrial policy that slows down or completely stops structural changes, while the heavy base industry is interpreted as an industrial one in the sunset. And as the main motivational factor, there is a avoidance of social problems. The HBOR must assume the role of a key factor rather than a passive industrial policy provider. The HBOR Act should be amended but in a way that further enables HBOR to operate smoothly according to professional and professional criteria. HBOR is a representative institution for the economy of the Republic of Croatia in order to limit the room of manoeuvre in any way, especially from non-professional bodies. Under which rule of financial expertise, the Government will be able to make better financial decisions on the approval of HBOR's credit than the expert credit committee can draw up from financial experts with considerable banking experience. HBOR must be as far away from political institutions as possible and its work must be based solely on the rules of knowledge, expertise and experience as this is the only way for the HBOR to continue with an exceptional quality contribution made to the economy of the Republic of Croatia. What should certainly be done is to increase the core capital of the HBOR but not to the proposed 10 billion kuna, but to a minimum of 15 billion kuna, so that the HBOR should uninterruptedly expand its scope and meet the unsustainable needs of the Croatian economy. Given the quality of work and the results that the HBOR has shown through its work, we think it would be good for the HBOR to further strengthen its advisory services. We primarily believe that consultation should be focused on the use of EU funds in priority areas of HBOR action. We are all aware of the fact that in most countries which have joined the European Union there is a worrying low percentage of the use of the EU's accession and other funds. We believe that the HBOR could contribute to greater use of EU funds through advisory services with its knowledge and experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79934	Thank you too, dear fellow MP Cvetovic. We're going to discuss club representatives next. It is next to the Croatian Democratic Community club in the Croatian Parliament and distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79935	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. President of the Board with an associate, colleagues and colleagues can imagine how this debate would have been alive today if the situation had been like this at noon on the other hand, which napkins of accusations would have gone wrong, but we at the HDZ Club simply don't want to function like that or talk, but we want to highlight some facts. And the facts are that these conflicts within the SDP and spear have broken over the back of certain state institutions over the past few months. The fact is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia gave a positive opinion on the Croatian Bank's report for Reconstruction and Development, the fact is that there were no objections. However, it is also a fact, colleagues and colleagues, that today the Government has proposed to the Supervisory Board to appoint a new member of the administration and, in fact, a new management president and a new member of the administration. Now, colleagues and colleagues, I ask myself and you a question, after all those praises on the parliamentary committees, after today's debate by my colleague Radenovic on behalf of the SDP club, so who normally changes the one who is capable and the one who wins the games? If that's the case, then the question is why? If that's not the case, who didn't have the courage to tell the reasons why management was being replaced? But it is a matter of the ruling coalition, it is a matter of government, and I would thank Mr Kovacev on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club for 20 years of work, quality work and later I will say something more about it, because Mr Kovacev is leaving and that this is his last submission of the report, which is likely to be unanimously adopted. Well, so, Mr. Kovac, thank you for your work over the past 20 years. However, my debate today was supposed to be a little different, but simply because of everything that is happening and because we are the strongest Croatian political party my debate will go a little differently. My colleagues and colleagues, every successful state respects, rests on institutions. Because if you don't respect the institutions you have, then there's nothing you can do and there's nothing you can do. Because even if you have a bad institution you have better than none, because you can fix a bad institution, you can improve and you can do something about it. And what happens to us in Croatia with everything that has brought us this economic, economic crisis is that we started out with such a jagged trust and a total depression of Croatian citizens after, as I say, we tried to throw in the mud some moral verticals and something that Croatian people believed in, from the Church through science, and also through athletes, artists, etc. And when that wasn't enough, then we went through the institutions. And now what inconsistencies there may be is the best example of this HBOR report where the government proposes it to this high house to adopt it, and at the same time there is no comment. And what's most tragic, this government is being led through that institution by some kind of internal conflict. And we can speak individually one way or another, the essence of the institution's functioning is that they stick to certain rules and if they're working by those rules, and then whether someone likes or doesn't like to change those rules, then let them say that someone does or doesn't. HBOR in the past 20 years, as the Croatian state has developed and the HBOR has changed its tasks and its jobs. However, what the HBOR is today and what the HBOR has been led to, thanks primarily to the former governments, is that HBOR today can get funds from institutional banks at a very favourable interest rate. And what is very important, these funds can be used for specific projects and programmes done by one government. And it is not good for such an institution to get muddled because if it is true that it is, then the Croatian economy will no longer get loans at a low interest rate through HBOR. If it's true that there were certain pressures, etc. Then it can also be said, it can be done, but without being defiled by the institution and without Croatia losing one billion and a half euros of credit at very low interest rates because the HBOR did not grant these loans at such a low interest rate because this government gave him the money to subsidise that interest, after all, that interest the Government cannot subsidise unless it is in certain programmes but because it was built, which proved to be operational, manage the funds and therefore the institutional banks began to lend him loans at very low interest rates which ultimately ended with Croatian businessmen. My colleagues and colleagues, when we talk about some loans being paid anyway, then we need to see just one question that can be asked to the president of the administration, and how many of these unpaid loans? How many of these loans fell on the back of Croatian taxpayers? It's the only question that can be discussed, whether someone got one like this or if someone got a loan like that. Everything else is usually politics and destruction of the institution of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, I say that if there were a different situation then we would have a bright example today in this assembly of the collapse of the institutions of the Republic of Croatia. That is why I say that we are responsible as the strongest political option in the Republic of Croatia, in this way we do not want to discuss this today. But we want to discuss the facts, and this is that through HBOR at this time only Croatian businessmen can get loans at interest rates that are as competitive as their competitors' interest rates on the European market and that is the fact. Is it in our interest that the next, in fact, this and next year, HBOR gets even more of these loans from institutional banks at a low interest rate that will later be rerouted to entrepreneurs, that is the question. Whether we bring him in or we don't put him in that position. Also, colleagues and colleagues, when discussing certain topics in this House, are often not hearing very important things. So we've had opportunities to hear from this left side of my assembly boasting that in the past year and a half the HBOR has taken the risk and has begun to place more credits where practically HBOR assumes 50% of the responsibility for placing these loans. Yes, HBOR has so far placed most of its loans through business banks and the risk of returning the loan practically on HBOR was not. However, at the moment when the ruling political set asked HBOR as its banks to go into greater risk and to place funds where 50% of the risks are taken over by HBOR, and 50% of the risks are taken over by business banks, colleagues and colleagues, you must be aware at that time that you have taken the risk that these unpaid loans are tomorrow because they are far more risky than those loans that have been in recent years, they may be the subject of a debate in this House, but let's not just pretend that we didn't know about it because if we love each other today, so if it turns out to be something that's bad tomorrow, then let's not blame someone else. But I'm saying, maybe some cookies, laundry, etc. He'll show up. What HBOR was supposed to become, what HBOR should be in the future is to be an export investment bank. Therefore, a bank that will guarantee our exporters and banks that will primarily finance investments in small and medium-sized enterprises because without small and medium-sized entrepreneurs there is no economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia. We keep forgetting what the structure of our economy is and that once craftsmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs by the nature of their work were leaning on large systems that were mostly state-owned. Today these practically... systems are gone. It's probably in someone's interest that INA disappears because this is a conflict within the government, around the INA is out of every sense, no matter what anyone wants to achieve. But it's not done in the media and it's not done in the way it's done. If someone was doing something illegal, there's a way to get rid of it. Why am I saying that? So, I was saying that HBOR gets loans from institutional banks, that it's very much being followed by credit rating agencies, and that INA quotes on the London Stock Exchange. Well, it's not exactly if your stock is on the London Stock Exchange, so it's not exactly a cat's cough so it can behave any way it wants. But when you pull these two parallels, then there will be again what kind of debate today in this assembly would be if it were HDZ, not SDP in the main role. But I repeat, we are a responsible political party and we simply do not want to have such a debate, nor do we think of it. We don't have a HDZ that would talk about criminal organizations today, who would talk about this, who would talk about it, we just don't have it, but if we were willing to point out the facts and that we're willing to tell what's going on, that's what we are. And HBOR is, I repeat, the best example of how it works untransparently. HBOR is a confirmation that this government is functioning. HBOR shows how the government uses someone as an instrument of reckoning within itself, and then there's no courage to say what's going on in HBOR badly and why did he have to leave Kovac? What did Linic have to go for? Who didn't get the credit, and he was supposed to get it? Who got the loan and shouldn't have gotten it? And have certain rules been broken or are certain rules not broken? So, colleagues and colleagues, the HDZ Club will support this report, there is no reason not to support it because regardless of this or that, the HBOR has been the only credit institution in the past crisis years where Croatian entrepreneurs could turn and get the money. What I have left for the end is the fact that the government over 20 of its programmes, through its economic ministries, is in principle implementing through the HBOR. Could the government's fear have been to admit that they attacked the HBOR and say that their program was wrong and that they had been placed on some means, so they gave a positive opinion or is that some other reason? Look, colleagues and colleagues, this year, HBOR was supposed to get about a billion and 150 million from the state budget, at the end of 900 and some million more, and for that amount the public debt of the Republic of Croatia is increasing. It doesn't cost anything. When we speak sleazy that we have increased the core capital of the HBOR we have increased it at the expense of our duties, but with a clear goal that the HBOR is placing these funds under favourable conditions on the Croatian economy. So, let me finish, as I said, we're going to support this report regardless of the cookies, the laundry, the hotels and things like that, but the point for the successful functioning of a country is institutions. Institutions that do not work well should be changed, those that work well should be kept but, frankly, after all these discussions, the government and the ruling club do not make it clear to me why the government appoints a new management president and the question is whether we will discuss the HBOR report in this way next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79936	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Representative Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79937	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. President of the Board. Well, here's my colleague Shucker. You've made it very clear that there's no relevant reason for the replacement of HBOR's board president. and the government itself confirmed that his work was concrete, good, transparent and effective. Hundreds and thousands of small entrepreneurs achieved loans under favourable conditions, with clear criteria that existed and were respected. Is only the shift caused by insubordination due to the pressure of the Prime Minister because of small biscuits that have been stolen or because of a laundry that does not exist, because they have not been allowed to break both the law and the criteria of a man who has served faithfully for 20 years and for the sake of Croatian entrepreneurs and craftsmen must be removed. The same as I believe the others who dared not obey what was removed from the law, standards, and criteria. I don't know what kind of policy that is, and what new justice in the Republic of Croatia is, especially from the current Prime Minister who swore to transparency, honesty, clear criteria, and everything else that he said wasn't in the previous governments. It's hard at all to understand whether really small biscuits are the only reason or the laundry of... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79938	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79939	Thank you very much. So that my colleague Djakic I was just arguing on behalf of the HDZ club saying that that mantra we're different just doesn't exist. That if you give a positive opinion on a single report, if you have no objection, if there's no objection from anyone in your club, and you have every knowledge of how that institution did, then it's obvious that you don't have the courage to say because some things didn't go the way you wanted to, you announced the shift, and now you have to do it. It doesn't matter how or why. That's why I was talking about institutions based on one state, institutions doing their job based on certain rules, institutions that are bad and bad but not having any food and a bad institution with a change, etc. You can do something, but there's nothing you can do with any institution. But the far greater tragedy is that at this point in Croatia no one dares to sign anything. Why? Because things are being drawn from the context of time and space and political and not professional judgment is being made, and that's the key thing. However, in this House I have not once said listening to heavy accusations on the other hand, your food chain will come in line. And apparently someone's food chain came in line. There's no unfair political party. Political parties make up people and they can be fair or unfair. But I repeat, obviously someone's digging and food chains are opening.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79940	Dear Representative Mile Horvat, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79941	Thank you. Comrade Shuker, we will also support the report on HBOR's work at the SDSS Club, and in any case, we will thank Mr Kovacev for his cooperation. You haven't touched one subject so far as your predecessors have, so one thing you're saying is what I agree that HBOR should lend small and medium entrepreneurship, but no one is talking about the OPGs. About the OPGs of one category of 100 thousand OPGs which cannot be the only organisational category or organisational form that cannot directly achieve credit by HBORs alone cannot. With their very serious projects, they often refer to direct talks with business banks and that's a dead story. In today's experience, business banks have absolutely no interest in lending to the agriculture sector or those things that the OPGs are doing right now. And that's the thing I want to pay special attention to because it's a lot of people who are employed, ambitious people, and a lot of credit-debted people on very unfavourable commercial loans, and for them any credit we're talking about here with privileged interest would be a rescue. However, with such a model where the OPGs cannot be directly financed by the HBOR, they cannot achieve any credit. That's what practice says. Also, practice says business banks just smile when they say you have HBOR credit, says we're not interested because we have the risk of collection, and we don't have any profit because the interest rate for them is unattractive. And that's the reality of crediting through HBOR.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79942	Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79943	That my colleague Horvat, I fully agree with you, is why I said in my debate that over 20 programmes, resolution ministries are credited through HBOR. And if the Minister of Agriculture had thought a little bit more about the CAPs and had, together with the Ministry of Trade and Entrepreneurship, made a programme because the OPGs are not any agricultural activity, they are only part of it, that is, purely economic activity, then the OPGs would be in the same situation. If they had made less of a cookie deal and given a guarantee to someone else, then maybe a loan would have been given to the O.P.G. But fellow Horvat, why did I start my discussion with the institutions? Institutions are the instrument of one government to implement policy. What you cannot do through one institution can be done through another institution but by clear rules of the game, not by grandmothers and uncles, by brothers and brother-in-laws, but by clear rules of the game. And the logical thing is that after lending the farm programme when 30 thousand milk cows have been slaughtered in Croatia for the past 7,8 months and when you look at the statistics that Croatia has grown export then you will see that one of the largest points of export increase is your export of beef where we are cows because someone did not make sure that people get over the price of milk and that they can produce but they had to slaughter them. And these farms that are credited through HBOR have practically disappeared and today the HBOR and these farmers are in trouble too. And there's that continuity of politics. If we said we wanted so much and so many hundred or millions of gallons of milk to enter the European Community, then we had to make sure that the peasants for the first two, three years survived that price difference and did not force them to slaughter that cattle.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79944	Thank you very much. The replica of the respected representative, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79945	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Comrade Shuker, I will begin my replica with a famous sentence from Mr. Assembly Representative of our colleague who said "I don't believe I know the goal and understand the direction of this government.". Because listening to you, looking at this report, listening to the president of the administration being replaced by this government has introduced a strange, strange practice. We are here to discuss reports and when they are unanimously accepted, the heads of these bodies are changed. We had a report from the state's attorney's office, and we all accepted it nicely, after a few days of a state's attorney being removed. Now we have an HBOR report, we'll all accept it, after a few, i.e. The current leader has already been replaced. We had a Croatian Olympic Committee, a different, different procedure, there the report was not accepted but the leaders did not replace it because they cannot change it. So it seems to me that we're becoming a bit of a party state and we don't want to have a party state but we want to have independent bodies, arranged bodies, professional bodies where the party can't do what it wants or imposes what it wants. Because if that were the case, we'd live better and better. I was listening to that famous press conference today and I got the impression that Minister Linic was removed for Little Biscuits, again the HBOR is inside and mentions another minister who works 60 new jobs endangering 2300 other jobs. It's, it's my impression, whether it's true will show time. But this is about the fact that there's no more talking about the Bundes League, this has now become some new sport, this is football within the ruling political structure. Unfortunately, those who have been professional, who have worked in these institutions for many years, suffer to achieve their partial and party interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79946	Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79947	So, fellow Boric, let's use a little sports dictionary since the World Cup is near the government's opinion and according to the discussion of colleagues from the ruling club, this is a Bundesliga report because there are no objections. And now you're one game that's played in such a way that you're switching to the regional league. Because why? This man who's here can't start out of the Bundes League, he's got to get past some league before we're gonna see if it's the Bundes League next year or if it's some kind of regional league, I'm not gonna use some names like our prime minister likes to use it. But it is evident that the institution that works well, which everyone swears to, about which we have a consensus in this House and we say that someone has worked well afterwards, does not extend the mandate to those leaders but is named by others. And today, from the press conference of counterpart Linic it is clear that these players can't play because they don't listen to the coach so they should shoot a free shot. Because if Kovac shot a free shot and shoved him in the 90's and the prime minister said he had to shoot his own goal, he didn't do it and he replaced him and that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79948	Thank you very much. We are continuing the debate of individual representatives. It's next, Honorable representative Nadica Jelash. She's gone. Thank you very much. Will the president of the HBOR administration give the final word? Yeah. The Honorable President of the Board Anton Kovachev.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79949	Thank you very much, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I must first of all say that in this year, the past for which the report was presented here to the Croatian Parliament in 2013 and previous years, the management of the HBOR administration worked according to political decisions, then we would not have this kind of financial report. That's for sure. The second thing, if we had been working on political decisions then we wouldn't have received 650m euros in loans from international financial institutions under the most favourable conditions, regardless of Croatia's rating and thus automatically and rating Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development as state development banks. So it's nowhere in the world. Believe me, international financial institutions are following very closely how their loans are spent. First of all, they demand almost all individual loans consent. So we make a decision on loan approval, we send a confirmation of that decision to EIB KFE, CEB or EBRD, and only by their consent can we place that loan. On the other hand, international financial institutions come to visit at least twice a year, and this visit is not only a list of credit requirements or approved credits in our archive, i.e. in the credit sector, but a sample method they go to the field together with our representatives and check for the purpose of using the credit. Any bad decisions? There is. What kind of bank in the world, was it a private, commercial or developmental or export bank, no bad decisions, no bad judgments? But what is important, at the end of 2013, the percentage of outstanding loans in HBOR was 5.2%. 5.2%. Can this percentage be achieved if it is done by political directives? Is there any pressure to grant credit? There is. He's got absolutely, and there's always been. I don't want to be false in this House or something that isn't true. So there has always been political pressure, but primarily pressure from businessmen or entrepreneurs themselves, from their mayors, mayors, parliamentary representatives, ministers. Is it pressure when you get a call from a minister or a parliamentary representative? Well, you can say it's a kind of pressure, but we used to get rid of those pressures. If we hadn't gotten rid of our financial results wouldn't have been like this, we wouldn't have the reputation among the international financial institutions we have. That's for sure. International financial institutions are too serious for us to hide and tell here we have approved a good loan, which is a dedicated loan, which is not. Whether there are unintended loans, yes, but they are negligible in relation to the total number of loans. I just need to get two information. HBOR has so far approved over 33,000 individual loans through lending, through export or guarantee insurance, through over 50,000 projects. And since we know what the number of economic operators is then we need to know that this is a large percentage of the total number. Who's a relative to whom, who's connected, we don't take care of. We listen to all the pressures. I've never been president of the board, and I'm convinced both colleagues and colleagues who work have never hung up on anyone. So they listened to the arguments and said, and eventually we decided, not individually, not me as the chairman of the board, so the Credit Committee passed the analysis, so the Legal Service, the Technical Service, the Risk Service, the Credit Committee, if it was a larger amount of management and if it was more than 37 million kuna and the Supervisory Board. And yet I tell you honestly here there have been mistakes, but they are negligible in our business as a whole. We simply can't say that the kind, if we're going to call it, the pressure wasn't there before and that there aren't any now, but I'm going to tell you here specifically these two cases that are being mentioned because I owe it to you here because the press is waiting for me, so I'm going to have to tell them that. As regards the laundromat, the laundromat was resolved within the framework amounts of loans approved by HBOR from the credit or source of KFE to commercial banks. So it's a loan where the HBOR made no decision but a decision was taken by the business bank, and the HBOR gave its consent because, based on the business bank's report, he saw that it was a loan that fits into the credit programme and that's the whole truth. On the other hand, when it comes to speaking, I would say politically not only about this laundry room but about a series of loans that the HBOR has been calling out for these months, but then something comes out of context, and we simply can't, as a management, as an institution can't answer something that's been taken out of context if we don't say the whole explanation, and that's believe me both too long and comprehensively. They're not HBOR loans, they're not donated funds. For these loans should be given in stock what is financed, there should be additional property of the company, any private property, and in many times when it is not enough to look for personal bonds and debtors, so the one who has given personal bonds and debtors he has placed in stock and grandfatherhood and fatherland and what he himself created and what he thinks he will create in the future. So I'm sorry that HBOR has been in crossfire for the last five months of certain loans, that certain loans were also a decision that was bad, is or have not been sufficiently checked for use, but I assure you that this is negligible in relation to total loans. I will now specifically represent Grubisic raised the question, i.e. asked Đura Djakovic and approved 150 million kuna. We try to save every company we think can be saved and every job if possible. And many times believe we are between hammers and anvils, between the hammer that says if you do not approve that loan then the company will go bankrupt, the workers will go to the Employment and Anvil Office which says that you as our founders, or the Croatian State, have entrusted us with the capital that we must guard and preserve so that we can approve of others. Many times believe me these decisions are on the edge of the knife, that we ourselves don't know whether to resort to the positive ones that we have in the processing of loans to the positive parts of that project and to that company or to the negative ones. Unfortunately, the vast majority of entrepreneurs in particular over the last few years have been in such financial difficulties that simply when you see the balance, when you see the results you don't know what to do with it. I pointed out that this is why we went boldly and proposed to the Supervisory Board and the Supervisory Board made a decision on the establishment of an investment development fund and made a decision to invest 100 million kuna even though it is not the development bank's task at all to try to capitalise on companies that have a chance on the market and are creditworthy. You can't grant a loan to a company that has 70% or 80% of the debt balance, or credit, and only ten or fifteen percent of its own capital. I don't know, you can tell me about this nursing home later. Look, always the entrepreneur shows that good side of the story. If the entrepreneur is in difficulty, we cannot base him on EU rules which are now also Croatian regulations to grant credit as a state institution. We can only verify or test the competition, which is that a business bank or someone who will capitalize on it, some partners participate at least 50% in this approval. That is also the answer to the esteemed representative Horvat as regards the OPG. The OPG can now be dealt with by risk sharing, so especially those OPGs that are overly credit-laden with business banks' loans. So we can solve them to track them 50% directly from HBOR's funds, and the other 50% may be from HBOR's funds but must be through a business bank to test the competition. As for the quality of the portfolio, here I apologize to the President and the Honorable Madam and Gentlemen Representatives for the length. As regards the quality of the portfolio, it was the following at the end of 2013: companies in a) so those companies in which they did not charge in question were 85%. Companies that were qualified in b) so those of whom we expect partial payment of claims were 13%. The companies we're counting on to be invulnerable were 2%. So again, I'm saying it wouldn't be such a good portfolio quality if we were running political evaluations. What the esteemed representative Cvetovic said about supporting companies that have successfully passed the pre-profit deal I pointed out that we were going to set up an investment development fund and that would include international financial institutions, first of all, the EIF and the AFS, we were going with colleagues from the SID, Slovenian export companies to establish a regional fund because these international financial institutions said we are willing to invest capital only if it is a regional fund, so we agreed with our Slovenian neighbours to create a joint regional investment fund. In addition, a specific programme is being prepared for the lending of companies that have successfully passed pre-departure agreements. As for re-industrialisation, we have had a lower interest rate for the third year, so in the range of two, three, and five percent for all those who are willing to invest in the industry, and last year, not thirteen, but twelve years, we have brought a new programme called new production. So, for all those entrepreneurs with much more favourable and dues and payouts and interest rates we are ready to approve for new production in terms of investment in the production of something that has been imported so far and has not been produced in Croatia. God forbid this House decides that the core capital of the HBOR is not 10 billion, but 15 billion will surely be well accepted not only in HBOR but also among entrepreneurs, i.e. companies. As regards the use of the HBOR European funds, HBOR has participated significantly in the use of pre-accession funds. We believe and involve ourselves in being very successful and participating in the use of European funds. Here I think I've answered everything, but believe me, here's my colleague Grubisic calling, so maybe I should stay behind the line right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79950	You sit down. I'll call you back. Thank you very much for the closing statement. And let's go to the replicas in order. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79951	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Kovacchev, I am pleased that in this final account, you said about the percentage of suspected loans for the simple reason that the percentage and these loans that are allegedly not returned were the same as the statements of the ruling at the time that they passed it on. That's why in my debate, I mentioned taking a 50% risk that tomorrow this percentage is likely to increase. But then someone made such a political decision to do so, so there is no need to direct something else. And as for this laundry and credit, so clearly, the HBOR respected some of its rules, however, behind the laundromat towers or the foam that washes cars hides a bank. That bank has destroyed 50 million taxpayers' money. Because if I'm not mistaken, the Bank Center, before the bankruptcy, was helped by this government's decision of 50 million kuna. How much will this bank ultimately cost the State Agency for Bank Rehabilitation that's the same question. And let's not say that DAB money is not Croatian citizens' money, because DAB funds for savings insurance are paid by business banks. Therefore, they are also Croatian citizens' money. So, that laundry room in its car-washing foam hides a bank centre that cost the Croatian state 50 million, and I say when the DAB report comes, then we'll see how much it eventually cost the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79952	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice-President of Dom Milorad Batinic, Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79953	Thank you, Mr. President. Namely, my colleague Kovacev wanted to base the debates here from this pay phone HBOR is an institution and that the current political set of institutions that I see has not been torn down. The more you do in your final presentation, the more you repeat what we know you do according to banking principles, and that's exactly what this percentage shows. I think some commercial banks have done far more risky business than the HBOR itself. Of course, you are used to political debates and all kinds of tampering and trickery, and I would like to thank you this way for making your position and political pressures very correct, no matter where you came from and when you came from, and for explaining us in a very simple way to those citizens who listen to certain discussions of some colleagues from this pay phone are simply not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79954	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Davorin Mlakar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79955	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President of the Management Report of the HBOR was done, and this has already been commended by colleagues in some structure where certain items are not seen, but since you were talking about specific items, it actually offered me this replica. In fact, it's as if someone was planning on talking about certain cases from HBOR's work just today, so I wanted to tell you actually the following. You were talking about a specific case of some laundry. I don't know, I figured out from the replica that it was a car wash. I thought of something completely different, but I wanted to thank you, in fact, for explaining to us that this loan is not an HBOR problem but a business bank, and that's how you comforted us. I think it's a lot easier for all of us now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79956	Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79957	Thank you very much. Mr. Kovac, you didn't convince me at all when you talked about it and tried to convince all of us that approval of the loan was not related to a certain political option. Namely, it's not category A, B and C of those loans, 85.13.2%. In comparison with political belongings, we're talking about the possibility of obtaining credit, there's this political, political influence, not the return of credit, which is why you haven't completely dissuaded me. Secondly, when we talk about Đura Djakovic, you yourself know that both the town of Slavonski Brod and Croatia's medivac industry will be completely dead if there is a collapse of Đura Djakovic, which is being led by Mr. Kovacevic, the current director of Đura Djakovic and his administration, which has ruined all the efforts of all the workers of Đura Djakovic in two years, and this is indeed a disaster. If we want 1200 people back on the desk, and if we want to destroy the medivac industry then Mr. Maras can do what he wants, it's his right.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-29-0.u79958	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the list of respondents to the debate and the list of replicas and responses to the replica. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I wish the esteemed president of the HBOR administration a new job success. I thank you for 20 years of dedicated work. His ID is 20 reports accepted in this House, his term of office has expired. Thank you again very much. We'll stop now because we've stayed on schedule to do three agenda points. We had a more lively discussion about three points of the agenda, she was left behind, so we will continue tomorrow at 10 o'clock with a vote on the points of the agenda at this time, at 10 o'clock, and at 12 o'clock we will meet and mark the Day of the Croatian Parliament here in the Assembly, 24 years of the democratically formed Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much. I'll see you tomorrow. Session adjourned at 4.30 p.m. HBOR’s annual financial report for 2013. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following decision: "The Annual Financial Report of the HBOR for 2013 is hereby confirmed". Who's in favour of the proposed decision? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? There is. I'm asking for a result. I note that the proposed decision was made by a majority of 95 votes in favour and 1 abstention.
