ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76290	My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good day. And we will begin the debate with - The 2012 Prosecution Service Report is the Reporter of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the material. The hearing was conducted by the Justice Committee. You received the reports at the session. Here you go, Nenad Dance. And now we're going back to the 2012 Probation Service Report. The opening report will explain the deputy justice minister, Ms Sandra Artuković Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76292	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs. Probation is a new system set up in the Republic of Croatia, whose purpose is to humanise the enforcement of criminal sanctions and the effective resociation and reintegration of perpetrators of criminal offences into the social community. The Croatian National Prosecution System is set up in line with the recommendations of the EU Council of Ministers as one of the priorities of the Justice Reform Strategy. Probation jobs are carried out to protect the social community from the perpetrators of the crime in such a way as not to separate him from the middle by closing him in prison but to resociate him in the community. It is about integration in the community through the impact on those risk factors that have also led to the committing of a crime, for example the withdrawal of drug addiction or alcohol, communication skills and the like. The probation system encourages the imposition of sanctions in the community, thus reducing prison sentences and reducing the number of prison convicts. The prison system is very expensive compared to probation and practice has shown that short-term prison sentences are not the best solution. The Republic of Croatia has already had a number of years for minor perpetrators of criminal offences system that is very similar to the probationary system and therefore the idea of probation is not entirely alien to our legal system. And as far as adults are concerned, parole with protective supervision has been a sanction on something different, prescribed by the old penal law of the former state of 76, and we've taken it upon ourselves. She was detained and improved and the 1997 Penal Code introduced a replacement for prison, a work for the common good on the loose. In 1999, we passed the Law on the exercise of protective supervision and work for the general good, and until the establishment of probationary offices, the implementation of sanctions was supervised by the Commissioners. Given all the advantages of this system, starting with the generally accepted principle that prison should be the last choice in Croatia began to create a modern and professional Probation Service. The law on probation was passed in 2009, followed by the adoption of sublaw regulations which created the conditions for the functioning of the system. Prosecution jobs are under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice and in the probation sector which is part of the criminal law and probation administration in the Republic of Croatia there are 12 local probation offices in Bjelovar, Dubrovnik, Osijek, Požega, Pula, Rijeka, Sisak, Split, Varazdin, Zadar, Zagreb 1 and Zagreb 2. The trial is closely related to criminal proceedings. Inclusion in probation is possible when deciding on prosecution, e.g. where the supervision of the enforcement of obligations imposed by the State Attorney's Office during the criminal proceedings when a report is submitted to the court, in the exercise of alternative sanctions or in the execution of work for the general good and conditional convictions with protective supervision and in the execution of the prison sentence, the supervision of the paroled convict. During the first year of the work of the probation offices, the judgments were generally carried out, which gave the general good work on freedom and conditional convictions with protective supervision because they had taken over a large number of such cases which had to be put into operation in a hurry. In 2011, 509 convictions with protective supervision were carried out, 194 of these convictions were received in 2011 and 2399 of the exercise of the general good on the loose, with 965 arriving in 2011. In 2012, 235 convictions were delivered for a conditional conviction with protective supervision and 965 with work for the common good on the loose. In 2012, the office began to carry out other prescribed probational tasks such as parole, detention of prison sentences, enforcement obligations, after the resolution of the state lawyer and reporting to the victims that the convicted were coming out of detention. Breaches are in practice taking place in the following way, hence the judgment replacing the sentence of prison with work for general good or applying a conditional sentence with protective supervision shall be delivered to the competent probationary officer, or to the office and to the official of the summoning of the convict, explaining to him at all what the probation is, why, through the interview, relevant data are collected, the relevant data shall also be requested from other bodies or, for example, from criminal records or criminal social history and so forth. On the basis of the data collected, the probationary officer shall assess the risks and treatment needs of the convicts, accordingly draw up an individual programme of treatment in which the activities which the convict must fulfil are indicated. The convict shall, by his signature, accept the programme, the probationary office and the legal person in whom the work for general good is carried out, have regular contacts and, if the convict does not come to the workplace or otherwise fulfils the obligations of the probationary officer, immediately invites him and, in the event of refusal of the execution of the work programme, the probation officer shall inform the competent court and request the execution of the prison sentence. In the case of a conditional conviction with protective supervision, the probationary officer regularly has meetings with the convict and conducts motivational talks and oversees the implementation of specific obligations imposed on the convict as such. Treatment for drug or alcohol addicts or through examination of medical documentation and contact with the relevant authorities shall monitor the state of affairs. The trial also has other positive effects, a dozen people who worked for the general good after the execution of the sanctions received an offer for employment in places where they worked because they proved to be quality workers. Some of the convicts remain volunteers in associations at the end of the sanctions, some convicts also received special commendations for the results achieved and, of course, greatly influenced their confidence and self-respect. The important thing is that progress has been made in the thinking and behavior of convicts through the sampling system. During 2012, we continued to implement and project IPA 2008. Support for the development of the screening system in the Republic of Croatia. We are partners with the UK and the Czech Republic. In this context, all testing offices are technically equipped, a PIS or a probation information system has been developed. It became functional in the full sense in June 2012. All probation officials have passed education, the finalisation of instruments for the assessment of criminal risks and treatment needs has been carried out, a manual and guidelines for use and probationary officers and instruments used in daily work have been developed. In 2012, the number of subjects received increased by almost 50% compared to 2011. The number of cases executed is 4 times higher in 2012. The number of unallocated cases was reduced by 60% compared to 2011. During 2012, 111 new contracts for the execution of work for the general good were concluded, thereby facilitating the execution of this sanction. Through the supervision of parole, the probationary service began to work with the perpetrators of serious crimes against life and the body or sexual freedom and the like. And it is significant that about 40% of the population is included in the trial now, that they are actually returnees, about 70% of them are being punished multiplely, so these are people where the regular penalty system has not shown positive, so I believe that the trial will give better results than the previous ones. Finally, at the end of 2012, a new Prosecution Act was adopted, which is in line with the new Penal Code, entered into force on 01 January 2013, in the field of probation, new jobs were given, the implementation of specific obligations, the enforcement of the safeguard measure and the like, but this will be the subject for the 2013 report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76293	Comrade König, you have a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76294	Thank you, Vice President of our Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister, you mentioned many participants in the probationary system, but in my opinion you should highlight and commend a number of institutions where punishment can be served, so like the House for Elderly and Infirm, the Red Cross, Animal Friends Association and a series of other institutions. Currently, in the Republic of Croatia, work for the general good is done in 694 legal persons, i.e. institutions and other legal persons whose activity is humanitarian, ecological, municipal, or benefit for the social community. A contract was concluded with 116 municipalities and towns in the Republic of Croatia, however, a large disproportionate number of contracts concluded per county. In some counties namely our Croatia, almost all municipalities and cities in the area have concluded a contract with the regional probation departments, but in some counties none. In my opinion, the probation office should make an additional effort, and municipalities and cities recognize the benefits of such a system which, I agree with you really great.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76295	Do the Committee’s rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleagues Grubisic and Cain were to speak, not present and lose the right and the club loses the right to debate on this point. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, colleague Branko Vukšić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76296	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished deputy minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here, as the Deputy Minister said, and as you all know for sure, the Probation Service is one of the new services, the digestive system is one of the new systems, not only in Croatia, but in Croatia it is certainly much younger than in the EU and in general in the US and many other countries that have significantly longer implemented the system. The deputy minister was actually saying everything in the trial service report, here in the report is statistics that can be true, these are numbered activities, but with those I talked to and when I talked to a year ago and more than a year ago, it seems to me that last year we didn't discuss, this is for 2012, and when I talked after a year and a few days a lot of things stayed, actually most things remained the same. So the digestive system today works most thanks to the enthusiasm of people who work in the digestive system. We haven't systemically solved or systematically resolved that the digestive system is getting the results it should. The deputy minister mentioned work for the general good which, when we look at statisticalally, has some purpose, but when we look at the processes that took place in the Republic of Croatia and when we look at the penalties for certain acts that have seriously damaged the state then we see that the work for the general good has started to be, in fact, mocking the laws, mocking the system because when someone who has damaged the state for 30 million kuna and who should be properly punished as a role model to others, under quotes, gets the punishment of swallowing potatoes from a few months or a year at most, then he wonders whether it is justice or injustice on the part so that when we talk about the trial system we should also have such facts in mind. As I said, the digestive system works most thanks to enthusiasm, thanks to the professional people who work in that system and thanks to the desire of those who are in the digestive system to be useful. I'll talk about two, three facts that make the digestive system dysfunctional. First of all, I don't know, it would be much more instructive and it would be good for the deputy minister to speak when she or she finally speaks, or when she wants to take her word, to answer some of the questions why nothing came from a dead end in a domain that is highly sensitive because part of the justice that needs to work doesn't work right, and we know that the judiciary in every country is the foundation, and our foundations are rotten, that I'm not repeating and it's very rotten. Probation services are facing a lack of technical resources, one of the most important things that is, and now you may be surprised, these are probation services, we just heard from the deputy minister how many there are, so imagine, it is one service per county, about, they need cars, they need to come to those who are released on parole, they need to get to the penitentiary, they are mostly using their own cars. Now I'm not gonna mention it, last time I mentioned some cases, and it was even that the person who was supposed to be watching the axe got stuck in a car like that. The illustrations just to see what danger these probation officers are in. Because they don't have technical means to do their job, someone will say it's because of the poverty of the state, because of the recession we're in, it's interesting now that when we go back to a thousand and some 1700 of those cars, and some of them are in the garage, so I suggest that the 5, 6 that are in the garage are sold and given to the Probation Service, all the Probation Services will work fantasticly, will work fantasticly. So even the ministers said we don't drive it we put it in the garage, so it's the biggest sin to cover our eyes. When the officers who work in the Probation Service have an indication that, that's what I said last time, I'm saying now, I asked if anything has changed not to mention it, the law says that "supervised people don't bear the costs" because they have nothing to bear the costs because they're an unemployed people, a wave of people on the edge. If you don't have a way to get to them and if they don't have a way to get to the Probation Service, that means that surveillance is pretty weak, that this statistics we're talking about here, so I'm saying that statistics can be a lie, a goddamn lie. I don't trust this statistic, I don't trust the essence. So I don't believe that's all that's written here is well done. That doesn't mean that people who do it don't want to do their job well. And those who are on probation means convicts are sufficiently informed that they will not be punished if they do not report to the Probation Services, if they are not under control because the system is not working and the system is absolutely certain that they will not initiate any proceedings against them because, first of all, such a situation in the digestive system is the fault of the state. The other thing that I also said a year and a half ago or a year and a few days ago is the weak networking of the Probation Service with other institutions that are essential to the work of the Probation Service. Probation services should do the job spotlessly and can't wait for weeks or months for information, data, reports by the institutions of the police, psychiatry, state attorneys, prisons, penitentiary, and most of the information is sent to e-mails, answers are waiting, and sometimes pardons are done mostly, instead of being networked, instead of having constant communication and getting the information that is needed on the mouse click, however, this has not yet been done. The second thing, probation has its own information system, so-called the so-called information system. PIS Probation-information system and in which each action of a probationary officer has been recorded. In the 21st century, this means that in their system that is not linked to other systems everything is recorded, everything should be kept in paper form and subsequently burdened with budgets. One of the biggest problems is that probation officials are sometimes exposed to their lives or safety because they mainly carry out and control those who are on probation without any protection. So once again, don't let anything happen, and only when it happens later will we intervene when the damage is irreparable. The very report provided by the Deputy Minister for Statistical Data does not pour in to Croatian Labourists, it does not seem reliable so that we will not be able to accept this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76297	Replica, Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76298	Thank you. Dear colleague, you have expressed in your presentation a certain... fact that for certain serious acts of corruption you can get a replacement of the sentence by working for the greater good. It seems to me that it is not a problem in that institute to replace a prison with a measure of work for the greater good but perhaps a problem in something else, which we in our criminal code may have prescribed small too little penalties for such serious acts of corruption. So, this measure itself, thus replacing the prison sentence with the general good, gives good effects in the case of certain crimes, in the sense that we can mark a minor relapse when we apply that measure, for example, when we talk about some criminal acts against the property of a lower intensity or some other criminal acts when we do not want to put such an example. The man who committed a certain traffic crime in a criminal institution where he was then in a group of tough criminals and there is a great danger so-called. criminal... But this is a problem, I really agree, and I will surely support the initiative to write down and propose stricter penalties in the criminal code for the crimes of corruption. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then for such acts you couldn't possibly... A sentence of up to 6 months of law, especially for works of magnitude, where we are talking about millions of kunas of damage rather than an unconditional sentence of imprisonment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76299	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76300	Dear colleague Pandek, I fully agree with you. Stronger penalties for hard-working political criminals who steal in places that should be a role model, should do good and make crime. Chickens get, those who deal with petty thieves who are under quotes of interest get two days in prison for robbing a kiosk. And politicians who have sinned for tens of millions of kunas get fined for general good. It's a mockery of the system, it's a mockery of justice and it doesn't lead to good. It is unfortunately worth stealing in Croatia. That's what we're ordering. And it's worth stealing not small amounts of money, large amounts of money. It's still worth it to be mayor or mayor or at some other post or government and take money because there's no condemnation of society, no even condemnation of its own parties, no emergency shifts. And I agree with you, let's start by changing the level of punishment for political corruption, for political corruption, for the heavy acts that take place day by day in Croatia. And it only happens because a lot of people estimate I'm gonna steal 30 million I'm never gonna pay back, I'm gonna put that money away. And the most important thing is, to get the money back, it's the most important thing to get the money back. And most of the money robbed by politicians who are also guilty of these robberies will never be returned to the state's cash register, and it is the ones who paid that money into the state's register that damaged it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76301	My colleagues and colleagues visiting the Croatian Assembly are representatives of the Italian Senate and the Ambassador of the Republic of Italy Mrs. Emmanuel D'alessandro and we welcome her. Replica, colleague of Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76302	Thank you very much. Comrade Vuksic, you expressed your deep disappointment with this report and said you would not accept it. In some ways, it is understandable because this report is practically the result of that old behavior when it comes to the digestive system or to all those measures relating to the digestive system. It is expected that the next report will be I believe much more dynamic, more extensive, more content and that it will show some of the first effects of the experimental measures themselves. Namely, it is expected to take into account the increase in crime in our country, given the increase in criminal penalties, given the increase in so-called. In view of the increase in juvenile crime, given the increase in domestic violence, it is expected that such trial measures will apply to them. This amount of staff working in the probationary system will absolutely not be able to do that. If it's our purpose to introduce a little more humanism through probation, we should go to the education of young minors, for example. They enter such a system, then there will be a much greater engagement of a state that will not be able to give it because again they will not have money, not for cars, but they will not have money for the work of officials. And in my opinion, I should introduce volunteers as role models for some other countries that have a great probational system in Europe and have volunteers who talk to such offenders, who practically advise them, who follow them, who in every way help them to resociate. And that's how our community gets a little bit more organized, we're a little bit more all tied up and we look out for each other and we get more humane through it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76303	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76304	Dear colleagues of Skare-Ozbolt, when I spoke on behalf of the club in 2012 I just said that I hoped that there would be a more dynamic next report and now I was talking about this next report and there is no dynamics. It's dynamics, but in what we've come to realize, we have to be amazed, we realize that nothing is moving, everything is in place. What you said, yes, and the European Union resented us not working enough to fight crime and corruption to prevent it. This is certainly one of the preventions. Unfortunately, you've also suggested a rise in crime, you said it was an increase in crime. And there's a rise in crime. One of our biggest objections to this government is that it hardly mentions the fight against corruption anymore. It's almost as if when the Kukurik coalition came along as if we said now corruption is gone. Which is not true. Corruption is in all segments, and it will be, no matter who's in power. But it was only spoken when HDZ was in power, then corruption was discussed. Now all of a sudden it's taboo topic and taboo topic is why, because in the corrupting actions are people in power, people in power. And no, it's not appropriate to talk anymore. And normally in the hallway when I come out now, they'll say why you're attacking us again. I'm not attacking, I'm just telling the truth, and it's making me feel like a parliamentary agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76305	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Shantek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76306	Dear Madam Vice President, dear deputy minister, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here's the 2012 report, and now it's the end of March 2014. What was expected was that we would get a report for 2012 and 2013 when there was no previous 2012 report because this way when we talk about the 2012 report, and already far away from 2013 and the Probation Service had one year more experience, in any case something could be concluded from these reports. Some colleagues have already talked about it, and I'm fully involved because this report is not complete for us, and I'm going to try to explain it in these few minutes as far as I can get here. So according to this report, the main indicators of the success of the Probation Service in 2012 are that 1571 new items were received, that 1261 subjects were thus 81% successful, that there was a fixed 183 744 hours of social work, that agreed and signed cooperation with 111 new legal entities to perform the work for the general good and that a trial information system was implemented. Here we also see that there has been a reorganisation of the testing system itself so that a probationary office was established, of which 12 scheduled 11 were formed during 2012. According to the structure of the case, we can see that a conditional conviction for protective supervision is given in 235 cases, work for general good 965, parole 62, notification of victim 292, report to court 13, execution of obligation 4. So of that number, the largest number was actually working for the general good at freedom of 965 or 80%. We also see that departments have been formed for the conduct of the central office's affairs and between them and the electronic surveillance department which I consider to be very important and important. What I would like to say at the outset is that according to the Law on Prosecution which is in force, it is said of the purpose and content of the probative affairs, so Article 2 provides that the probative affairs are carried out with the aim of protecting the social community from the perpetrators of criminal offences, its resociation and reintegration in the community affect the risk factors associated with the conduct of criminal offences, and of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia. According to this report, we also see that a large category of convicts are perpetrators of domestic violence sanctioned by the provisions of a criminal or a law on protection against domestic violence. In 2012, 50 cases were received in the trial office in which the perpetrators committed serious crimes and in this report the Probation Service in some way complained because we received the most difficult perpetrators of criminal offences. However, all those who have experience working with the prison system know that this is exactly the category of convicts such as perpetrators of crimes of murder, serious murder, murder at large, etc., in which they are in some way being sued here. In fact, the easiest way to work with them is because they have developed habits and they come to the Probation Service at a time when they have to integrate into the community, so at the very end of their sentence, which is sometimes after 10 to 15 years of imprisonment. According to sexual and age structure, we see that it is in 2012. 92% refers to male, only 125 or 8% to female. We also see that most of the age structure refers to younger people, which is expected in any case because the very purpose of the Prosecution Act was to separate young people from prisons and prisons and thus to reduce the negative influence of other prisoners who are just such a category of young people who are prone to influence and can impose on them some of their ideas about how to behave in life. However, I have been saying this all along because of one part of this report that I would really like to comment on and in any case hear and answer because something is not clear to me. According to the report, out of the total number of people who received the rulings in 2012, 606 or 38.6% were previously punished once or more, while 965 or 60% were not previously punished. Of the total number of persons enrolled in the trials that were previously punished, 30% were once previously punished, 16% were punished twice, 11% three times, 12% were previously punished four times, five or more times were punished 31%. According to the report, two cases of work for general good were received in 2012 in which the perpetrators were previously punished 32 times for various crimes. This is where I'd go back to Article 2. A law on probation that says that probational work is done with the aim of protecting the social community from perpetrators of criminal offences. So it is really not clear how to protect the social community from multiple returnees in committing criminal acts if they are allowed to carry out penalties through work for the common good, so in fact on the loose. According to this report, 1261 cases were carried out, and the work for the general good was 965 persons or 80%, as well as the report shows that according to the structure of the perpetrators of criminal offences, the work for general good was either 965 persons or 80% of those who were protected by some international law. So I would really like to ask you to comment on this part of the report. The financial part of the Report shows that around 60% of the expenditure of the Probation Service refers to employee costs and only 27% for the resociation of convicted persons who exercise sanctions at large. The report also did not list the number of employees of the service. There is nothing in the report on the work of the Department of Electronic Control, it is not known whether the equipment obtained for that department, in which capacity, how many persons used this equipment, and what experience the department has had with the use of that equipment. In the opening part of my presentation, I have just said that there are many perpetrators of domestic violence that are in the jurisdiction of the Probation Service, and in any case, the court sometimes pronounces the measure of restraining the victim and this can most successfully be achieved through this particular electronic surveillance and achievement. From all this above, I join my colleagues who have said that the report is not... It is not complete and therefore the HDZ Club will be abstention when voting on the adoption of this report. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76307	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76308	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Shantek, I was surprised by this number of relapsers you were talking about. If I followed correctly, you said that 31% were relapsers with five or more, who did five or more times as I understood mostly property delinquents. It's a devastating statistic whatever we call it, and from that it can be concluded that regardless of what the good news is about the trial system, people's enthusiasm, savings. I believe that it is contrary in general to the Law on Persuasion, that it has not achieved its goal in that fundamental objective of protecting the wider social community, and that we are not talking about that part over and over again about resociation, etc. I really believe that these data must be worrying, require a special clarification, because if I were to compare such statistics with that fundamental activity that I am monitoring health care, etc. That's how many would die, I don't know what level he'd end up at. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76309	Replication response, Ivan Shantek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76310	Thank you. Dear colleague, in the course of the report, of carrying out this part, I didn't mean to put the burden on the Probation Service itself, because they're just doing what they're ordered to do. So if you order it to work for the general good then it's work for the general good. And I have to admit as surprised as I am, and that's why I've given this particular accent, because all the debate that was during the passage of the Prosecution Act was to reduce the overcrowding of prisons that I've talked about here very often, because I think it's really about getting rid of penitentiary and prisons. However, it is obvious that nothing is done in the sense that if legal obligations are given to someone, then the means must be provided. We see from the very financial structure that this is about 2/3 of the Probation Service Fund being used for employees' salaries, and only 1/3 for what they should actually work for. So my appeal is the same on this side that if someone is a multiple relapser then in any case my opinion is not his place outside. But also, the Probation Service needs to be able to do what the law has to do, and in any case, you should tend to put it right on this department of electronic surveillance. In this way, we could further relieve the prisons, because people would know that they were being followed and that they would not avoid the situation that counterpart Vuksic was talking about, which is not to report to the Probation Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76311	Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76312	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, Shantek, and I've reported to also point out that I was surprised at this report when I saw that the prison sentence was replaced by work for the greater good of someone who was 32 times punished. But that's certainly no reason to be abstentioned for the report, because it's a matter of criminal policy of a particular court and a judge who's found expedient circumstances for someone who's 32 times convicted of being replaced by a prison sentence for the sake of general good. And as for the relapsers, I don't agree with your grade because it's not good to mix pears and apples about these things. Recidivists appear in that case when the Probation Service takes care of those convicts who are on parole. Therefore, this is not about the Probation Service being able to channel it, but rather about the prison system using certain mechanisms of a certain convict letting it go on parole and then the Probation Service oversees it. So multiple convictions, parole and punishment that replaced the prison sentence with the general good work are two completely different things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76313	Ivan Shantek, reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76314	Well, my esteemed colleague, I had no idea that I was accusing the Probation Service. That's what I said, I don't know if you listened very carefully. It is also not the reason why the HDZ Club will be abstention when voting for the adoption of this report because it is such a large number of relapsers, but the HDZ club will be restrained because the report is not complete, it is not current first of all. Because it's coming in 2012 and today it's a quarter of 2014. Therefore, what we expected was that we had two reports, if there was no Report for 2012 in 2013 at least we had two reports in two years so that we could compare whether any progress has been made. There's nothing in the report on the Department of Electronic Control, and we have cases, a large number of cases of domestic violence. That's the problem. So how will the Probation Service that is not equipped, which is not teamed up, control whether someone has approached the victim if there is a restraining order. So, a series of things. The financial part of the two-thirds report is also used for salaries and one-third for help with resociation. So obviously we're missing the 2013 report to see if after this formation the Probation Service has moved forward or stagniers or perhaps standing at a dead end. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76315	On behalf of SDP representative club colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76316	Thank you, Madam Vice President, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club supports the 2012 Probation Service Report. When we talk about the Probation Service Report, then we must inevitably remember the Law on Testing and Purpose and the purposes of the trial itself. We know that our prisons are full and full, that the situation is as stable as most of all by the new Penal Code, thanks to the new Penal Code, its application and, accordingly, to a different criminal-law policy. So, for prison, those perpetrators who committed serious crimes are reserved. Every society just wants to disburse its penological system and we in Croatia are actually inheriting a long period of probation that has been seen with a conditional conviction, and later we have received a parole with protective supervision, but the services have not been equipped in this way, special services that will then follow a conditional conviction with protective supervision but also work for the common good. So we already see that the release of prisons that are going slowly and too slowly but given the number and capacities that have our prisons and how many people are in trial treatment we can say that we are on the right track. That's why all those who talk about probation, and then that's why they don't understand or want to understand, or maybe they're on wings, maybe there's some allegations in the media, and that's why they want to be sounding and setting up a dilemma at all, and I think it's a completely wrong dilemma, whether it's peeling punishment or peeling potatoes? First of all, the sentence of prison and even when it comes to it and when many are involved in the debate and when they speak, and I don't think they speak well, how our criminal legislation is mild, how individual penalties for certain crimes are prevented from fines. Only China, North Korea and Texas have criminal legislation that is more severe than our criminal legislation. But what many have already mentioned is that we still can and must still work to prevent every type of crime, especially the most dangerous one associated with organised crime and corruption. What's best at preventing any crime? And that's quick detection and quick processing. Everyone who works in practice already knows that, and the theory is uniform. So, the punishment that comes late, she can't actually get that special prevention or the general prevention. Because he who is the perpetrator of the crime always hopes he will not be revealed. That society that suppresses such perpetrators' hopes has taken away from them such hope that they will not be revealed. It's the best form of prevention. Therefore, on the other hand, we must see in our own legislation and the Penal Code, he is also in amendments, to see really for certain crimes, for the most deadly thing to be done here. However, before I say something more concrete, and I am saying about the report itself that we could at all metrically discuss this in public, then let us remind ourselves, as already said by a respected deputy, that probation is one conditioned and supervised freedom of the perpetrators who perform the services just to reduce the risk of committing a crime. Probation services only do what the judicial authority has already done. To consider here and so to attack and so to take the right of yourself, as some say on behalf of the club, irresponsiblely and populistly, means to demean their own state or their own judicial authority. No authority that is sure of itself is afraid to give its judiciary broad authority. Well, that's how we did it in the Penal Code. We put a wide diapazone first of all a kind of punishment, and then also the possibility of selecting the weight of the penalty or the length of the penalty. Chapter 4 in our Penal Code speaks of types of punishment. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is important to know that the work for the common good should be known by those who debate so confidently and in the speech it is incorrect that the work for the common good can be expressed as a substitute for prison sentences or fines, which are fined by the prison, only by one year. It is also a unanimous assessment of and practices and theories that short-term prison sentences, which are up to the year, some systems consider them even up to three years and especially up to the year cannot be carried out in a penal, closed system, all those purposes of punishment cannot be executed, the special and general prevention of which Article 41 speaks. A criminal law which says precisely that the purpose of punishment is not revenge but is a social condemnation, and ultimately, except by mentioning that special and general prevention, the article 41 specifically speaks of strengthening citizens' trust in the legal system based on the rule of law. And it also mentions exactly how the execution of punishment is intended to affect the perpetrator of criminal acts, so to all others, that they do not commit crimes, so they are talking about the justice of punishment and not just utilitarianism. Of course, revenge is not mentioned, but it is in some way contained in the very justice of punishment and in the social condemnation of such behavior. Work for the common good, which is referred to in Article 55. The penal code, so I repeat, can be pronounced, the court can only sentence him if he has sentenced the prison to one year or a fine. We also see only with the consent of such a convict. There was also something mentioned here that I think, and this opportunity should be said and it should be obvious. Our criminal legislation with a prison sentence or with a conditional sentence may impose specific obligations under Article 62. The Penal Code should certainly mention Article 64 of the Protection Control Act. Chapter 5 speaks of security measures that can be imposed at the time of imprisonment and with conditional conviction, mandatory psychiatric treatment, mandatory treatment of addiction, mandatory psychosocial treatments, then ban visits to certain places, association with certain persons, etc. However, what is particularly important and what is quite sensitive to the public is to the application of Article 71 of the Penal Code. The prohibition to perform a specific duty or activity. These duties are not only cashiers in companies but also officials as defined by our Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. Therefore, what we had the opportunity to read in public a few days ago is not true that here and the politician cannot give the measure of banning the performance of duties or activities in time from one to ten years as the law says if the perpetrator has done the work just by performing such a duty or activity. And another note that it, that such a ban on the performance of duties or activities is not included in the detention or in the prison sentence. So only when it is finished, when the execution of a sentence or some other measure is almost then does this ban start to count. Therefore, by carefully reading the Penal Code and its provisions, we would avoid the different debates that lead to not only doubting our criminal legislation but then risking to further confuse our public and to unfocus it in those legal values that we have chosen and politics is being determined exactly and proposed and passed certain laws. I have already said something in the opening and given how gradually and reduced the number of prisoners, the number of persons in the trial treatment and courts who recognise this measure and with more certainty, given that it will be monitored through the Probation Service which is well-formed in the Ministry of Justice speak precisely in one success and on one track and is recommended by the council, the EU Minister for Prison Penitentiary should, to a greater extent, replace them with a different way of reacting to the perpetrators and thus achieve an equal purpose. What I also find equally important is also mentioned in the report itself, and how important it is that the Deputy Minister himself said that when she pointed out in particular how much one treatment and how much such testing cannot depend solely on the involvement of officials and persons working in the treatment of the Ministry of Justice or who are dislocated by certain county centres or cities that are designated to cover certain responsibilities of municipal and county courts, how important this relationship is with others in the community, with other public services in the community, with schools, with the Employment Office, so it is particularly worth this fact that she pointed out how many people who have engaged, which people in this treatment, saw both the value of work and the possibility that employment where they were just and through the Probation Service and the Institute were able to hire. So, it is here that we are less critical of what the Fate Authority is doing, and more what we can do, first as proposings as the Executive Authority, and we here as legislators to prevent these acts, criminal acts, to make them as little as possible, that whoever committed the crime, I say, loses any hope that they will not be revealed, only in such a way we will be able to speak and that our criminal legal policy makes sense because only an increase in punishment and prison will not lead to the desired result. Perhaps just one little cartoon from ancient history when it was for theft and when decisions were made in public places, long ago, perhaps in the middle of the Middle Ages where... the penalty of cutting off arms, when they were known body sentences, however, just as one would, while such punishment would be executed, was the most theft and pocketing. So, quick detection, quick reaction and support to this kind of one way that short-term penalties, not to burden our penalty system, I think we're on a good track. The SDP Club, I repeat again, supports the 2012 Probation Service report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76317	Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76318	... Madam Vice President. Comrade Anticevic, you said the prisons are full and indeed they are, somewhere our prisons currently have about 5,000 prisoners, even something more, so 1.7 times more prisoners than capacity. I will just remind myself, in 2004, some decisions were set and made that two new prisons would be built, they were designated even locations, here it is in 2014, so in 10 years this Croatian state was unable to build, not one, let alone two prisons. So, what do I mean by that? We are exposed to criticism and judgments by the European Court of Human Rights clearly indicate that our prisons are no longer places of humanity and standards. The probation system absolutely needs to be supported, but with this kind of approach to this particular crime and prison, it will also take us many, many years to develop this probationary system, to relieve the prisons at least when it comes to the perpetrators of minor crimes, because this way will definitely create a pretty big nightmare in the coming years, and with the number of prisoners who will certainly grow, and with such a Probation Service if we don't strengthen it, there will definitely be a big nightmare in this criminal justice system.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76319	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76320	Well, in a good part, I can agree with you even though we finished our first term in 2003 with the assessment of international institutions that our prison pension system served as an example to transition countries, that was the end of 2003. I think the wrong criminal justice policy that had its sightings in the amendments to the Penal Code where the barbaric crimes and binary crimes were found, or social behaviors were found as criminal acts, and that is exactly what burdened our prison system the most. Of course the new buildings, they don't only need new buildings, they need a new approach, we see that, and I think he's coming across your support. Surely, what I mentioned in my debate through parole, but which was pronounced in protective custody, the courts have little use of it, now that they have a guarantee that it is supervised freedom, that it will then be more courageous, and this report shows. And let's just remember that in our prisons, so we need to make work possible, which we have been since 2000 and introduced because in the 1990s we had a terrible situation. The Constitution changed, forced labor was banned, but then someone so wise felt that no one, that she or the prisoners, if they didn't want to work. Although work is the best therapy for those open who... punish, or any measure outside, and especially those who are inside and especially for long-term prison sentences.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76321	On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, colleague Marijan Skvaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76322	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, respected deputy ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. This report, which we are discussing today, on the work of the Probation Service for 2012 is the first full report on the work of the Probation Service. Because that's in '12. the year and after the entry into force of the law has executed practically all 11 offices, i.e.... 12, and it's not essentially formed just... in Dubrovnik. But what I would like to point out is that probational jobs are under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice and for such activities carried out from the delirious sector, the following construction units are set up for testing, primarily the Central Office and the Office for Co-ordination of Development of the Croatian System and the Prosecution Office. This report is quite comprehensive, primarily contains... the work of experimental offices, the basic statistical indicators, the execution of probationary jobs, the display of trends, the growth, or the fall of certain types of objects as well as some characteristics of persons involved in the trial. And every report is given to see first and foremost what has been done, and every report must provide guidance in the next term, period and second report, which is best done. If I were to point out, above all, that, although it is a relatively young system that has been developing intensively over the last few years, the Probation Services in 2012 can really say, with great praise and determination that they have been very successful, and we can see it from the data itself. 1571 new items were received, 1261 items were completed almost 82% successfully, which means that the convict had fully done the work for the general good. And when we compare the number of employees per probationary office compared to the number of cases carried out, we can say that practically 18 people involved in the employee sampling system were done. It's very much about all these activities that have to be carried out. When we include 183 thousand hours of community service, it's some kind of benefit and some kind of installation into the development and activities of society itself. And agreed and signed co-operation with the new 111 new legal entities to perform their work on the common good. It is also important that an implementation of the digestive information system is made. Compared to 2011 when 1067 cases of probation were received with protective supervision and work for the general good in 2012 the spectrum of business was expanded by the law of the Probation Service. So the offices began to carry out other legally prescribed probational tasks, such as parole, termination of prison sentences, obligations to resolve a state attorney, execution of victims of criminal offences. Taking into account all of the above, we can say that compared to 2011 there was an increase in the number of cases by... percent. Out of the total number of convictions received, the conditional convictions were protected, and they were expressed in 20%, and the work for the general good was made in relation to 965 convictions, which accounts for 80%. Now that we have little analysis of which during that year, 220 cases and 83% have been successfully realised and 27% have not been successfully realised. The reasons for this... execution are in 20% a solution has been adopted in which the execution of sanctions is suspended due to the past time of verification or the time in which the work for the general good should be carried out. In 30% 1/3, a solution has been made to determine the execution of a prison sentence, and nearly 50% of these cases have gone out of date and have not been handled. ... we're stressing that it's a cancer of the wounds of our entire judiciary that the cases go out of date,...it should certainly be further done. If we compare further data on the state of the case for 2012 with previous year's data, we see that the total number of subjects in the work from 860 in 2011 increased to 2059 compared to the end of 2012, this is a major increase. There you would particularly mention the Probation Office in Varazdin which out of 109 objects in the paper carried out 103 means 95% of the realization almost entirely. According to data, the Probation Service received the largest number of cases from the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb, then from the Municipal Court in Rijeka and also from the Municipal Court in Split. During the year 2012, where the conduct of the case of probation supervision and the case of notification of the release of convicts for the execution of the sentence of imprisonment is carried out, as well as the making of a report to the court when deciding on the suspension of the sentence of imprisonment or the amount of benefit. Accordingly, for the first time as applicants in courts and state attorneys, penitentiary offices and prisons shall appear, as well as the Commission for parole. So we have received items from the Penitentiary Lepoglava, Lipovice by 26 items, and from the Penitentiary Požega 43 objects. Of the total number of subjects received in 2012... percent refers to male and 8% to female subjects and is mostly between 26 and 30 years for one and the other sex. Well, we think that in that part of the women's sex, 8% is good, because we certainly need to make sure that performing probation work is very competent and well for both women and of course for men's sex. Also, of the total number of persons for whom cases were received, 36% were prior sentences once or more, until 965 and 61% respectively, respectively. Yes, it has already been pointed out here that we have an example that we have several perpetrators, or... that he has already been punished 32 times for various crimes. But it would be good to note, however, what various crimes they are. Surely it's not more serious crimes that he... could come into that system. The largest number of cases received in 2012 relate to perpetrators of criminal offences against property, then to crimes against freedom and human rights, and to crimes against the general security of people and property of security and crimes against life and the body. It is evident from the data that a large category of convicts are the perpetrators of domestic violence sanctioned by the provisions of criminal and domestic law. If we compare the data on criminal offences with those in 2011 in this report, it is evident that sampling through the conduct of parole supervision activities has also begun to work with the perpetrators of truly serious criminal offences. In 2012, the office received 50 cases in which the perpetrators committed a crime of murder, serious murder, murder at the scene. Furthermore, as compared to 2011, cases in which the perpetrators committed a rape, a war crime against the civilian population were also admitted. I would specifically point out here that probation officials are also working with the perpetrators of the most serious crimes for which long-term prison sentences have been prevented. Then there's one problem, which is that the legal status of probation officials in this case are not adequately evaluated. Namely, they are not even with the Judicial Police, and what is stated here is really practically doing similar work or the same job. They have almost the same complex working conditions, and they have no benefits, unlike the Judicial Police, there are benefits, for example. supplementing working conditions up to 25% and the benefits of a well-favoured work experience. Probation officials only have the addition to days of service. Also, the same thing as being said here is that all these people must be controlled must be on the ground and for this there is certainly no material conditions. First of all, it's cars that they can control. And when looking at this financial report in that part of 10 million kuna, how realistically cost the work of the trial offices in Croatia to give each trial office, 12 of them still get one car and first of all would improve the work and status of probation officials and certainly much more could raise this part of the activity to a higher level of implementation of the digestive system itself. And really no matter what they said about the car, those cars were a means of work and they would really serve for what I said. There is another problem that I would point out, and that is that the judgments which have been issued for the general good on the loose can be carried out with legal persons with whom a contract for the execution of work for the general good has been concluded. And that's the authorities of local self-government, but also bodies and public authorities with which no contract is necessary. We have here a sign that nearly 700 contracts have been signed in the entire territory of Croatia and that's good. So there really is one space where everyone can find a place where they can do part of the probational service. The criteria that serve to establish cooperation with institutions and other legal persons are the activity of which legal persons are engaged and which must benefit the social community. This may be humanitarian, ecological, communal, or other similar general useful activity. But here's what it is that some legal people don't want to accept individuals regardless of the contract they signed. Also, some people do not want to determine where they live but rather want to be in some other area. And here's the case, too, that some fellow mayors, the mayors don't want some people to, regardless of the same signed contracts that they have with them to handle the digestive system. And there is no sanction for such conduct. In particular, I would like to highlight the problem of certain national minorities where such individuals can find some of their own space of conduct for trial cases. And there maybe I should see if you already sign a contract that doesn't have the right to maybe choose than if someone's already passed a lot of checks in that section to carry out that part of the activity. Of course, the digestive system experienced many changes in 2011, in '12, so here's '13. When we get the report, I'm sure he'll bring more cases to the probation offices, given that all prison sentences of 6 months will be changed... Work for the common good and extend the possibilities of punishment to one year in prison. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then we said this report must serve for a certain message, for a certain position to go on. And how this report fully confirms the purpose of testing with a special emphasis that this is primarily humanisation of the enforcement of criminal sanctions and more effective resociation and integration of perpetrators into the social community. It is also intended to be conducted to protect the social community from the perpetrators of the crime in such a way as not to separate it from the middle by closing it in prison, but to resociate it in the community. And of course, and third but no less important, to encourage the imposition of sanctions that occur in the community, thus reducing prison sentences and the number of convicts in prisons. The prison system is very expensive compared to the trial and in practice it has been shown that short-term prison sentences are not the best solution. Here is the report, based on this conclusion and me as mayor of the city of Lepoglava where I have signed a contract, where a large number of people were involved in the trial system that we believe together successfully. The HNS Club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76323	Hansel Mandic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76324	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear counterpart Skvaric, you are the head of a local self-government unit that signed for conditional supervisory freedom. The question I would say is that there is still an insufficient number of local self-government units to say not all cities that should have the opportunity to try in a more humane way to help the justice system of the Republic of Croatia use penalties. What I would like to ask my colleague, given that he has experience in control and what effects are on the quality of the trial, given that these persons for whom the justice system of the Republic of Croatia is brought are able to support their punishment in this way. That with your experience, you might encourage other units of local self-government to sign with the Probation Service and their signatures on the possibility of adhering to punishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76325	Marijan Škurić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76326	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Yes, I really agree, above all all all all, the mayors should sign contracts with the probation service, or offices, to allow for the determination of testing in our area. On the other hand, you said to do a service to the ministry, not to do service to the ministry, to do first of all a service to those people that what I said above all about resociating and active inclusion and afterwards in the normal work of society, means you need to help people. And the experience of what I can really say is extremely positive because on the one hand it uses for these people to engage in normal working procedures. And these people, these people, they've been very isolated in that part, they haven't actively involved in social work, and it's very helpful. And not to mention that even in the work itself, we were primarily involved in the municipal work in our city, and they certainly brought a lot of positive results and benefits for everyone. So we have positive results for everything and controls are very good and successful, which you asked, because also officials, I have to commend them again from the area... We heard practically a week, a day and all of those checks that were defined and from our professional services we led to the fact that virtually all the people who came into the digestive system and did it successfully and successfully. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76327	Hope Murganic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76328	Thank you, Vice President. I would not really agree with Škurić in one part of your discussion concerning this, I am sorry if I am now perhaps going to say it wrong, where you think that you should in some way impose sanctions or penalties on those representatives of legal persons who choose conditionally, who will come to them for the service of that sentence. I know what I'm saying because I'm a representative of the legal person who signed a contract with the Ministry of Justice in 2003 and indeed personally and the institution from which I come supports this probation system, but I don't think probation is something that needs to be met at all costs by those who need to serve their sentence. In fact, we should work together to develop an individual implementation programme, and we who are partners in the implementation of this probationary system. I think it may be inappropriate for an institution, an institution, to have someone who is prone to it, and we know that we have a lot of relapses, let's say for thefts if it's an open-source facility because we're responsible and to protect the tight community in which this trial program is conducted. So I think we should work together on this implementation program with probation officials and I think there are a lot of different legal entities, different jobs where everyone can find their place.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76329	Marijan Škurić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76330	Thank you, Vice President. Well, first of all, I'd like to point out if someone made a deal with someone in that section, then the contract stands, it's one general legal... act, that you act on it. Now, the sanctions I've said may have to be the termination of the contract, not some kind of harsh sanctions. But... you said well that when you still do an individual sampling program for each individual person and believe me that you are doing a very detailed check of each person and the sequence of activities that can be carried out within the probationary system and then in that part, and I can really say it from a specific case, and it can certainly be found that one person... can do his probation. I agree that heavy killers or rapists can't go to kindergarten or anywhere... but it can't happen because I really believe in the system and a detailed check is very important. If someone signs a contract and when it comes to the moment of acceptance of such a person, it's minimal to respect that contract. I'm going to point out once again, much of the problem that some people don't want to be admitted is from certain national minorities, and then there's really no excuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76331	Thank you, Vice President. Well, first of all, I'd like to point out if someone made a deal with someone in that section, then the contract stands, it's one general legal... act, that you act on it. Now, the sanctions I've said may have to be the termination of the contract, not some kind of harsh sanctions. But... you said well that when you still do an individual sampling program for each individual person and believe me that you are doing a very detailed check of each person and the sequence of activities that can be carried out within the probationary system and then in that part, and I can really say it from a specific case, and it can certainly be found that one person... can do his probation. I agree that heavy killers or rapists can't go to kindergarten or anywhere... but it can't happen because I really believe in the system and a detailed check is very important. If someone signs a contract and when it comes to the moment of acceptance of such a person, it's minimal to respect that contract. I'm going to point out once again, much of the problem that some people don't want to be admitted is from certain national minorities, and then there's really no excuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76332	My colleagues and colleagues, Deputy Minister of Justice. We at the SDSS Club have an extremely positive relationship and a positive attitude towards the digestive system and a complete concept of probation or supervised or controlled freedom in the execution of certain sanctions. That's what we said when we talked in the debate when the probation law was passed. Then we also had some suggestions that I would say about later, and then we pointed to the advantages of that trial system. So in this form as defined by the Law on Testing Experience are very short, only a year and a few days, but this is not a novelty. A conditional conviction with protective supervision as a sanction in something different was also prescribed by the provisions of the Criminal Code SFRY '76. A year. I am saying this because these provisions and are implemented or taken over into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia and sanctions have been detained and improved, and the '97 Penal Code. the year of a replacement for a prison sentence and it was a work for the common good on the loose. '99. The Law on the exercise of protective supervision and work for the general good was adopted and the implementation of sanctions was supervised by the Commissioners outside of their working hours. So the Prosecution Act... was passed, the trial in our system was defined by law the first time in 2009 and followed by the adoption of five sublegal acts which created the preconditions for the functioning of the digestive system. The system is seen from reports under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice, organised in a sectoral manner and we have 12 local testing offices in the Republic of Croatia. They started to open last year, so I'm saying that the experience of this form of probation in this legal model is very short for us and then we can't really expect to make some big spectacular results here. We are, in any case, for several reasons, supporting this system, doing these probation work for the protection of the social community, first of all, from the perpetrators in a way that these perpetrators are not separated from the middle by closing them in prison, but are trying to resociate them in the community itself. In fact, this is about reintegration in the community through the impact on those risk factors that have led to the committing of a crime. For example. is about drug addiction, alcohol, communication and the like. Therefore, that is the essence of this trial for us. In addition, the digestive system reduces prison sentences and reduces the number of prison convicts. The fact is that the prison system is very expensive, much more expensive than probation, and practice has shown that short-term prison sentences are always not the best solution. In addition, we think it is a good syntagm that people with mild convictions should be given a second chance in life, that they should continue to stay in their natural environment, family and school, in their workplace. So they're trying to resocialize, but of course under expert supervision and with the expertise of the system itself. And then that's the purpose of the trial. The work itself, therefore, of working for the general good on the loose is organized in a way that contracts are concluded and that is the basis of the trial system. Therefore, contracts are concluded with legal persons whose activity is exclusively of humanitarian, municipal or ecological importance. This is most often about utility companies, homes for older and powerless persons, popular cuisine, shelters for homeless people, etc. etc. That's why we have these cases from practice that exactly work for the general good is happening in these institutions. In the case of protective surveillance, he shall cooperate with all relevant bodies involved in the performance of specific obligations such as psychiatric clinics, such as clubs of treated alcoholics, associations conducted by the treatment of bullies, etc. etc. These are all the essential components of the digestive system. We also think that it's a very important thing and it's classified, it appears here in this series of these actions, there's also a professional person who needs to help a man resist the numerous harmful temptations he faces in supporting the trial period. He then successfully copes with life’s difficulties at the stage and with his resociation. If that harmony is achieved between us, then the trial has some effect on us. Otherwise, the data suggests that even a third of prison convicts are convicted of minor crimes. It would certainly, therefore, certainly because of the character of condemnation easier crimes would be for their good conduct released on parole and during that time he would be some sort of, therefore offered some kind of probational model. So the very logic of it all says that this trial model should exist because it is socially more acceptable and because it is in any case much more economical for society. We even suggested when it came to the Prosecution Act, we had a proposal that the law should, that the law should provide for a solution to be implemented except in the system, so that employees in the sector do so, and external co-workers do so. And that would, we thought we should have the character of so-called. Commissioner. Of course, they should be given a certain fee so people don't do it for nothing. These commissioners should be respected members of the community in which the probation is carried out. They should be specially educated or educated in the work that they would accept. In this way, they would get another additional dimension, in order to somehow involve society in the resociation of these people, and in addition to that, they would disburse the entire system financially with the introduction of these external co-workers. Otherwise some data suggests that, in 2012, the Council of Europe gave a very interesting report and estimated that Croatian prisons were overcrowded, it is necessary to improve them in this report. We have to work on that thing, too. And then when we know that these prisons are overcrowded, and we know that they need to be improved in the treatment, that is, the quality of the punishment in our prison system again, this digestive system gets, so some sort of logic. Some positive examples say that, out of practice, so far, a dozen people who have worked for the greater good since the execution of sanctions have received an offer for employment in the places where they worked, as they have proved to be quality workers. So they were working in the trial system, they volunteered somewhere and they showed up as good and they got an offer to continue to work professionally. Some of the convicts at the end of the sanctions remained volunteers in associations, and some convicts also received special commendations for certain results, which of course greatly affected their self - confidence and their own vision of their future life. And finally, the data kind of speaks, statistics say that probation reduces relapse in almost three times, which is a very important social category that is a little bit talked about here. The report itself, so these are the reasons why we believe that the digestive system should absolutely exist. In addition, it is a system that has a tradition of many European, developed European legal systems. In some countries such as England, the digestive system has been developing for 150 years and is considered to be an extraordinary legal gain of democratic legal systems which, of course, we should strive for. In this very report that we think is properly done, it also showed the state in a statistical sense. So, nomotechnically, and in fact, the way it is from the distance of experience in the last year and a half. So it was said that there was somewhere around in 2012 in 1571 an object that the Probation Service had put into action. We can see that this is about 235 convictions, conditional convictions with protective supervision and 965 convictions work for the common good on the loose. It's also visible that it's mainly 92% male, and 8% female. But what's worrying is that here, both genders are mainly aged 26 to 30, up to 35. Therefore, it is also an additional argument that the trial is perfected and that it becomes our practice because these young people at the best of their lives need to be brought back to society, they need to be resocialized and given a second chance to live, i.e. to give them a chance to fix their lives. Estonia is a country that has only a million and a half inhabitants, has a highly developed digestive system, and some data say they even have about 350 to 400 people in charge of probation. As far as financial indicators are concerned, it has already been said here that there are extremely limited resources. So this whole system cost us 10 million kuna. Half of this is, of course, the material expenditure of the service itself, which is quite logical, but here it should be said that if we want this digestive system to function as we expect and as it is in the countries of developed legal practice in that matter, then the whole system cannot cost half the cost of one agency. So we have a series of agencies that have significantly higher costs than these costs, 25, 30 million kuna on the rebalancing we saw that certain agencies spend money. The whole system here spends half the cost of one agency. It is quite understandable that if society is not ready to allocate significantly more serious resources, this system will remain at this level. And then we didn't achieve what we wanted to achieve. There have been talks that the system needs to be teamed up, that certain material resources should be provided by certain centres, and in any case they cannot be satisfied at an annual level of 10 million kuna. And finally, I think this system should be defined in a way other than in some material sense and in a criminal-legal sense that convictions can be changed by trial. We cannot allow a whole good idea to fall to three, four suspects under the quotes of a "very discriminatory" verdict, that due to a certain alienation of large funds, large millions of amounts due to corrupt activities then get a fine of up to one year and, of course, the conditions for probation are met. Well, then we also have cases that in the soup kitchen for a year we've been peeling potatoes, and it's about embezzlement of big state money. We also have a case of certain individuals who are generals who are convicted of alienation, who have escaped more than 3 million kunas, and who support a probationary sentence to work for the greater good for up to a year. We have cases from the system, from the police system where certain individuals are convicted of falsifying their college diplomas, and then, in a trial of all the expensive work, they return it to society through a few months of probation work. So these are the negative sides, the negative consequences of all of this. It is not good for a whole good idea and a useful judicial instrument to be questioned by such judgments that are more of an aferian character than formal-legal weight. Anyway, we accept this report, and we think it's on its way to improve this system.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76333	Thank you. We have one replica, Nada Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76334	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to ask you to explain this to me because we seem to be on track for the same thinking, if we are, and therefore I do, when you mentioned that it would be good if there were even more Commissioners on the ground who would play a role in controlling the execution and work for the general good or in general everything that is covered by the digestive system. Is this thinking about what we think we don't have enough probation officers, is it because they may be concentrated in central offices, and we have experience that there are fewer in the field, or in those places where those penalties are being carried out, or in those places where some of these were happening? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76335	Thank you, too. Answer, colleague Horvath.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76336	Dear colleagues, in any case, we think that through the Institute of External Associates, the system would be strengthened. Of course we're at the beginning and we're not teaming up. And that is why the system should not be tolerated, through this model of external partners of prominent citizens, educated citizens in this sense would get a lot of quality in the whole trial system and the state would be relieved of certain costs because it is the cheapest model to complete it, or implement it. This is also on the trail, in any case, the opinion of a postgraduate study called probational treatment at the University of Split, which was founded last year, and they therefore consider that this is one of the models that we should go to have in this matter and Commissioners as external associates in the trial system.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76337	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Hope Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76338	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to dedicate part of the debate to the Probation Service or the Probation Officers. I really think that this is a statistical representation of a certain number of subjects together with the data that can be seen from these subjects and, as most of my colleagues in my club, we think that the report is in a way half-way. It's half of why we'd like to have more explanations, some comments, something that would talk about what problems and difficulties this service has in its work, especially the probation officers, because yet the field announcements say that there are problems, of course, in every service and so on, but I think they should be written about them and spoken and suggested how it is possible to solve them. The more we see from the statistics that the number of objects really increased rapidly in eight years, we have a number of over 6320 objects. I read somewhere that in 2013 the number of items that will be covered through the Probation Service is twice as high as in 2012 and what is also good is that the number of legal entities with which the contracts for the increase are being concluded is also increasing, for the implementation of these probationary transactions. But there is always some but this one, but it concerns my question whether or not the development of the Probation Service in professional and humane terms, and followed this expansion of the subject. In particular, in public, this work for the general good has been accepted or not accepted, but it is recognizable, it is well spoken of and the public is expected that this work for the common good is indeed a punishment and that this punishment is supervised. All that I'm going to say about probation officials would like it to be known right away that it's not a criticism at all but because I appreciate the work of these people and I think that the responsibility for implementing this trial system is the most on them. And in this report we have nothing on them, we don't know how many there are, what profiles they are. It is said that the trial is a modern, one model of modern, responsible, professional supervision and reaction of society to the perpetrators of the crime and at all to the committing of a crime and I think that the emphasis here is precisely on responsibility, the emphasis is precisely on expertise and the emphasis is on supervision because the aim is to try prevention, prevention of possibly some perpetrators who are not so far and the aim is to reduce relapse. This report itself tells us that the percentage of relapses are quite large, perhaps not some piece of work but a worrying but then a trial or a work for the general good that is most often mentioned here and the benefits have no purpose. It is also worrying about the percentage of non-execution or unprocessed objects, 81% of which are non-processed percentages of 49% refer to statutes. Is it really a statute of limitations because we don't have enough personnel to carry out and control the trial? I personally think that the work of probation officials is extremely responsible and difficult. It is difficult because the aim of the trial is to resocialize and reintegration. Probation officials work with clients who are burdened with terrible problems of indifference, addiction, psychophysical disease and many things, and also risk factors are exactly the same type and the probation officer should be constantly on the ground and work on accepting the perpetrators of the crime in the middle in which he returns and who has really not changed in much of his return. The more difficult it is for them that institutions that work together are also under the capacitated with the staff, even the Ombudsman for children commented on the poor co-operation in his report that last time we had the opportunity to comment on some of us, poor cooperation with in some cases with the Probation Service. And what we were saying about legal entities. I think that precisely because we have received good support on the ground and understanding of legal entities because they have accepted cooperation with the Ministry of Justice in the implementation of these probationary measures we have in some way the expansion of this service and enables the perpetrators of the crime to, on the loose, at the supervised repeat of the freedom of this serve and their sentence. But legal entities are just legal entities, and they also need education, they need help and they need supervision. We need to know that supervision of them cannot work well in welfare institutions or cooks in the soup kitchens and that they very often come with a negative attitude in... and consider, in a way, projecting the guilt that representatives of legal persons who serve the penalty for their dissatisfaction, or for being here. So, I think even with the individual implementation program that I was talking about, and later the probation officer should be more physically present. Physically more present for the reason that phone controls or calls in offices are not enough control, this is not, I repeat to colleagues who are similar professions, these are mostly social workers, psychologists and others, criticism than the fact that I think there are not enough of them, and that we should be physically present on the ground because we introduced the trial to deinstitutionalize the legal system, we said that it is not necessary to serve everything in punishments, we did, we introduced a trial because it is really cheaper and more humane and modern and more modern, it is an approach to serving punishment, but because something cheaper, it does not mean that we should not invest in it because to that extent we will bagatelise that we will have a lot of damage and a lot more unsightful consequences. So, yes, I am for the development of the probationary system, but that there is still a lot to work on, and as far as the report is concerned, I would like it to be so from the professional services here to us through that report or presented as if it were how I am now repeating and asking a question or to be denied. Probably the deputy, perhaps in her answer to some of my dilemmas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76339	Thank you. We have one replica, Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76340	Dear counterpart Murganić, you said at the very end of your debate, yes, I am for the digestive system, and I think in all the debates so far, all the MPs have said that they are very supportive of the digestive system and I agree with you, in this digestive system that is cheaper than the other criminal system should be invested. It should be possible for it to work, not to have a formal probationary system, to expose those who work in that trial system, first of all, to be uncomfortable that they can't do what they're trained and professional, secondly because sometimes they shouldn't be protected, protected, and everything that we've said before in the debate, that everything doesn't turn into one formality, and also those who need to be in a system of socially useful work that they don't actually need to be fulfilled because they're not being controlled, and in this way they can avoid the fine they deserve or that punishment actually when they've been seen through their fingers because they're in a disproportionate proportion of the weight of punishment they've received and the crime they've committed. So if they don't do community service, then we're a state without justice and order.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76341	Thank you. Answer, colleague Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76342	Comrade Vuksic, this is exactly what I wanted, I don't know if I was able to emphasize from this debate that you were talking about. I'm kind of worried about when we start saying that we're introducing an alternative system because it's cheaper and then we think that we don't have to invest in it anymore and I repeat it's a completely wrong approach, I think it's hard for the officers, I think it's hard to do this to the legal entities, that there should be more exchange and experience and knowledge and education, but also control that you're talking about. All central offices are centralized in large cities, serving fines is happening somewhere far out there in the field all over Croatia, there are some sort of misdemeanors and I think the task of probationary officials or commissioners, as was said here as an idea, is to be as much present on the ground as possible. Not to say that lately, professional workers in all segments have been burdened with administration and that much of their work, work hours, are spent in the office. More professional personnel, various profiles that will be really present, not only control but also prevent and feel that the victim is also protected because it is controlled, that the social community is protected. Because I repeat, in one institution of social care, the arrival of such a criminal, reportedly, calls for one look and comment, and I think it's one really sensitive job where we all have a lot of room to work on and I repeat, this report should have given signs about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76343	Thank you. We continue the debate, Boris Blazekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76344	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Deputy Minister. The 2012 Probation Service report sets out the conditions, analysis, structure and statistics on the work of the Probation Service in 2012. The trial is a conditioned and supervised freedom of the perpetrators of the crime. During the trial... the service in cooperation with the community works to protect society from return... through rehabilitation and reintegration of perpetrators of criminal acts into society, respecting the rights and needs of the victim. The state was created by a social contract where we individuals gave up some of our freedoms and we transferred certain jobs to the state that it does for us. One of the most important jobs the state does for its citizens is trial. The state, through an independent judiciary, resolves citizens' disputes through a repressive judicial system, punishes evil and protects good. Crime in any form is evil. Fighting good and evil is an eternal struggle. Crime or evil and the fight against evil is the greatest part of all world literature. Among other things, they speak of Sophoklo and Shakespeare, Goethe in Faust, Tommas Mann in Doctor Faustus, Dostoyevsky in Crime and Penalty or Brothers Karamazova, Jean-Paul Sartre in the Devil and Good God, Milan Kundera in the Book of Laughs and forgetfulness. It's about evil in its own way. It's about Freud. A special judge of evil was dedicated to modern philosopher Terry Eagleton. It all turns out that evil to a man is immeasurable but the fight against evil is even more important. A man in a community can't live in evil without fighting evil, and good always wins in the end. Evil doesn't pay off. It is important to talk publicly about good and evil, it is important to speak competently about the right things and the constant values that make man a noble, thoughtless being. Society in general should not accept flat-rate, sensational, populist, demagogue debates and assessments of good and evil. Otherwise, this leads to the devastation of the real values, the constant real values that must be pillars of our existence, and on which each individual or individual must always be able to rely. The development of civilizations and especially so-called "Civilities". Western civilizations, man has developed and developed a system of defenses against evil, crime, institutes of punishment. Penology around punishment has developed to the height of the scientific system in order to punish the perpetrators of a crime fairly and properly and justly and satisfactorily and satisfactorily. By all accounts, punishment should not be retribution. The sentence shall contain elements of punishment, warnings, prevention and general message. In the execution of the sentence, and the execution of the sentence is the procedure it must contain all elements, tools for the resociation of the perpetrators, but also all curative measures against the victim. The process must include both the victim's family and the perpetrator's family. I am one of those who believe that the position of the victim is crucial and that both laws and procedures must adapt to the protection of the victims, not theoretically legal in the proper procedure, clearly with the satisfaction of all human and actual rights of the perpetrators. The perpetrators of criminal offences after becoming convicts and, in particular, with prison sentences in the course of the execution of the sentence, must be treated professionally and in order to re-integration into society after the execution of the sentence. It is important to say that every verdict and message, a message condemned to the convicted, the victim and the general community. The basic or final message must be that the penalty is right and fair and ultimately that crime, crime, evil is not paid and that it will always be sanctioned by the court on behalf of the citizens. In modern modern countries there are numerous crimes that should be sanctioned and where only a reminder or a fine is not enough, and the prison sentence is not necessary and therefore it is good that there is an institute of probation in Croatia. It has already been said that probation is a conditioned and supervised freedom of perpetrators of crime. Based on the report in question on the work of the Probation Service, it is certain that the Probation Service in Croatia is well developed and that it is properly distributed throughout the county centres. The so-placed work of the Probation Service is the assumption of its effectiveness. Prosecution offices shall carry out tasks related to the assessment of criminal risks and the treatment needs of the perpetrators, the establishment of an individual programme of conduct, the supervision of the resolution of obligations towards the resolution of a state lawyer when deciding on criminal prosecution according to the principle of purpose, the procedures for the execution of a conditional sentence with protective supervision and work for the general good at large, the supervision of the enforcement of precautions, the obligation to report regularly to a particular person or a state body, the supervision of the implementation of measures established by a decision on the determination of an investigative prison in a home, the making of reports to prison or convicts, the supervision of a paroled convict, the development of reports on the perpetrator... of the State Attorney's Office, the court or judge of execution, the organisation of support and assistance of victims of the victim and the family of victims and families of the perpetrators of criminal offences. The rules on the work of general good on freedom may be expressed in legal entities with which a contract is concluded for the performance of work for the general good, local self-government bodies and bodies with public powers which do not require the signing of a contract. The criterion for establishing cooperation with institutions and other legal persons is the activity of legal persons, which must benefit the social community. This may be humanitarian, ecological, communal, or other similar general activities. In the face of evil, crime, the relationship against punishment, the relationship against the victim, the defendant and their families of the state show their degree of development... of social maturity. The proper relationship and work in the trial and the process that connects the state gives stability, and to society and individuals security. The independence of the judiciary is not enough, with mandatory independence there is a need for expertise, competence, high level of knowledge. All of this is established by one of the most important pillars of the state on which citizens as I have already said must be able to rely. In these processes, the fight against good and evil justice is an instrument of the state that represents good, and good is ultimately the safe and free lives of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76345	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Ivica Mandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76346	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Blažekovic, you have touched several important facts in your debate that you have concluded that this is a system that is cheaper than the prison system. What I believe is that this system should certainly be improved year by year to make it as high as possible, more functionally, that communication monitoring should certainly be improved year by year because these experiences we have as the Republic of Croatia are not long and therefore I think that these facts should be paid particular attention. What is also important in this whole trial system, and especially in the judiciary in criminal judgments, acquittals, and judgments if they are not done in a short time, they do not have the satisfaction of the environment as well as of the individual's rights if they are not carried out in time. And I think it should certainly be done here that the judiciary in the proceedings must make decisions that are swift and accurate. Because it can't happen that in judicial proceedings one of the defendants in a six-year process ten times does not come into debate. I think that these things should be sanctioned safely and legally and procedures speeded up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76347	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Blažekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76348	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank my colleague Mandic for the replica, and I agree with everything you said and allow me to read only two sentences that I consider extremely important from my presentation. And that is that independence of the judiciary is not enough with the obligation of independence, it is necessary expertise, competence and high level of knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76349	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76350	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The trial is a conditioned and supervised freedom of the perpetrators of the crime. The probationary service should contribute to the development of a more humane and fairer criminal justice system. The probationary service should also reduce the number of prisoners, which can certainly help solve the problem of overloading prison facilities. The overcrowding of prisons, as we have heard in previous discussions, is a great pain in the judicial system. Today we could hear again that this 2012 Probation Service report is neither complete nor dynamic. This is the first full report of the Probation Service. Let us remember that in 2011, it could not have been complete for reasons because the offices worked for only 6 months, not all were open and the practical report for 2011 was the Commissioner's report. We heard the report wasn't dynamic. I have to admit, I don't understand what a dynamic report means. All reports whether they are Probation Services or any other nature are a set of data on the work done and a set of perceptions where there may be a segment that needs to be improved and where difficulties arise. I believe and therefore, of course, I will support this report that a big job was done in 2012 and that we do not have a 2013 report does not assess the work of the Probation Service for 2012. Because if almost 1600 items were received in 2012, if almost 1300 items were completed and almost 82% of cases were successfully completed, then it was certainly a well done job. In addition to being agreed, it was agreed and signed co-operation with 111 new legal entities and all that in 12 offices. As I outlined in advance one of the goals of a project of a trial system that was worth a million and 200 thousand euros was among other things to reduce the number of prisoners and increase the number of convicted persons who would do their sin instead of in prison for the greater good. The basic purpose of this sanction is to allow convicted persons to enforce their sanctions at large and in favour of the social community. For the state, we'll all agree, much better and more useful that convicts work for the state for free if they get, of course, less punishment than they're in prisons that are overcrowded. Of course, a data that is also not negligible, I think I have the exact information that somewhere around 300 kuna costs a day per prisoner. So, of course, the Probation Service saves money among other things. So that's all the reasons I'm going to support this report. And for an individual debate, I applied primarily for the reason I wanted to put an emphasis on two segments. Both of these segments, we heard a certain argument in this debate, but I must admit that it was largely mixed with the judicial authority, i.e. things were highlighted that certainly do not belong to the probation service but to the question of the judicial authorities. And I think there are some steps that the Justice Department might be able to fix, and now I'm going to say in what way I consider it. In fact, the two things I consider to point out are, it's certainly a major challenge, that's what the Probation Service itself calls it in its report standing in front of the Probation Service, which is parole control jobs. Most often in the debates we heard about work for the general good which is certainly one large segment of the work Probation Service but certainly not the only one. And I dare say, a much more demanding challenge to the Probation Service is precisely that parole control because the fact that the Probation Service started working with the perpetrators of really serious crimes, such as murders, heavy murders and murder at the moment in 2012. There were 50 such cases, rapes of 13 cases, war crimes against the civilian population of 5 cases, and this is about parole, this is not about working for the greater good, nor is it about the criminal policy of our judicial authority. The data that out of the total number of persons involved in the trial are those who were previously punished, which is already pointed out and should be repeated, as many as 30% were previously punished once, 16% twice, 11% three times, 12% four times, and the fact that in 2012, two cases of work for the general good in which the perpetrators were previously punished 32 times for various crimes is a matter of criminal policy of a particular segment of the judicial authority. Indeed, like you, dear colleagues, I am as startled by the fact that the judge in the case finds so many extenuating circumstances that a person who is 32 times punishment instead of a prison sentence or a fine imposes a sanctions on the work for the greater good. What I also want to point out is that it is certainly a fact that we do not need to run from and which is notorous, which is that citizens do not think that working for the common good is something that is a good punishment and it is a matter of perception. Prosecution is certainly good, but also an extremely important perception of citizens. Which contributes to, among other things, the poor perception of citizens, I will mention two cases. These two cases also go to the soul to say so to the judicial authority, not to the Probation Service. I'm not going on about peeling potatoes anymore because this is the most common example of working for the general good when the state is damaged for millions of dollars, so it's estimated that here by peeling potatoes that part can be done, but I'm going to mention one of the most recent cases that is only a few days old, and it's about a defendant who's been charged with the criminal act of public inciting terrorism by attacking military and police stations whose sentence is a prison, imagine for such a serious crime, a prison sentence for a year replaced by the work for the general good with the next explanation of the judge. I'll read a part of that argument. Says the judge, explaining his replacement to the defendant, this way, if this verdict becomes a power of power to contribute to the common good and thus thank the dear God, not to me, but to the dear God in this mercy, for not being a certain prison. Get rid of these things that drive you to this kind of nonsense, go in peace. And that's our destiny rule. Does this have anything to do with Probation Service or criminal policy? I therefore really welcome the thinking that the Minister of Justice pointed out on the Justice Committee, which is that it is considering introducing a catalogue of criminal offences for which the sentence will no longer be replaced by work for the greater good. Call on terrorism, a shameless robbery of budget money, certainly do not fall into crimes that can be replaced, where prison punishment can be replaced by punishment for the common good. So there is no need to tighten the Penal Code because it has a strict enough range to be able to impose adequate punishment, but a catalogue of criminal acts in which it cannot be done anyway. So I appeal that this thinking actually ends with a specific catalog. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76351	Thank you. Your debate caused a lot of replicas. Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76352	Dear colleagues Fabiančić-Krisjanić, I will start with these last words of yours. What I've been saying all along, the judiciary is our greatest pain. Such circusers of judges who are not fit to behave their duty unfortunately have quite a few. It's not a lonely case. Remember Split, remember many of our other cities, many of our judges, those who are circusing at concerts in the chairs, as they say, dancing, who are misbehaving. I was talking about an example where about 8 to 10 prominent Zagreb judges came in the middle of the day for lunch in the city center of Zagreb where at least 1000 people saw them order buttocks and sing. It's a picture and an opportunity for the judiciary, but we don't have the courage to talk about it under an excuse we can't interfere in it, it's not our job, it's our business. And I'd go back to the very beginning where you said you didn't know what it was, if you didn't know what a dynamic report was. Well, the dynamic report is the opposite of this report, the data collection doesn't say anything, it's just statistics. There were supposed to be explanations, comments, perceptions of the problem, which seemed to solve the accumulated problems, which would make the Probation Service work the way it should work to be in the service of what needs to be done. Unfortunately, this report, like many other reports, is a mere collection of data from which nothing can be concluded, so neither does this. Talk to those, probably because it's obvious from your debate that you're in trouble. I'm sure the probation officers will point to your problems and say that one thing is what the report says, and the other is what's really on the ground.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76353	Thank you. Answer, colleague Fabiančić-Kryzanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76354	Thank you very much. I agree with my colleague Vuksic that by discussing the judicial authority, it is certainly not a interference in the judicial authority, and therefore I really hope that we will get a report from the President of the Supreme Court of Croatia very soon on the work of the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia. And that will be the first time I've been directed, the Parliament will then first discuss this report, and we know how much resistance there was that the judicial authority has submitted, or that the President of the Supreme Court is submitting this report. And as for the dynamics of the report, it's a collection of data from which nothing can be concluded. I'm sorry, buddy, I just concluded from that data collection what I was discussing in my debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76355	Thank you, too. Joseph Salapic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76356	Thank you, Vice President, Reverend Representative Fabiančić-Krisan, I would agree with you that this report has its own head and tail. And we discussed it a few more times. This isn't just a trial debate this year, we've had both past and pre-experienced. I support the trial, but I think the problem is if we want a quality probational service and really put it on our feet as it should be, we need to provide financial resources to the Ministry of Justice. We have also seen through the adoption of the state budget, but also through the rebalancing that these funds are shrinking. If there's not enough financial resources, there's not enough quality for any service, and so is this probational one. The second and that is debated, I would still leave it to the courts that in assessing decisions and concrete cases when it comes to replacing prisons with work for the greater good, I would not consider it bad. It may be in some cases like that, but if we're going to look at the global, that's good. And it's not good for us to put people in jail if it's about such acts that can be replaced by work for the greater good. Unfortunately, the perception of the public is, you mentioned that the citizens think they are, that the punishment someone gets for the general good is that it's not fair. Well, you see, it's sad to say that when you get any anonymous application and you end up in any of the media, whether it's printed, whether it's television or electronic media, you're already convicted of going to jail. So I wouldn't agree with that. If we're going to be legalists and if we're going to be honest with ourselves, and we're here to pass laws, courts to carry them out, and we need to be aware that there are certain problems, and these are many legal gaps, so that while I am while someone who is a suspect and in the first degree might legally be convicted, it should wait for this legal path to end, so let's prove it really so. And condemning someone just because he ended up in the front page, and that may be a political background is not fair and just. I support the trial, I think more financial resources should be invested in the service, and it will be much better for everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76357	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76358	A colleague of Salapić, of course, can only be successful with adequate financial resources. Regardless of the budgets, let us not evaluate its success until we see the 2013 report. I remind you that 2012 is the first year of full-time probation service. And as for the assessment of the courts, be assured that I, as a former judge, would never dare, on the basis of the headline in the paper, assess whether anyone should have been found guilty or not. But remember to say that there can be no extenuating circumstances for anyone who has 32 times been punished that after such a past and perseverance in the conduct of criminal acts, the sentence of prison is replaced by work for the greater good, I certainly dare. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76359	Thank you. Hope Murganic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76360	Oh, here's a colleague of mine. I'll still talk about it, but what's the report? I answered the line, and then I'll look back with a few sentences. I don't think it's so crucial now that we agree, whether the report is complete and what we've called it all together. But we all look back at him because he's still an object, he's a part of the agenda. I think it would be useful from this debate if the next report for 2013 answered all these dilemmas and questions that we have raised for the twelfth year. Well, I'd be happy if everything were positive, if everything was superlated. But let's let it say, let's see how these probation officials work, the difficulties they face. Because their work isn't control just for the greater good. They do, and we've seen a lot more. They are present during the criminal proceedings. They're also present at the prison sentence, they're present and clear on parole. In public, this work for the general good is somehow sounded, and indeed because of these, such controversys in the public, it is necessary to speak seriously about it. Whether the probation officer will have contact with the courts, even standing as an obligation to report to the courts, or to the judicial authority. I think it's those who have a picture of what the results are and what the purpose of that punishment is for who committed that act 32 times. So, problems are opening up to them, at least from my point of view how busy these officers are. And that's what they should write about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76361	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Fabiančić-Kryzanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76362	Well, thank you very much. Here is a colleague in what we both agree on, which is that the 2012 Probation Service Report is the point of this agenda, not our expectations in 2013 whether we will be happy to see positive shifts in 2013. And that's what I was talking about in my individual discussion. And as for sounding in public work for the greater good, of course it's sounding. So we're gonna talk about peeling potatoes again? Well, of course it's sounding in public and it echoes in public if someone damages the state's budget for a multimillion-dollar amount of potatoes and then boasts about how many tons of potatoes have peeled to make the public disgust and to wonder what the purpose of that punishment is? That's why I insisted on taking the crime catalogue seriously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76363	Thank you. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76364	Thank you very much. Your colleagues, as an experienced judge, have the right to first determine how much probation we need, but when you talk about these cases, only two of these individual cases that then echo and rightly what you say to the echo in public then question an entire system that is well designed and doing well. Indeed, man cannot believe that the judge who received from the state the greatest role to judge under the law to be declared a prophet on earth and to speak here that only thanks to God can he receive such a measure and walk in peace. We introduced more in 2002 soul-care and... who was such a responsible person when he came to prison he did not end up going in peace, he says, because I was conscious that this would not be understood by the incentive for prisoners not to flee. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But we have a situation here today that many MPs would judge, some judges would be priests. So, no one seems to be in high places, the most responsible to take their own responsibility, but to do other people's business. But the question of perception is also something we need to take care of. And citizens, every citizen, no matter what, citizen, what Article 6 says. Declarations of human rights that everyone has the right to an independent judge. And it's enough that there are several that then the entire system can be compromised. But it is also on the judicial authority, they have mechanisms that they will receive, who will experience promotion in that system, and who they will remove as they cannot meet the high standards of both the Constitution and the laws and expectations of citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76365	Thank you. Drazen Djurovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76366	Thank you. As far as I'm concerned, my colleagues, you're advocating for a firmer application of legislation or for firmer measures of the Penal Code while we've heard from your club that our Penal Code is the most repressive and only more repressive in North Korea, China and Texas. I mean, amazing was thesis. You also referred in your debate on the case of the so-called case. "Commander Shamila" who was sentenced to one year in prison, or conditionally did he do two years out of two hours of that prison sentence by working for the greater good. I think the context of this situation was clear to the entire Croatian public that it was at the level of something that was neither serious nor any danger to Croatian society. That was my impression, and I mean the whole public. So, I don't know what kind of social message we'd send if we sent a likely partially unaccountable man to prison for, say, a year because of one of those videos. I'm not sure that this social message would match the weight of a video taken in homework on a home computer without hiding an identity where it was evident what it was really about. And I just don't know what really bothered you in the verdict? Is it you or others who may have been distracted by the mention of God, or is it something that is not to be mentioned in the courtrooms? Because all other words are clearly to be mentioned. Or is it something that you claim not to be spoken at all in public speech? I will remind you, for example, of a secular state called the United States where this word is certainly mentioned by God both in courtrooms and in life and in presidents and in bills and is no problem at all. I hope that Croatia will not be a problem either.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76367	Thank you. Answer, here are my colleagues Fabiančić-Kriszanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76368	Thank you very much. My colleague Đurovic, I do not advocate stronger measures of the Penal Code. If a particular act has a range of 1 to 10 years and you will agree with me that the social danger of stealing a state budget certainly falls under serious criminal acts, then I certainly am not in favour of giving minimum sentences to prison in such a way that it can be replaced by a punishment for the common good. As for the context of the situation on the criminal act of inciting terrorism that I mentioned here, I have more answers to your replica. First of all, you're saying it wasn't serious and that it was the work of an unaccountable man. It's amazing how you've turned into a judge first, secondly, if it's part of the work of a partially unaccountable man then it really should have been the reason for this man's art, so if he's partially unaccountable then it's both the question and the guilt. And then it's a question of whether it's a release, whether it's a security measure, rather than a replacement of a prison sentence for working for the common good. So much for assessing the facts carried out in the process and the evidence. And as for the mention of God, so I hope fellow Djurovic that you know that every judge in accordance with our positive regulations, we are the ones who bring them here before he enters office to swear an oath in which he says and swears as we have sworn here, and we have not sworn to God here as in America, so they do not swear to God in their oath. Thus, it has nothing to do with God but that the judge must give judgment on the basis of his convictions and the law in the court proceedings because he told the defendant that he should not thank the judge but God for this session.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76369	Thank you. We'll continue the debate, Zdravko Ronko, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76370	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister of Justice. Here I was looking at this, reading this material, and although this report on the work of the Probation Service speaks as one first full report, it is nevertheless the fact that in 2012, some offices worked only six months, some three months, some one month, Dubrovnik or one day, so we will only have the right picture in the 2013 report. In any case, what we have shows is that the introduction of this trial through this sector of yours is a trial of criminal law and probation and one form of social work, and that's an extremely good thing. Why? Because probation is an alternative to prison, this trial and that alternative are actually meant to reduce the risk of re-launching to protect the social community but also to the perpetrator himself from risk factors. And this also shows a special social sensitivity because it takes care of a man who is also instilled in the desire for freedom and who is enabled in this way, so he is free, he is free, he is not out of work, he can do both for himself and for the family and what is particularly important and therefore this social moment is that he remains connected with the family. I've read somewhere these days I think even on your pages this one that somewhere in Croatia is about 4.5 thousand people on jail time and that about 3.5 thousand people in the states have been punished by working for the common good, de facto that would mean the first reduction of the crowd in our prisons but there is no need to forget the great savings that it seems. In fact, in the report you have shown although I repeat the 2012 mole report that there are 183 744 working hours, let's turn it into 22 960, or let's turn 23 thousand working days of socially useful work, which is therefore a direct significant benefit to the social community. So it's on one side. On the other hand, we know that this is also a reduction in the cost of being in prison where the community is one day in prison costing a circus of 300 kuna, which is, in particular, when you calculate 7 million kunas. If we were to sum up community service, if we were to sum up what we didn't have to invest in prison, then it's somewhere level, there you pointed out, somewhere around ten million kunas to cost this office, so he somehow paid himself off and the social community certainly has a reason and invested in the digestive system, and it doesn't need to be saved for sure. So the final trial is a great benefit to the community, family and individual. But maybe here and I've been listening to all these discussions, maybe it's an occasion and this time, and I'll point out that there's still a need to find an optimal relationship between the maintenance of a prison sentence and a trial because it's not fair for example to boast and recklessly say, under quotes, I'm paraphrasing a child-faced killer co-responsible for only one part of the blackout of 30 million kuna, for such an act eating 730 hours of peeling potatoes. One newspaper calculated that his one hour was 36 thousand and 712 kuna, so one of his watches was worth so much and the community was one kilo of his peeled potato 6 700 kuna. And then in the end you have that horny urbia et orbi honestly I did my punishment, I defiled my sin, my conscience is pure. I think this would be appropriate to say about the future and the future, and if this isn't directly related to the trial, but the trial is caused by these sanctions that aren't good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76371	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Branko Vuksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76372	Dear colleague Ronko, now this last part will ease my line on your first part because you said yes, you were talking about a special social sensitivity to offenders or criminals. What about special social sensitivity to victims? That seems to be where we often lose sight of our victims. What about the perception of the victim's justice? We cry so much over the fates of those who committed a crime or committed a crime, little when we remember the victims, when we discuss it. How sensitive are we to those over whom the crime was committed? Now, you were just saying, the man who had blacked out, stolen or allowed the theft of 30 million kunas, and it was about the former minister who held the prods of morality from the other side of my left hand, which I told him was wrong, but no one got up because we tolerated the theft, that person knew he was committing a crime and she confessed that she knew he was committing a crime, but she had to do it. Be careful, what an excuse. What about the victims, and the victims are, you know what? All the unemployed, all the ones who don't have enough money. Who has sympathy for them? It's a great injustice, it's a crime against crimes when such people are allowed to repent their sin with several hundred hours of work and say, so nothing happened and live on peacefully and normally that my suspicion of how much money has ended in their pockets, who's going to pay back that money and who's going to bring back the people's faith in us politicians at all?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76373	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76374	Thank you very much. So here's what we're talking about right now, you said that I finally got something off my chest, I didn't relax anything, I just wanted to say what's not right and what's causing confusion, misunderstanding and one reluctance amongst the citizens when we get into that situation. I didn't want to elaborate because many people have said it before me, but of course, by trial I mean that it applies to those who have been convicted for up to a year, those who have a protective measure and those who are convicted of general good or possibly those who have done two-thirds of the sentence, and the rest need to be supervised, and that certainly doesn't apply to these and these acts. So we absolutely agree here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76375	Thank you, too. Now it's Drazenko Pandek's turn. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76376	I thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So this report gives a large number of statistics that I think give a good insight into the work, the work of the Probation Service itself, this work according to this report, so the work of the Probation Service, and if we take into account the relatively modest means that the service has a good one and I think the report should be supported. Despite the large number of cases, therefore seized during 2012, this number of unallocated items decreased by over 37%, which certainly represents significant progress, especially when we see that the total number of cases in operation from 860 in 2011 increased to as much as 2059 in 2012. However, further progress in reducing this number of unallocated items should certainly be encouraged, since progress must simply be greater in view of the growth of the subjects. No matter how well the report was assessed as a whole and if it were good insight into the work, however, to further improve this report in the future, I would also point out a few remarks and suggestions. The report states that 920 cases and 83% of all cases were successfully implemented in 2012, while 27% were not successfully realised. And now these reasons for the failed execution of the case are listed. It is thus noted that in 63 cases, the court or, therefore, about 30% of these cases have reached a solution that determines the execution of a prison sentence, and 101 cases have gone out of date and have not been handled. Here, in this part of the report, I would personally like to see some more detailed data, especially on these items, that they may be specific, if possible reasons for the execution of the prison sentence, and also the reasons that led to an ageing number of cases. Therefore, in 30% of these total subjects, the protection and labour measures for the general good at large have not achieved their objective, I think the report would be good if... the application of these measures nevertheless were analysed in order to improve the future application of these measures. I would also like to analyse the fact that no sanctions were actually applied, so in these 50% cases, which then raises the question in that part of the point of expressing these measures and the effectiveness of the penalty policy, therefore as an important instrument and a special and general prevention. Of the total number therefore included in the trial that had been previously punished, 30% of them were once previously punished and, among other things, fell into my eyes, of course, which also included to certain colleagues and colleagues that 31% of people who were punished 4, 5 or more times. In this context, I would also like to express a certain reserve and need in order to clarify the analysis of cases of those delinquents who have been punished 4, 5 and more times, and yet have entered the system of these measures. I would especially like to see an analysis of whether such delinquents make any more sense to express such measures, i.e. In particular, whether such measures have already been put in place before, and yet they have entered the system of application of these measures. In connection with this problem of return to criminal offences, I would also say that it may seem to me that there is a lack of information here on whether the delinquents on which these measures have already been applied have yet to return. Therefore, not only have the returnees entered into the application of the system of measures but those on which these measures have already been applied in the past, whether they have seen a return in which percentage and perhaps to identify the reasons for this. Here I would point out again as previously said and I, in my replica, stressed the need to change the legislation regarding replacing prison sentences for the common good. In public, however, I would say that it is justified to express anger by the fact that the crimes of corruption in which millions of crimes are committed are punishable only by working for the greater good. I would certainly say that the fact that such crimes can be replaced by the work for the general good is quite easy, not very good. I would therefore repeat the initiative to initiate certain amendments to the legislation in the sense that crimes that cause serious consequences cannot be replaced by work for the common good. It also seems to me that this 60-day limit is as much as possible to work for the common good on freedom as possible. It's my impression that on average two hours for one day in prison I find just not enough measure. Regardless of what I've just pointed out, I think it should be pointed out that these measures are still an extremely useful tool in criminal policy. It is therefore necessary for the perpetrators of criminal offences, in particular those who committed the crime first or possibly second time, to provide assistance and supervision in order to avoid the launch of new offences. In particular, this applies to individuals whose social integration so far has been lacking and who live in some marginal social position in a satisfying social environment. In their case, it should be pointed out that the presence of permanent some unfavourable factors points to the need for them to enter this treatment, and to reduce the possibility and causality of them to commit new crimes, which should certainly help them. It is the task of society and the state because I think we can all agree that the basis of every proper criminal policy is primarily resociation, so returning to normal life to the normal society of perpetrators of criminal offences, which particularly helps.... The data on the effectiveness of the application of the testing system in the countries which have been applying this system for a long time are widely reported. Over 87%, I think it's said that the end of the trial period is successful and that the number of relapsers is significantly reduced thanks to the application of this measure. But once again, it should be pointed out here that the success of the probationary system depends not only on its conduct in legislation but also on its real serious conduct. The surveillance of delinquents must not only be so superficial, it shall be possible to visit and verify data on perpetrators of criminal offences involved in this system but must be deep and engaged. I think this report also provides information on the basis of which we can conclude that the Probation Service is fulfilling that purpose to show progress in the work and I repeat that it should therefore be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76377	Thank you, too. On behalf of the applicant, she reported on behalf of Deputy Minister Sandra Artuković Kunšt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76378	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Probation is not a relatively new system, probation is an absolutely new system. It practically works in 2011 and 2012 because of this report and we are talking while other legal systems have been developing the digestive system for decades. We catch up to them at the maximum rate of development and the necessary construction of that system, regardless of what we're facing with the legacy of such a deep budget deficit, so we manage as we can. I'm going to challenge the claim that was made very casually in the introduction of the debate that it's a system based on the enthusiasm of individuals, it's simply not true. On the other hand, I am pleased that persons involved in the sampling system work so hard and work in this system that they experience themselves as their carriers. On the contrary, the system was built through the project we mentioned. The information and networking of this system leads to the speed up of the settlement of the case being achieved as well as the data for 2012. We can talk about the report about how it should be except for the set of data and the set of certain assessments, but we have just stayed away from making subjective assessments of the functioning of the system in the report itself. There have been talks about how probation officials are exposed during their work, of course we appreciate their work but in the same way we appreciate both the work and other services that work directly with risk groups from healthcare and social care associates, etc. What is important to say is that probationary officials in their work cooperate with other public bodies, especially if we are to talk about the threat with the MUP, and in this regard we have just drawn up a Protocol on the Cooperation of the Probation Service and the MUP in September of last year to allow for a higher level of security in the performance of these jobs. An electronic surveillance system has been mentioned, because of the already said succession of such a deep budget deficit, we are unable to develop electronic surveillance at the level mentioned here, but it is only essential that electronic surveillance is a solution to what we want to achieve, which is the resociation of the perpetrator, i.e. awareness of unacceptable behaviours and therapeutic work with persons who are in the sampling system. That's the main objective and that's the purpose of the probationary system. Of course certain improvements are coming in themselves because of the introduction of this system. One of them is a reduction in the number of overcrowding Croatian prisons. I can only say briefly now because of the trial system but, of course, because of the thorough work on the new penalty policy system that's coming back in, I'm going to say it to a reasonable extent. From 2011 to today, we have reduced the overcrowding of our prisons by 21.23% and it is now on a percentage of 113%. So we're 13% above capacity, and that's a very good thing for us. There was talk of antiquity, a question of an age-old problem. When the Probation Service took over the items, it did not start from scratch, so it did not form and now the first item is theirs, but they took over the old items in the work which might have been done differently. But it was just the goal of getting as many people involved in this good system as possible. By taking over old objects of course happened, the consequence is that some have gone into obsolescence. Of course, we were talking about improving technical conditions and the need for a car, we were very happy, we were criticised for getting a vehicle, but the vehicles for the judiciary are partly for testing, so I believe that's how we'll handle it. I just want to say that as far as rehearsals are concerned, it must be based on the trust of the functioning of the judicial system. We may be inclined to point out negative examples, though, I think they should be highlighted, but negative individual examples can't be the basis for me to have a very dangerous and bad conclusion that the judiciary is rotten and that it doesn't work at all. It's just not true, it's not a fact. The judiciary today, the judiciary today solves more cases than it receives. We should ask ourselves why the judiciary has so many cases and has led this country to solve everything through the judicial system, i.e. who has previously failed to do so. But well, we're already used to criticism in that sense. They just motivate us to keep working and it won't be me now. And the same thing I'd like to pray for, let's refrain from wanting revenge. The judiciary shall impose sanctions on them on the basis of the facts of the individual case. I'm not going to talk about a potato-popping case right now, but let's just say we have enough confidence that great facts have been established in the case of a judicial verdict. No one is guilty until proven guilty, but if someone has been convicted by power, he has been convicted on the basis of the facts of a specific case in a particular matter. In that sense, as citizens, we should have a minimum level of trust in our own judiciary. I am pleased to point out exactly the specific problems we see in the work during the very establishment and operation of the Probation Service. We'll work on them, of course, and we'll keep working on them. The 2013 report is under preparation, and it will certainly show a shift in this report and thanks to these initiatives that we have talked about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76379	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We have one replica, Branko Vuksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76380	Dear Deputy Minister Artuković-Kunšt, so you said, here's the last sentence, we should trust. Trust isn't built on it, you need it. Trust is built on other foundations. The other thing is, the court bases have rotted as much as you hide it, it's a fact. Three times as long a trial as they are elsewhere. We're not talking about individual cases, but I can send you, say, 20 individual cases where tens of years of hostage that haven't moved since the first debate in a few years because they're being held in a drawer. Prices, it's almost like some judges are hanging out at the door. These are facts that you can keep secret, ignore, but that's how it is. We're an unsettled society because the judiciary doesn't work for us. Even here, Minister Milenic admitted it. You said it like this, it's not true that the service rests on the enthusiasm of an officer. If the results and many have said here, if the results of the Probation Service are better than the system, then it is precisely the probationary officers who did not have the conditions. The results in primary school teachers are better than the system itself. That means we can thank the teacher's enthusiasm that our school doesn't sink even lower. So, you're wrong, there's no good, no good system solved, no well solved all the tools we should work with. Talk to field officials, talk to them when they have, when they go through dangerous criminals, when they have police protection. Come on, talk to me, I'll get you three four probations if you won't fire them, so I'll bring you those officers. And you seem to live, to observe the world through, from Pantovich, or I don't know how.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76381	Thank you. Answer. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76382	Thank you very much. Well, I don't live on Pantochuck. And we're just talking to the probation officers and what you just mentioned is in my final presentation and it's been emphasized. So, with the MUP, we prepared and adopted a cooperation protocol just to solve this situation. Of course, it is on the enthusiasm of a probationary officer to assess when such intervention will need to be prepared for it, as well as, say, prepared by court officers when they go on board. So I didn't say that it's not based on enthusiasm it's an important part but it's not just what makes this system but the system does and what builds it just like there's a system of schools. If it wasn't for him, there wouldn't be any educators. Minimum trust is necessary. I will repeat, of course, that on negative examples, bad conclusions can be drawn, but if we don't have a minimum confidence in the justice system, then the state doesn't actually exist at all, and I'm going to tell you that it just seems to me that citizens have a lot of confidence in the system because they're taking so much action because they see that this is the only solution to justice here. That's a very important and good piece of information to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76383	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later. We continue work on April 2nd on Wednesday at 9.30 p.m. with the proposal for a decision to declare the National Day of Nikola Tesla. Good-bye to Wednesday and have a good weekend and the rest of your days.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-28-0.u76384	2012 Probation Service report. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the Committee on Justice as the home working body of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The 2012 Probation Service Report is accepted. A year.". Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of the 82 votes in favour and 24 votes have been abstentioned to the proposed conclusion.
