ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u89520	Dear Mr. President, while you're looking for these investors for Mostar University under Article 248 of our Rules of Procedure, please on behalf of the HDZ Club for a 15-minute break. The explanation, in accordance with the same article – given the shortness of election deadlines for the upcoming elections, which we have been waiting for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to announce in vain today, is asking for a break to address the plenary session.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u89521	The usual. Dear colleague, of course I'll give you a break. Anyone else want one? No, I don't. Ten minutes, 11.25. 11.25, thank you very much. It's 11:00. 15 o'clock. CONTINUED AFTER STATION 11.25 HOURS of Honored colleagues and respected colleagues in the Croatian Assembly, it is past time for a break sought by the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament. In the name of the club, the reasons for the break will be presented by the esteemed colleague Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u89523	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry to disturb you with this almost idyllic atmosphere, but I can see that no one, at least not the government, but Parliament doesn't care about any of the things that have come unwittingly close to us. In fact, elections for the president of the Republic for the 28th month were called, according to the current legislation that the parliamentary majority set deadlines for some of the electoral actions only lasts eight days. As of the 20th month, all voters' lists are concluded and they will determine which number of people have the right to vote in the upcoming elections. At the same time, the government passed two laws, one called the Law on residence, and another Law on the register of voters, which when you read, you will find that by some estimates from 160 thousand to up to 200 thousand voters in the Republic of Croatia and those living outside the Republic of Croatia will lose their right to vote in the re-elections or as the second round of presidential elections says. Why is that gonna happen? Because by virtue of the laws that I have cited police administrations, they are erasing those people who are allegedly found not to live at certain addresses. From the addresses of the home number 00 or bb and which are unduly burdened with citizens having to change them, and I will warn that the obligation of the representative bodies of the units of local self-government to regulate the names of streets and squares in their places which some have not done, and that the State Geodetic Authority has established home numbers in those same streets, today the Croatian Government is making a commitment to those people to change their valid identity cards because local self-government has not done part of the work for which they are responsible. After all this, I will enter into force of the Law on residence that we have once extended in a year these people lose their right to vote in the second round of presidential elections. I will also remind you of how much time it allows me on the mandatory instructions of the State Election Commission which unfortunately did not appear in this case, as no civil society has reported, which were so spotlessly careful when some other governments were running election affairs. I will remind you of the 2005 instructions for the presidential elections, which say that voters who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia are obliged to present before the vote proof of identity, passport, foreign ID card, driver's license whether the document is issued in the Republic of Croatia or abroad, and whether the document is valid or expired. It is therefore important that it is a public correction from which the identity of the voters can undoubtedly be determined. Today, the Croatian government is giving up this principle of identifying identity in the upcoming elections. And we therefore call on you from this pay phone and from your colleagues in Parliament and the Croatian Government to keep at least minimum legality ahead of the upcoming elections and to give up such application of the laws which will injure the Constitution guaranteeing the right of all voters to choose or be elected in the Republic of Croatia under the same conditions. If these laws apply and listen to the insubstantial arguments of the administration or the government's representative, it will happen that for the second round of presidential elections up to 200,000 people will lose the electoral right they had in the first round. Such as to forgive the incompetence, the Croatian Parliament must not allow it. And I therefore appeal to all of you to call on the government to give up such regulations and regulate the electoral process on democratic principles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u89524	Thank you too, dear colleague. Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament continue at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament according to the planned itinerary. It is the law: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Education in Primary and High School, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E.BR.763. The proposer of this law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. The amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the Government's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Minister of Science, Education and Sports Vedran Sailor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95912	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Law on education and education in primary and secondary schools was passed in 2008. Since then, it has been changed and complemented several times since that day. However, education and education are a living system that is constantly experiencing changes, and we must constantly improve that law. The ministry is planned to make separate laws on primary and secondary schools, however, following a public debate and knowing that there is a nine-year elementary school in the Science, Education and Technology Strategy that will require a serious change anyway. We've decided on only changes this year. Moreover, I must comply with Directive 2006/123 of the EC on services on the internal market in the sense that the founders of school institutions whose activity is not financed from the state budget are exempt from the obligation to obtain a previous positive opinion of the Ministry on the justification of their establishment. They are a market, so they can start a school even though it is not foreseen by a network of school institutions, of course with all quality assurance clauses. Furthermore, these changes remove the observed shortcomings of the provisions, there are many of them related to the network of schools, the structure of classrooms and programs, the establishment of an e-matico school institution, the enrolment of first grade secondary schools, the change of programs or schools, the status of a regular student, the attendance of an electoral class, the examination of language competences, work in a combined classroom department, pedagogical measures, the conclusion of grades, the adoption of school curricula, the ethical code, the order of the house, the duration of education-educated work and the staff of school institutions. Most of the provisions of course apply to the rights and obligations of pupils and to the creation of preconditions for the overall development of each student by respecting its individual specificities. For the first time, a student who is over 18 years of age is also allowed to start a high school education. Of course, not as it says in the paper, 50-year-olds, but in exceptional cases, with the approval of the ministry when due to long-term illness or neglect, the child goes to school at 10, 11 years old and under the current law cannot continue high school, but only in the adult education system. This change will allow them to continue in the regular system. Furthermore, the decision on the elements and criteria for enrolment in high school has been made every year, which was certainly not a quality solution, so we have allowed these amendments and additions to adopt a rule that will apply to the longer term and which will then be a more appropriate solution for enrollment in school. It is also known that for the second year, elementary school students are being enrolled by electronic means in high school, and this year it has been successfully implemented. This is completely public, completely transparent, subject to follow-up, but of course it was after the enrollment of the system, that the students were switching round the way from school to school because there was no legal restriction. Here we clearly prescribe that if the student wants to change the program or school during the first grade of high school, he can only make it if there are at least as many points as the last ones on the list are listed, unless clearly that school to which the transfer is not filled. Also, at the end of the school year, those who were evaluated as insufficient in one or two teaching classes have been given an assessment, which allowed them to pass the correction exam within two exams. According to the new ones, we will prescribe that for such students the school is obliged to organise assistance in learning and making up for the additional work, and only if the additional work does not qualify for a positive assessment will it be referred to the autumn correction period. In the previous version of the school, they held that first correctional period very soon after the end of the school year, so in those few days the student had no opportunity to prepare quality, and often the students paid expensive instructions. Furthermore, this law first defines the time limit within which a student or a parent can apply for... the final evaluations of a particular case, as well as the assessments of the rule. As for the assessment of conduct, it has been awarded to me by the class so far, and the class council had no role to play there, so there were often complaints that the grade was subjective. From now on, the evaluation of the government would be determined on the basis of the conclusion of the teaching or teaching council on the proposal of the classmates. Since the school is not only an educational institution but also an educational institution, the goal is to help students adopt and develop more effective and responsible behaviours that will contribute to their success in school and society and ensure that all students have the same rights, but also obligations and responsibilities, so the school must send clear messages about what is acceptable and which is not, and there is a clear and important role of the Institute of Pedagogical Measures. It may be a warning to the student, but also an incentive to change behaviour, to develop positive values and attitudes and to encourage better cooperation with peers, teachers and teachers, but also to have clear rules that will be taken seriously, so it is proposed to prescribe criteria for the expression of pedagogical measures uniformly at all levels, one regulation that will apply to all schools, that for students with behavioral problems, those at risk of such behaviour are prescribed mandatory systematic educational support and professional treatment, unrelated to the expression of pedagogical measures. This provides the student with professional support whenever necessary. And the practice of eradicating those most difficult pedagogical measures will be abolished, not of course, those mild reproofs just as the warning of high school exclusion and the strict reprimand of the move to another elementary school after the end of the school year. This law also gives the teachers, teachers, parents, and students the right to directly influence the provisions of the home order of the school and the ethical code. Due to the need to regulate status and work, a new provision in the law introduces assistants in the follow-up for students with difficulties, you know that there have always been problems. Until now, they have not been legally recognised and the legal basis for the adoption of a regulation is laid down, which would detailed the arrangements for including and performing the work of the assistants and the conditions for those persons to meet. Furthermore, the Director will be able to work on the proposal of the Minister to an expert, practitioner, teacher, teacher in the school with his, of course, consent to enable work on jobs of exceptional strategic national interest in the system of education and education, such as in the design of national curricula in question, the development of strategies, reforms, on EU projects, etc. for a maximum period of one year. This will allow people in practice to contribute to projects of the highest national importance and, according to school feedback, everyone with this proposal is very pleased, so far, practically because of their school obligations could not participate. This law makes it clear and clear, and who can do all the teaching work in question. Of course, the teacher’s call is extremely demanding and responsible, so the teacher should have expertise, but it is extremely important that during formal education there are also educational competences that will enable him to teach in accordance with the needs of each student using different strategies, methods and forms of teaching. The expertise itself, of course, is not enough to work with children, especially children of primary school age, so this law prescribes the phasing out of... teachers in question, pupils in primary schools. In particular, when an invitation to tender for a job as a teacher or teacher in a primary school will first be concluded if such a person has applied to someone who has completed a teaching course study programme, an appropriate teaching course at the level of a graduate university study or an integrated pre-graduate and graduate university study because these persons are best trained to work with students. The fact that teaching programs are carried out at a higher number of universities and that in the Republic of Croatia there are a large number of unemployed teachers, but nevertheless it happens that not always does not apply to a competition for a person with a completed university study and in such cases the school can hire a person who has completed a study programme of an appropriate type at the level of a graduate university study or an integrated pre-graduate and graduate university study or a specialist degree study of an appropriate type. But if this person is hired for the first time, there is no pedagogical competence, then he must acquire them within a year of the day of employment. Also, in the event that the competition does not occur, one of the schools mentioned above can then hire a person who has completed the so - called competition. beccalaureus pre-graduate university and professional studies with at least 180 ECTS but, of course, again on condition that he acquires pedagogical competences within a year. This will give priority of course to those who have already chosen studies who have decided to be teachers and teachers and who will be given priority to employment because they have all the necessary competences, which then enables students to have the quality of teaching. Furthermore, these amendments to the law make it more clear that the conditions and the study of an appropriate species must be completed by the person competing for the Director’s seat. The draft Regulation on the programme of the procedure and method of obtaining and renewing a licence for the work of the Director will be prepared for public debate at the beginning of the following year. There are currently no conditions for obtaining a licence for the work of directors and that is one of the reasons why this procedure is urgent because on 1 January 2015 practically no one could be a school director anymore, so by this law we will postpone the licensing provisions until 1 January 2017. And finally respected MPs and MPs, these amendments and additions are really necessary to overcome the observed obstacles and shortcomings in the educational process and work, and this law will contribute to the more efficient work of schools up to new laws that we will, in parallel with the introduction of the Strategy of Science and Education and Technology, propose to the Croatian Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95913	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. We heard the government's argument. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament want to present their reports? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going through the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the Club of Independent Representatives Linić, Vukšić, Hodzic and, on behalf of the club, the respected Branko Vukšić. Here's my colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95914	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. As we have been falsely promised for years or decades, we have already become a land of knowledge, unfortunately judging by what comes from primary schools, which comes from testing to become a country of drumming. In health care instead of the master plan to cloud the truth about ability and knowledge, we have a master plan, and in education, so many curriculaes that we have forgotten the essence and purpose of the curriculum and program. Even in the assessment of the situation, it is acknowledged that the Law on Raising and Education in primary and secondary schools has been changed more accurately, but all these serious changes have not been addressed. If they weren't removed, that's what the law says. On the contrary, many teachers, teachers, teachers, and parents claim that the integrity of the education system is almost destroyed. These were also used by participants in a fair discussion of new amendments to the law. When I asked the highly educated father of three elementary school students how and what his rich experience taught children in elementary school, he answered me, the drumming banished knowledge, in textbooks there was a mass of unnecessary unrelated facts, some tests would not be ashamed of the university. And why is that? No one gives an answer to that question. Knowledge without an explanation is a dogma. Who comes up with these curriculas, plans, programs? Who determines what is taught, why is it taught, taught, taught, and where is it taught? Children go to school early in the morning driving if they are lucky to have public transportation, organized transport, driving for example 7km 45 minutes in one direction, coming from school, eating lunch, writing homework and drumming to sleep, to unconsciousness. That's how we turn kids into zombies. They're leaving early in the morning for school, giggling on their backs harder than their own bags. Brothers and sisters do not inherit books, parents have to buy books of retouched titles with the same content each year, teachers say mostly bad. That's why they don't have the money to transport, so many kids don't even have a marenda, and they're loud, although the prime minister doesn't know anything about it. How do you decide that hungry children don't hold too heavy books with a system that thinks about their citizens? Millions of extras assigned to political parties, we make lockers in which children will keep books at school. Even when we buy one locker for every student in Croatia, there will be plenty of money left for the parties. Especially for what the people of them get. Kids have to come to school without books and come home without books. Knowledge needs to go where it belongs, to his head. When children come home to play, to rest, to interact with brothers, moms, dads, grandfathers, they have to walk their dogs and cats, they have to play borderers, they have to look at cartoons and laugh at the comments of their parents, they have to talk, they have to get into healthy people, they have to play in the sand. If they don't play while the kids start playing when they grow up and then one of them could fall into the hands of the state to run it a little bit. What I'm talking about is not some unreal story, but look at the prime minister and the ministers make an impression of playing. Children must have a free meal at school because they can only function when they are full. The prime minister works when he's hungry and he's never hungry. Of course, Croatia is not Finland that we Croats are not Finnishs, that their best education system is not a reflection. And we're not gonna say many rich enough to realize it. Wrongly, the Finns became rich because 100 years ago they realized that the only way out of poverty was to invest in the most important resources in people, in their education, not in drumming, but in knowledge. Instead of starting to create our own, we too begin to create our own educational system which is the foundation of all the foundations and, of course, of that economic system we systematically destroy. Who runs Finnish high and elementary schools? The most educated, the best. As the democratic world does not know about payouts, as the civilized world does not know about lawless construction, as in regulated states it cannot happen that public companies run the same, so it cannot happen that their schools are run by those who do not meet the most basic criteria and it is education. In a public debate published by the ministry, a number of professors concluded that it seems to them that this law is only being amended to favour and protect a group of school employees, a current director who does not have a high level of expertise. Since 2008 there has been an application, the application of a provision which says that directors must have a VSS is delayed. In those six years, all of them could have been educated by their fellow teachers. After all, isn't thesis on the overall issue of lifelong education to the principal? Afterwards, never to be appointed director of the hospital, nor did a senior nurse report to the competition. Do we really think that the criteria in schools that I repeat are not only the foundations of the economy, not just the upgrades, but also hospitals are not important? If they're important why we don't establish them, it seems like suddenly a social category that doesn't belong here is more important than the criteria. By losing or failing to establish criteria in the education system, we lose the right to criteria and the rest of society. As I said earlier in my assessment of the situation, it is said that there were no deficiencies detected from the plane many years ago. Despite heavy bags, countless tests, work notebooks and tasks that students often cannot perform even after all afternoon's work, knowledge is becoming less and less. And these consequences of not solving the problem will be felt not for years to come but for decades to come. And who can do the teaching work at school? It is absurd that a person who has completed pre-graduate studies can also be engaged in elementary school if, for example, the person who graduated from the university does not report to the competition. The law thus stimulates the failure of a graduate study. What do you need schools if you can get a job with a lot less trouble? Nor are the conditions for the job of teachers of civic education specified. Civil education can be taught by any teacher who is motivated to do so. This means that persons with higher professional training and completed education for example spokesmen, as one respected professor in Mostar said in a public debate, can contact the teacher of civic education and get the job. Who gave unreserved support to this amendment to the law that aims not to change the essence? Directors who do not meet the criteria for the Director. Most of the teachers, teachers and teachers I spoke with, most of the teachers and teachers who participated in a brief public debate, argue that the decision to cut the midterm score was wrong. Why? I'll give you one but important argument. Without final grades coming up say professors often misjudge both students and parents as much as the student has actually learned. There are no teachers who advocate to abolish, but there are those who have abolished the conclusion of mid-term grades and teachers who advocate the abolition of the overall success at the end of the year. Why? The overall success stands in the argument of the pedagogical requirement completely unwarranted. Why? Because it leads to unreasonable inflation assessments say. Since there have been several serious changes to the Law on Primary and Secondary Education, some of those addressed to this problem feel that a new, full-fledged should be adopted, which was mentioned earlier by the minister but a separate reform law. So two laws, one for education and education in elementary and the other for education and education in high school. There may be logic in that request or suggestion. It is about two systems, a compulsory education system and a voluntary education system. Each of them has its own specificities and legality. And maybe we should be apart. This law lacks the precise attitude of society and state towards students with developmental difficulties. If we want students with developmental difficulties to be integrated into regular primary and secondary schools, we need to secure money for this. Money is needed to pay for the work of an assistant. If we don't secure that money, and the law doesn't make it clear who should be financing the assistants, then all of this will be not only a dead letter on paper but another hoax in sequence. A special story that isn't even in the law is the growing difference between children, the one with I-phones and the one they don't have for lunch. These differences bite the whole system, let alone bite the school system. The children of the weaker property on the plate are more often bullied, mobbed by rich children. Many societies struggled to at least at a visual school-practical level to reduce the impression of differences in how children of rich land and children of poor rise. Finland does not deal with these problems because reduced differences between adults have been transmitted and created a good atmosphere in schools. In Croatian schools there are children who have everything and those who have little or no. Until we settle this, all the laws will remain meaningless.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95915	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We have a few replicas. The Honorable representative of the Dunja Spoljar, the first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95916	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, in your discussion you said that in the Croatian system of education today parents are forced to buy new textbooks every year. As a parent of two, I guarantee you that's not the case. So I have two kids in high school. Since the first grade of elementary school, my younger child has used my older child's textbooks, so the textbooks were in a 4-year cycle and could have been used for 4 years in a row with the exact same textbook. But the textbooks, like everything else you've talked about, and in most of what you've spoken well, depend on good teachers and quality teachers and teachers, as well as heavy bags, and schedules hours, as well as all the tools that teachers have in their hands to make these bags as easy as possible, which are a block of hours, the proper schedule of classes, processing, training, repetitions, and checking, and everything else that can be done to make the bags much easier or even easier. Furthermore, I always return to the basis of which to go are motivated, ambitious and well-educated teachers and all depends on them, and so are many facts from your debate. As for the conclusion of the evaluation at the end of the semester, I would like, like the guideline in your entire debate, was a Finnish model, if you had looked back at the Finnish model and their assessment. There's only one last thing I'd add, the evaluation isn't and it can't be a pedagogical measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95917	Thank you, too. Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95918	Dear colleagues, I'm not young enough to have a child in primary school, unfortunately, and I'm not even old enough to have a granddaughter in primary school. I said I talked about how to find out, I talked to a parent who has three children in elementary school and he claims to buy books every year, that he has to shop, in Istria he lives, there. I trust him. You said, I totally agree with you, you were talking about high school, quality and good teachers, I totally agree, everything should be given to human resources and they are holding the school system today because that there would be no total decay. It would be a total break-up, and they should be trusted. But you need to build a system, you just said one thing, which is why let me explain, now the minister is there, he'll probably explain to you why for the sixth year, so we're going to go to seventh year, so we gave the eighth and ninth year that the directors who are supposed to be the most educated, most competent, haven't found them in six years to properly finish, they could have finished college from start to end, they didn't, and we're just playing the system, playing the laws we've passed. We extend that deadline every time. Why don't we do it, why don't we build a system, why don't we create criteria? Teachers, teachers are bitter about this rescheduling and application that should have taken effect long ago. After all, the public debate, all 300 pages I read public debates and I read what the professors say, so I didn't get out of..., but it's the state that tramples its laws from day to day.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95919	Dear representative Marija Lugaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95920	Dear colleague Vuksic, I wanted to replicate among other things this section around the director of a more professional training. Up until 20 years ago in the Republic of Croatia, teaching and teaching studies were exclusively more professional training. Afterwards, it was slowly trying to motivate people to finish the high professional training and these directors you speak of in Croatia could not be educated with VHS at VSS. They were unable to attend school in Croatia. Some universities in neighbouring countries have made business and weekend courses so almost buying a diploma for the VSS and I think it's more fair to evaluate people who have completed their studies competent, more professional training because they are competent to work at school than to force them to buy diplomas under suspicious conditions in some neighbouring countries. Why were they unable to attend school in Croatia? Because no university wanted to call this program, except for the Faculty of Teachers, I have to admit in Zagreb and some others who did it for graduate teachers, and there's a little bit of a problem. Secondly, around the teachers, this is the third one to say the category of profession, you said could be the prime minister. Yeah, but he's got to finish 55 ECTS pedagogical-psychological education, which then raises him to the level of this Bologna master. You just have to read the whole article. And in the end, you've talked about a lot of things in the law, I'd like us to agree politically to what level the law has to standardize things. If the law has to standardise how social differences are equated in... If the law has to norm but absolutely every little thing you've ever talked about we're going to kill schools, kill the autonomy of teachers, kill the autonomy of school and kill the quality of that school. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] My colleague Spoljar said well, the follow-up is based on a quality teacher. But I'm adding to that to an autonomous teacher and autonomous school, and then there's a need to be careful what level legal regulation goes to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95921	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95922	Dear colleague Lugaric, I fully agree with you that the law cannot regulate all things. And I didn't say, it wasn't an objection to the law and it wasn't an objection to this current minister and it wasn't an objection to this government alone. I said it was systematically destroyed, but those are the words of professors and teachers, not my words and those of the article you spoke. I read the article. As soon as it allows in the first part. I've been telling you, and I've mentioned to you a town where you buy exactly those diplomas that you've said extras that allow teachers to work for jobs that aren't trained. I don't agree with you that the principals couldn't speak. In six years, the entire college could be completed, in six years, a study could be opened. Why couldn't he open the studio? How's the state? We here at the Croatian Parliament say there are laws, so we can't change anything, and we're changing the laws. We're talking about who we're running the state, by the quotes we're, I'm not thinking of myself because I'm not in that position, that nothing can change. It can change, so it can't change. And the principals could've finished and got high-end training. If they couldn't, there are hundreds of young people who can replace them. The principals can do some other work. We tear down the criteria we set ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95923	My colleague Vuksic, I was actually monitoring the vote of the MPs and it is not that you decide nothing because you voted for over 50% of the bill you voted for. That's it, that's how it's decided. A new replica, a respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95924	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, buddy, I don't know where to start. First of all, what my colleague Lugaric said about overnoding, I couldn't agree more. If I were to characterise your debate, I'd say it's a bunch of demagogy, and we've only heard a few actually concrete words about this law and this bill. We all here that we've replicated to you from the profession and we certainly know what's wrong with that system, so we've brought in the Strategy of Education, Science and Technology. And before you start talking about not providing the funds here's just a few items I'm going to give you. Making teaching questionnaires of curiculum 12 million kuna, project reform of basic education 236000 kuna, licensing of directors for the first time 200 000 kuna. We've prescribed that a director, one of the conditions for the director must be licensing, and that the licensing process has never actually been accessed. None of the directors presently meet your legal requirements. That's why we're changing it, so now we finally approach it. And when we talk about the directors themselves as such, so I hold that for teaching, the quality of teaching is much more important to the educator, much, much, much, much. The principal's just a school manager. When you talk about the university, the university has autonomy. To ask any rectors, the dean will tell you what you're interfering with in our business. That's one more thing for you. And we talk a lot about that Finnish model. We don't need a Finnish model, we need a Croatian model. Many of the laws we literally copied, translated and copied from Austria have in practice proved to be a disaster, and the laws we have broken and with a million changes and additions have proved in practice a lot... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95925	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95926	I can't help but answer you. And for many strategic laws, HDZ is very quick to agree between the SDP and HDZ, and it seems to be in power then. Dear colleague Hajdukovic, you on the right, to me on the right, but also to the right, when you have no answer then you say one classic picker who actually doesn't make sense anymore that it's all demagogy, that it's all populism. The biggest pile of demagogy is just three years of the SDP rule that has promised one thing, and it's doing the other, and I guess it's third thoughts. No one's in favour of the Finnish model, and I was saying we're not Finns, we're not Finns, we're not going to be Finland. Unfortunately, we won't be and we need a Croatian model. But what is good in the Finnish model, and we can apply in Croatia, and we need to start to fix the system, and we need to have some examples because we did not create our own system. That system is getting worse and worse. All of what you're saying about directors, of course I disagree, because it's just an excuse. When it is said in the law that it has been changed several times and that the effects have not been achieved and why the effects are not achieved if the law is amended and if we have prescribed something and then we say another year we will now, not since 2010 but from 2011 and then in 2011 we say 2012 to 2013 and we will 2017. That's not where the principals are. It happens with a lot of laws that way and it's demagogy, introduce something and then say no after that, we'll do it, there were no conditions. And the point is, this is about independence so you can't. Well, it's normal for the university to be independent. But with the university, you can negotiate, you can talk, you can create conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95927	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Tomislav Zhagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95928	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Vuksic and my replica will refer to the selection of principals in primary schools, secondary schools. Namely, I am among those who would be first sure to take the position that in such a responsible place that I do not agree with even my colleague Hajdukovic, who says that the director should only be the manager. He must be both a pedagogue and a psychologist, so he must have various competences in such a demanding place. And it is certain that people who are highly educated should come to such a place. However, in some ways in this society we inherit many injustices, so to speak. Since 1919, our teaching has been educated in the high school system. In 1960, the establishment of the Pedagogical Academy educates teachers in a two-year system, so teachers of class and class education. In 1991, a colleague, Lugaric, mentioned the introduction of a 4-year degree of education. So, these people all who ended up, not with their own guilt because if they had been prescribed a 4-year study, had completed a 2-year study, worked at school, had the competences I was talking about, and so they volunteered for the director's post. But one more thing is very important, don't observe the ministry when we talk about the selection of directors, the principals are elected by the school board. School committees are regularly influenced, so to speak, by the local self-government unit and regional self-government. So that's where we have to look for an answer to who and when and how he chooses the principals. Of course the Ministry confirms, but the primary school board chooses. We don't know if there's any data in the ministry as to what kind of professional storage of today's directors, how many of them are in a particular area, but that would certainly be an interesting piece of information. And in the end, as far as methodology and didactics are concerned, I'm going to say one vivid example. You know, it's very difficult for a second grade high school student to explain Bernoulli's equation. It is also difficult to explain such a complex and demanding equation at that level, even when textbooks are made and later in the lecture itself. In this sense, you must understand teachers that although they sometimes seem to give too much information sometimes it is necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95929	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95930	My dear colleague, Sagar, we generally agree. I don't think teachers are guilty. You're saying the principals don't get elected by the minister or the ministry. So I didn't say, we prescribe, the ministry proposes the law and we make the law here, we create conditions or frameworks in which these directors are elected. I never said in that replica before as a famous demagogue and a populist that the biggest demagogue I've ever said was that children are hungry. It's the biggest demagogy and I lie and I make it up, etc. All the kids who say they're hungry are making it up. It doesn't work for you. I've abused it. In this basic, I agree. A lot of knowledge under the quotes of drumming is unnecessary. We need to learn other skills that are listed each time and each time we go over and over again and every time we say that we didn't do it well, we're going to go now, and now we're going to start it. Every time, the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95931	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the SDP's Club of Representatives and the respected representative of Dunja Spoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95932	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with co-worker, fellow MPs and colleagues of teachers and fellow teachers, although I doubt any of them can watch this session today because in the last weeks before the winter vacation the teacher's working week lasts for over 100 hours. So, you should finish midterm, you should check, you should practice, you should prepare the event, you should distribute gifts, you should prepare various decorations for the interior of the school, you should receive parents, you should organise a parent meeting, you should prepare yourself for the teaching and teaching council and make an inventory at school. All that during this short period. So, Vecernji list 7 February 2014: "The high school professor was hurt more easily in an attack that was carried out by a 17-year-old student in Zagreb on Wednesday. As we understand it, the young man beat him in the head during teaching." The morning list, July 14, 2014: "In April of last year, the student's mother threatened the teacher with death, and then physically attacked her. She knocked her down, says the teacher, three times. After hitting her head and body on the floor, the teacher managed to escape, but her mother reached her again. She hit her and pulled her hair." 24 hours, November 7, 2014: "I can't tell you what stress I am and the colleagues who work with me. I don't know what to do anymore, I'm on edge, and I think I need the help of a psychiatrist. I also received two first - grade classes in one of the primary schools this year. Working in one of those two classes is a nightmare. One student is very aggressive." My colleagues and colleagues, has it always been like this? This often, this intense? What's changed? Teachers, students, parents, society and social values? Are we just gonna be watchers or are we gonna do something? This draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools with the final draft law is on the trail. The achievement of one of the objectives of the Education Strategy that we recently adopted in this House is to raise the quality of work and the social reputation of teachers, by returning some tools, especially in education, in the hands of teachers. Pedagogical measures have not satisfactorily led to the prevention of behavioral problems and related problems of undesirable behaviour. There are more reasons for that. One of the problems related to the pronunciation of pedagogical measures was also the criterion of the pronunciation of pedagogical measures. In this regard, the schools governed the criteria with the statutes, and the analysis of the school's statutes identified significant differences. One example is that they are e.g. High schools prescribed that a student with 15 unwarranted hours could be excluded from school, and in other schools, the student could remain 30 and 45 hours unwarranted and then give him a disfellowshipping measure. This proposal regulates it. One of the problems was also related to the process of pronunciating the pedagogical measures and the way they were spoken. Pedagogical measures due to violations of duty, non-fulfilment of obligations and violent behavior in primary school are a reminder, reproof, strict reproof and moving to another school. Pedagogical measures of caution and reprimand as easier measures are expressed for the current school measure, and the measure of strict reproof and migration to another school as a difficult measure is valid until the end of primary education and education. The pedagogical measures in high school are also a reminder, reproof, notice before exclusion, exclusion from high school. Pedagogical measures of caution and reproof are said for the current school year, and, unlike them, harder warning measures such as strict reproof measures in primary school and warning measures before high school exclusion are valid until the end of that part of education. So, strict reproof to the end of education, a warning to the exclusion until the end of this basic, this middle. The same applies to the most difficult pedagogical move measures to another school for primary school and exclusions for high school students. In case the student is given a pedagogical exclusion measure from school, however, the student has the right to pass a class exam and continue schooling at the same or other school. The breeding measures that have existed so far have not prevented enough violent behavior. The new proposals related to educational measures are good, especially the portability of the most difficult educational measures in the coming year because these measures are not pronounced precisely because of harmless violations. So far, the rating from the government has been given by the class, and from now on it brings the entire class council, so it's all teachers, or teachers, who work with that student on the proposal of the same classmate. Thus, the student’s conduct, or conduct, is evaluated by all teachers and teachers, or all teachers and teachers involved in his daily school life and schoolwork. The measure of the extended professional procedure was implemented in schools as a pedagogical measure and this after some of the pedagogical measures had already been given to the student. Due to complaints about the possibility of providing adequate assistance to students of this law, it is possible for each student at risk of developing a behavioral problem, as well as for a student with behavioral problems to provide educational and professional support and professional treatment, and not related to the speaking of pedagogical measures. In addition to the year-end correction exams, students who have not mastered the planned return and well-known extended teaching under the name of the supplementary course for students with an insufficient grade of up to two cases. Instead of the two deadlines so far, it will be up to the school to organise assistance in learning and making up for the additional work that the student is obliged to attend. In the current law, the role of the teaching or teaching council, as well as the parent and student councils in the adoption of an ethical code and of a very important home order, was unclear. This law gives teachers, i.e. teachers, parents, through their body and students the right to direct influence on the provisions of the home order of the school and the ethical code of the school in such a way that the school board brings ethical code or order only after the discussion of these bodies, the teaching or teaching council, the parent council and the student council. Therefore, apart from the education that respected colleagues and fellow MPs would finally have to be regarded as an irreplaceable factor in the system of education and education. This proposal also brings some organisational changes and additions to areas that have not yet been defined. I will only set as an example an extension of the deadline for the adoption of the school curricula until September 30th of the current year. As I said at the beginning or described what the last weeks before the winter break look like, believe me, the weeks at the beginning of the school year look even more intense and there are even more obligations for teachers and teachers. As a basic document of the school which contains everything students must learn, determines the content as sources of information, determines the pedagogical standard, foresees different skills and paces of students' work, gives organisational and methodical guidance, ways of acquiring intended competences, elaborates evaluation settings, has to be confirmed by school education, so we are talking about curriculum and previous teaching, or teaching council, also the parent council. And since this last one is formed only at the beginning of the school year, the extension of this deadline is really reasonable. And in the end, what actually caused the biggest recommendations in the public, and these are the directors. The director must indeed have extensive knowledge, be able to prepare and reflect the productive working atmosphere, have the ability to observe and assess the needs of every child, every parent and every teacher, be the one who provides and does not give orders or give instructions, maintain a secure environment, be communicative and accessible to parents, be consistent, have the ability to work on the team, behave in a professional manner, expand your skills and work on your professional development and progress. Only with top executives is the autonomy of pre-school institutions, primary and secondary schools possible. Directors must have completed their studies of an appropriate type, and should have at least 8 years of training in schools and other institutions, or in the authorities of the state administration responsible for education, of which at least 5 years of direct education and education work. Directors who have a higher level of professional training chosen as director before 24 July 2010 shall not have the right to return to their place of employment, as is the case with those elected and appointed after that date, which shall, let's say, keep the post at the time of the Director's office in a maximum of two mandates. The new bill allows those directors with a higher professional willingness to carry out their mandate until the end. These amendments and amendments to the law propose to delete the provision of Article 159, which prescribed that the term of office of all school directors in Croatia should be completed in 01.01.2015 because the assumptions of obtaining the terms of the licence for the work of directors were not created. This law repeals the re-election obligations of all those directors, and the entry into force of the provisions relating to obtaining a licence for the work of directors as a condition for the selection of directors is postponed until 1 January 2017. Dear colleagues and colleagues, once a teacher, or teacher, was a concept for a student, but he was also an authority for parents. Today, unfortunately, this is no longer the case, yet most teachers and teachers still experience the teaching profession as their life call and are very motivated to work, and their greatest source of satisfaction is student success and progress. Let us all contribute together both to this debate and to the proposed amendments and amendments to the law to keep it that way in the future. The SDP club supports the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Education, Education in Primary and High School. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95933	Thank you, too, dear fellow MP. We have a replica of the respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95934	Thank you very much. Comrade Spoljar, you stressed the importance of the role of director in primary and secondary schools. Of course, it is very important, therefore, that the terms and conditions are also important for the director who is legally prescribed. One is a bit of a strange definition, said point 3. Conditions for the director for at least 8 years of insurance internships. It's probably prescribed by some other law, but it's a really pointless explanation. What's 8 years of insurance? Nobody understands that. This law is necessary and excellent, but it needs to be fixed in some things. When it comes to the principal, what's the point of the director signing the labor contract with the school board? So is the school board an employer? But that's the topic to discuss, where all arguments should be heard. The temporary director is signing a contract to work with the school board, that's pointless. As it is pointless for me that the school board chooses the principal at all, but these are topics that need to be discussed openly, to see arguments for and against. If someone were to convince me that it's better for the school board to choose the principal than the employer of things, then maybe I would accept it, it's not at all discussed. But to be able to conclude a work contract with someone who is not an employer, I can't understand it at all, it's really such, that it's a bit removed, then and with the terms of the principal, which means if he found himself in the principal's place that they could also be conditions that don't satisfy the law. It is not good, as it is not good for a lawyer to be employed that if someone did not sign up with a high professional training profession, that another person could, and that when he owns that place, and he does not have the right profession, so in a year the lawyer will not be able to come, he will still be the one who is not a lawyer, and he will continue to do the jobs. I think those things should be removed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95935	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of the Dunja Špoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95936	Dear colleague, I agree with you in the part where you said this proposal was an excellent amendment to the law. Here I agree with you, so it's good, and these little things you've listed, I think it's much more important than what I wanted to underline in my debate, which is how important the leadership role of the director is, therefore, his reputation and everything that will remain behind him, which is good and quality work of school, satisfied parents, satisfied students who are ready for progress in their further schooling. That's what's most important, what we should talk about here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95937	Honorable representative Nadica Jelash, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95938	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow Spoljar, you have begun your debate in such a way that you have instructed some cases of abuse that teachers daily experience in schools, which is from students, which is from their parents. And in the end you actually asked one thing, I'd say rhetorical question, was it always that way? In the end, you answered yourself, and I absolutely agree with you, no, it hasn't always been that way. So that's how it's become since then, so in the last 20 years, since the teachers lost their authority. So in the last 20 years, we've taught our children only rights, we haven't taught them the obligations at the same time, and now we're surprised that children insist on rights, and they're not ready to take on themselves and their obligations. So, I think it's extremely difficult to keep our teachers in schools today, in classes of discipline, and to pass on to children teaching content, and a special story is in it for parents. So they all imagined that their children had to succeed because success today is the only measure of life, so to speak, and they're actually willing to do everything, and to abuse teachers to make their children successful. But what kind of message is that to children? If they abuse parents, their children will, of course, do the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95939	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of the Dunja Špoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95940	Thank you, colleague. So what I can say after a quarter of a century of working with children and what is a safe premise, which is that each parent is the child's most special, but that's why teachers finish formal education, are fully educated, professional and know how to work with such a fact daily. And I'd just like to point out about the articles in the papers that I've been talking about, they only apply to 2014. So, they're very common, they're getting more and more aggressive and more intense, so I repeat again, this amendment and the addition of the law is going in that direction, let's just say it's slowly trying to put the reins back in the hands of the teacher and let's help them do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95941	Thank you very much. We're continuing the club debate. It is next to the Croatian Labour Club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95942	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Ministers and Associates. Well, I'm going to start with something that none of my predecessors have mentioned so far, and that's proposals or comments from independent unions employed in the secondary schools of Croatia, according to the Rules of Procedure, we can't propose an amendment to this text of the bill for reasons relating to articles that aren't here, but in both proposals that were included here were allegedly discussed at the GSV session, and at least to me they sound really normal, they're justified proposals and I don't see why the ministry didn't respect them as such. Because look when someone interrupts a traineeship because of temporary incompetence, because of the sick leave, because of the maternity issue that's listed here as an example, so I don't know what we're expecting then. I think the proposals are very real, very lifelike, and I'm sorry the ministry didn't find it appropriate to respect them and include them in the text of the bill. As far as the text is concerned, I have to admit that I am not from education, so I read this fairly layishly, the attitude of the Croatian Labourists on the privatisation of everything and everything was heard commentary, so it is not correct. As for the position of Croatian Labourists on privatisation, and I read this that in one part the possibility of privatising schools of certain schools is essentially always against it. But here it is possible that a certain school institution is established beyond a network of school institutions without consent if there is an interest in who founded it or who founded it. But somehow I'm asked a question and what's the founder's interest in him going with the establishment of such a school facility that's not within the network, which is already out there and for which no funds are provided? On the other hand, what are the possible consequences? Whether it's going to be some supposedly attractive school that's going to have to say some occupations, produce some kind of occupations whose students today are only going to have paper that they've completed some kind of schooling, and with that degree, they're only going to be able to fill the stock market. I don't think whoever's being well-intentioned has figured it out exactly the way the proposer wrote it here. I don't know, I may have taken a wrong turn thinking about it, but good. There are still certain good solutions here, but we find it very interesting, for example, in article 6 of the law relating to article 24 of the basic law, which reads "a student who has acquired a lower level of secondary education can continue to a higher level in line with the needs of the labour market". So who determines what needs the labour market, where it's defined, where will it be prescribed? I mean, it's kind of the same conveniently written, beautifully defined, but I'm afraid it's not real. It is mentioned here and the transportation of students, so let's say the related problem of the transportation of students are these schools where the transport is organised from surrounding villages, surrounding places and then generally that transport goes at the beginning and at the end of the shift. And you have a situation to say, especially underclasses of primary school have four hours each. Is it organized to have these children in those two hours while waiting for transportation to do what they will do, where they will be or are left to their imagination most often? But that's the reality we're facing. We're all locals, so now I've turned a little bit of a local patriotic story, so there's one problem we've been trying to solve for quite a while now, one area school whose students from several villages and were forced to walk all the time, that's what I've been saying with this pay phone, literally through the minefield. The explanation was that bus transport was impossible to organize from one side of the road and on the other side of the road are tables minefields and now we have a situation if the bus slips off that road he ended up in a minefield and therefore cannot organize the transportation of children. That's where the kids walk, come to the neighboring village where they wait for the bus that takes them to school. That's where the CROMAC reacted spotlessly, really good for them, they did the demining job. If I'm not mistaken, 500 thousand kunas were the entire investment, then the County Road Administrations were involved, which led to the road and everything along the road canals and everything that should be put into order, and then we thank you for helping the Croatian forests that also took part in this. And then now we have a situation that these kids can't go again I can't use the bus but now they're on foot but they're going to the other side of the village for the reason that the bus can't pass there. To prove this to us the founder of the school city and the owner of the car transport company is again the same city, hire probably the largest and oldest bus that they have and cannot pass that road, it is narrow, dangerous, it can not turn so much at the intersection etc., etc., although there are no 5.6 of those mini buses, given the number of children it would still be more appropriate. It says here that if children have 3km to the school that it is mandatory to organize that transport, if I am not mistaken to write exactly 3km and then we have a situation that children have until the school of 6,7km, we provide them with a transport of some 4,5km and they continue to walk 2.5km simply because someone simply doesn't want to. He doesn't want it because the proposal came from another political option, and now let's prove to you that it's not going to work, that it's impossible. And the same road passes the trucks of Croatian forests with logs. Now if someone explains to me that one road can't pass a mini bus and a truck of Croatian woods with stakes, I really admit I'm wrong. But I understand a few things, and I'm saying it's simply what my colleagues on this side would say, it's pure demagogy or whatever else, which adjective would attribute here. I am a parent whose kid goes to high school and I've talked to people who work at that school, and I've talked to, and I've got people who work in the neighborhood, I've got a lot of parents in the neighborhood, but they're all against this elimination thing at the mid-term. I haven't talked to any parents from my community yet, with an educator from my community, yet I haven't talked to one of them about having an even neutral attitude towards it, let alone that this solution was welcomed. Everyone says this has done a lot of damage and it's not good, it's just not a good solution. It would be a very good thing if you said OK, we tried, the effects aren't really, they're not positive, you don't even have to say they're negative, but they're not positive, so let's change something. I don't think this is a good solution. There's been a lot of talk here about the status of educators. I know that the status of educators is in a country where the status of all citizens is threatened in some way, that is, the dignity and pride of all citizens, regardless of the profession they do, or the jobs they do but it's well said, once there was a teacher who was a respected person, it was called respectable. Today we have an attack situation both by parents and even by students, not just by parents. If I remember correctly, I'm sorry I'm not here, the former minister was up until a little while ago, I asked a representative question as to what he was thinking about taking on the matter and whether he was going to put into future amendments to the law that the assault on an educational worker was treated as an attack on an official person. I was told that it would be in some future proposal, that it would be considered and that...... And in criminal, and then well, I apologize, but thank you very much for, but the problem is how it works in practice. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah, you can learn anything in the discussion. The problem is how it works in practice, we can't prescribe it by law and say O.K., as of tomorrow, educational workers are respected people and they will be persons to be respected, recognised. It's not a matter that we can nor regulate by law nor overnight. But we need to work systematically on it. I must admit that my impression, the impression I hear and my colleague on this side, but as much as I hear and the workers talking about doing nothing, that they don't see, from their perspective, they don't see anything being done about their dignity, as far as their reputation is concerned, simply that profession is systematically ignored with everyone else. And now in the end, I'm going to say, two, three days ago, I had a conversation with a colleague who lived out there for many years, including his kid, went to school abroad. A foreign school, quite different mentality, obviously, and other habits, and then he cited me as an example of the relationship between the children of the disciples. At that school there was a relationship between two students, you have a problem with each other, how can I help you and you have a problem with us, huh, stupid one that you don't understand. In a foreign school, you know everything, bravo, with us that you're a nerd. But that's a problem that's obviously already going from that stage, we can say from the earliest age when she goes to school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95943	Thank you too, dear colleague. Let's go to the replica set. Dear Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95944	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague, the last thing you said is absolutely unfortunately so, but we can't standard it by law. But I wanted to replicate you for other reasons. So you mentioned the needs of the labour market, who prescribed it, how they are adopted, etc., or who will influence it. Dear colleagues, the Croatian Employment Institute makes recommendations each year that high school and study programmes should reduce registration quotas, which should increase in accordance with the trend of employment of individual professions. I checked on the website of the Croatian Employment Institute, you can also download recommendations for education and registration policy in publications. So we have institutions that follow it, we have those who are invited to say something about it. That's exactly the Croatian Employment Service. You've been dropped by colleagues from the bench, but in recent amendments to the Penal Code, we've introduced a provision that the attack on a teacher or teacher is a criminal offense. So that's, I'm just in the debate about this law, and I think it's also very important in light that some colleagues have previously brought out how much violence against teachers is, above all, frequent in our schools. And at the end of the journey, I can tell you, so you mentioned transportation organized at the beginning and at the end of the shift, but I can tell you from my practice as a teacher or teacher that children have organized facilities in schools while waiting for transportation and it usually is not at the end of the shift, meaning only at the beginning and at the end of the shift but, so at the beginning of the shift and at the end of so on. small shifts and big shifts. It's usually so organized. So it also depends on school to school, but a small shift would be until 5:00 p.m. so that students would possibly spend another hour in sports activities or libraries or creative workshops and then go home. So even though it depends on school to school, but the kids have content while they're at school because the school is responsible for them...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95945	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95946	Here I am already in my debate, and I will repeat my mistake not to notice that there has been this change regarding the attack on educational workers. However, I welcome it as a solution, but I have found the strength to say that I was wrong and to admit it, but it would be nice to hear it from you sometimes. As far as this labour market needs are concerned, let's face it, I may not have been clear enough, with 300 and a few thousand people waiting for us to say okay, we have a plan, I'm talking about the reality of it, what with 300 and a few thousand people who are unemployed, with a black market, how real this really doesn't make sense to talk. It really doesn't make sense to talk. And as far as this transport is concerned, you've said this well, it's up to the schools, from school to school. But I'm warning you that too much has been left to school or from situation to situation, so I'm not in favour of insanity, which you mentioned in a previous replica. But the thing is, then we have a situation, and our kids are like this, like this, they don't play border guards, they don't have any normal activities, they reach for violence, they reach for this, they reach for that. It can't be that, look you have a kid in the 1st grade of primary school waiting two hours. What's he waiting for?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95947	Dear representative Marina Lovric Merzel, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95948	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Novak, I believe that you have raised one very important question in your discussion, and it is really the transportation of children, both primary schools and high schools. I believe that, in general, somewhere along with some exceptions is the well-organized transportation of primary schools except for the one you mentioned, and we know which one we're talking about and that there is this interchange I would say one small transport sometime after 4pm and after 6pm. But, Mr. Minister, I think we have a terrible problem when we're even talking about the right to attend with the possibility of high school for all students who need to go. Namely, the ministry and the government have set in this budget 225 million kunas for the transport of secondary schools per key 75% for a map where there is a line transport. Dear colleagues, in five counties that were badly injured in the war, is it known that almost 70% of the territories of these counties do not exist at all in line transport and that one such approach has made it impossible for children to go to high school because carriers have commercial lines, because they are not agreed transports except for some counties that pay for such transport by means of their means and I think it is a matter that needs to be dealt with in a hurry, and you have touched it. In our county, we know that we funded it with an increased standard of education from our original funds in a way that everyone where there are lines paid 75%, and we organized this 25% with an additional portion of the funds to bring all the children into areas of special state care to be able to go to high school.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95949	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95950	Thank you. So as for this one school I mentioned, you know what school it is, I've also referred to the attorney's question to you, and I've also addressed the counselor for the children. I haven't received any answers from either of you or her yet. I hope it's a positive solution, but it's really embarrassing that two political options are being fired over children, ours, theirs, mine, or the responsible person in this case. As for the transport of this other or in general what you said, there's really no way I'm going to say embarrassing cases. But let's say a concrete move towards Sunja, from Sunja towards Kostanica, now let's say the Croatian railways have abolished the additional lines. And neatly all the students were told, but you have a train. A train that they can take to Sisak. Class starts at two o'clock. They come if I'm not wrong five to 12. They have nights if I'm not wrong at 9:00 from Sisak. Well, that's it. I mean, honestly, that's excruciating those kids. You have if I'm not mistaken the Court is still connected to one bus line a day and then they say you have a line transport. And what happens when, how do you get back? You can leave, but how to get back. One single line in 24 hours. And he's saying that these kids have the same right to school as everyone else. Well, I think it's real. Let's close our eyes in front of everything, the problem I didn't see doesn't exist. Well, we can't act like one. There's something to be done. And whether it's crazy or not, it's too crazy, but if something isn't going to be prescribed, it won't even be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95951	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Duna Spoljar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95952	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear colleague, so the transport of the students was replicated by the MPs and MPs before me, so I wouldn't do much. I'd just add that's another... students waiting for transport, another day’s obligations of teachers and teachers for whom we so easily accept the general social attitude to work three sunny days, three sunny hours a day and that they are two months over the summer at home. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for grading at the end of the first term, teachers and teachers are also raised and educated by their parents. It's a very difficult job, though, much harder than raising students. So parents just want to see the grade and that's all they want to know about their child. And we teachers and teachers would be the happiest to come to school regularly, to talk about our child not only his school duties, but everything else that happens to their child throughout the day. It is a technically measurable success that has been achieved by not estimating at the midterm. So, at the end of the school year where there was no evaluation at the midterm, the overall student's success rate was 0.05% better than when it was. It's formally measured and it's exact. Whether it's better or not, we're gonna leave a little more time and let's see. And at the end of the statement that you're a nerd and a dumbass are one of those statements that the kids heard somewhere. A child who doesn't see his parents with a book in his hand can't even learn to read.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95953	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95954	Even in a difficult situation, a child who doesn't even see his parents because he goes in the dark and comes back in the dark, just doesn't know who's anymore in the dark whether a child or a parent is. But that's the situation I was talking about earlier, so you said you didn't want any further on transportation, but that's the reality of where we live. I can't ignore what it is. As for the work of educators, with all the so far educational workers I've met on the basis of my children's education or acquaintances, I respect them this way and I never thought of thinking about them in a way that these are people who do as you say three sunny days and two months a year plan or do nothing. In fact, these are people who kind of hit the foundations of my child's education, but also all the other children. And I don't accept that it's a general assessment. As for the evaluation, I still assure you that I have not yet encountered a man, a parent, but also an educational worker who has said anything neutrally about it, let alone positively. And they all think this isn't a good solution. But you said yourself it's a negligible relationship. Okay. It didn't give him any positive effects, so that's why we're gonna pull him back. We're not gonna say it was negative, but it didn't give us any positive effects. Well, you have to be aware that there are no positive effects and there won't be any. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95955	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Rajko Ostojić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95956	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague, it's a good thing you've shown one other angle and that's the status of the students, and colleague Spoljar is also very clear in the replica, and in the name of the representative club, he's been saying what is the position of the teachers today and how he's been rapidly getting worse for the past 20 years. And she said and I quote, "The teacher's concept was, the teacher was the concept of students and parents' authority." And indeed, I am convinced that you and I remember your classmates. I remember them today. And they're also in elementary school, so they're shooting school and from 5 to 8th grade, and they're also for me today the concept and authority. And it's good that this debate, that there's no politicizing because we have to get back to that life call. I'm going to quote again to my colleague, the Spelar of Teachers. It's just a life call. And if you're looking at sociology, there's only a few professions that can be said to be a life call and everyone's here. I see even today even here in the Parliament. They're not parliamentary agents, it's not a life call, so you don't get me wrong. These are teachers, priests and doctors among other things As far as politicians are concerned, and as far as lawyers in sociology are concerned, they say when they start to become professions. [[Intruder: And politicians.]] A parliamentary representative is not a profession. Why? Because there was a Croatian nobility that had a standing parliament, Mr. President, until 1848, and only since 1848 did it become a civil assembly and you can be a representative. So, a representative in Croatia can only be the last 160 years and it is not an invitation. The call is what my colleague Spoljar said life call, it's a teacher and it's very important parent you are. You said you were hanging out with your parents. Tell them it's a hard and hard and responsible call. Of course, you all have gagets in your hands, it can't be an ICT call from time to time when these gadgets, the Internet's only been there for 20 years or cameras that have been filming us for 100 years. So, the teacher is a concept, and it is very important that the debate so far indicates that it is still truly rewarded in the true sense of that word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95957	Replicate response, distinguished representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95958	Well, I agree, in essence, with everything you've said, and, I confirm, I remember my elementary school teachers. However, I was trying to point out that the status of educators cannot be regulated by one law. We can't change that status overnight. But what's obvious from the perspective of that frame is that they don't see anything going on about it, that any shifts, they don't even see good will. That's the worst thing they can't see. And as for the fact that you're glad not to politicize, I'm afraid I have to be honest and say that every time something is treated as politicizing, no matter how life's problem that label came from that side. You can't say that UNICEF is a populist or a demagogue, but their data is official data, and when we use it, then we're demagogues and populists. And yet, you agree, that's not politics?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95959	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. A respected representative of counterpart Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95960	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague and I are as glad as you have done, and everyone else to make special efforts to protect the teacher's person and even criminally, on this trail indeed follow the changes. Because the teacher's profession is what creates all the other professions. But there's no fear of it when you say that that side will tell us about when you were telling the student transport that we're going to say it's just a demagogy. It's not a demagogy because your children are provided with a transport of 85%, this government does, and for poor children and children from flooded areas 100%. That's not how we testify just four, five, six years ago. I had one... it was generally known to be, and ever since your mother came from the Benkovec area and said I have three medals, I can't afford to pay them a ride to school because the transportation subsidy was lifted. I have to decide, I can only pay one child, how to decide which child I'm going to condemn, almost condemn him to deny his studies, which means really condemning him to some life sentence. When you said that the learning about thinking outside was developed, I think that if you looked at the strategy of education, science and technology and what the minister said exactly how our children should therefore turn more and logically think. But then she would really agree with you if learning without thinking was empty. But also thinking without learning is dangerous. And I'm going to tell you one more thing, what's very important is to take care of and the purity of that call, you can imagine in Zadar High School, it wasn't happening for blackest communism, that the school principal interrupts school, invites students to open his meeting and that pre-election meeting, which parties? Is it necessary to say? HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95961	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for warning your classmates from the bench. Replicate response, distinguished representative Mladen Novak. ... My colleague Dujomir Marasovic if you are bored I suggest at my expense coffee downstairs. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] For all of you from HDZ if you can. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It can't be here. Replicate response, distinguished representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95962	Thank you very much. You know what the worst part is? When you have a right and you can't make it happen. That's what puts people in despair. And what did you say about the cost of transporting children and the declared right of any insured means that you have a single daily line from the Court? You have villages upriver from Sisak Sava, which public transport? You have a downriver from Sisak Sava that public transport? What organized school transport? You have complete Banovina and there is no transport. Well, we can't lie to ourselves and talk, okay, there's something on the paper. The worst part is when there's something on your paper and you can't make it happen. You have a situation that a few months ago the children went under normal through a minefield to school, in the 21st century. And what did we do? Now we make them walk not into one village but another village. It's our contribution to that. So I'm thinking about talking about having someone right. Thank you very much for such a right.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95963	It's called the nudim yus - naked right. Let's move on with the replicas. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95964	Thank you. I mean, this is an important subject to ideologies on it, and I agree with all those who avoid it. And the fact that someone is as educated as Duje or me in socialism, and today we're on each other's left on the right is just proof that his knowledge is medically valid regardless of the ideological premise of the system in which he's been educated, so that science can be without ideas in that sense, but in terms of profession, etc. And that's what we should be trying to do. I am from the field of education alone, until I have begun to earn bread here as a professional politician and I am glad to talk about this subject, and I think there is no happy society, nor can there be a happy society unless it is those who carry human knowledge accumulated to younger generations and themselves happy or satisfied. And so these are the people who work in the field of education, and that is why everyone together, and there really doesn't matter what political orientations we are, we have to contribute as much as anyone who can personally and as members of certain parties and as people who live in the world of politics, to change bad in favour of those who are involved in education. I was actually motivated by this evaluation story. I am also, so I am a teacher myself and I am educated something here, something out here and on some other continents, and that question is not sucked out of a small finger, it is accessible and wider than Croatia. And I'm a supporter of the fact that it's not an evaluation of the most important, especially at the mid-term, it's ultimately valorizing. And what my colleague Spolar said even showed that 0.5% doesn't matter is even better results in the end. So, it doesn't matter how full you're gonna get at half the game but what's the result at the end of the game.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95965	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Mladen Novak. I'm sorry, I didn't see.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95966	He saw a colleague. As far as this evaluation is concerned, whatever we decide to do not now in terms of this evaluation, not in terms of education, but in any segment of social activities, whatever you want, sport will always find an example that there is already such a thing in the world. Well, we can't handle that. The fact is, you say there are data, I have to admit that I read some other data at least in our daily paper, it was quite the opposite of what you claim. But it's amazing, or it's just my middle of it where people argue against it, or I'm reading some guilty newspaper that says that petition is an appeal and a parent, and educational workers against it. I don't know, I'm afraid we won't be able to agree here and make a deal. All the things you said before, I sign in the same part you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95967	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Goran Maric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95968	Comrade Novak, removing the grades, when something changes the fundamental rule is that you must have a valid reason why you are changing, a good and justifiable reason. When the grades were cut, there was no analysis at all, nor was there any reason why this changed, and there are thousands of reasons why it was not needed to be changed. Maybe I'm meeting the wrong people, maybe I'm meeting the wrong people, and I'm hanging out with the wrong people. No professor of hundreds of teachers, a professor of university, high school, a colleague of mine told me it was a good move, no one, so much about it. When speaking to the illogicalities spoken, it was illogical to cut grades, and the status of teachers and teachers from a once respected call came to a thankless job. We have to admit it has contributed to politics, both parents and students. Parents are very aggressive, as well as some naughty students. And policy with regard to, first of all, to wages and all other status has contributed to the collapse of that reputation. It is not good for illogicality to be constantly copied, and new illogicalities are being written into the law. For example, licensing a director, so it's not licensed to function, it's licensed to call, profession, profession, so it's more natural to license a teacher, teacher and teacher than a principal, but then why not license a dean or rector, or hospital director? So much illogicality, while at the same time licensed, can also be registered pedophile. Well, the most important thing for our children is to move away, make it impossible for a registered pedophile to come 100 meters from the children, from any child. And here I'm afraid he'll find himself a teacher and a professor, and maybe even a director who'll be a disaster. One such impeccable case will cause great damage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95969	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95970	Well, fellow Maric, I have to admit I'm worried. It seems that me and you are avoided by those who think differently because the fact is that neither of us has been able to meet with either parent or educator who would at least have a neutral attitude towards this evaluation. Everyone has pleaded negatively about it, and I believe we're reading the wrong newspaper, given that we've read the paper a lot different than the ones we hear here. It will be our turn to work on ourselves and agree with the opinion we hear here. You were talking about the status of teachers or in general workers in protest. You've been talking about the pay, the policy has affected the level of their wages, but politics has affected this political system, which we obviously seek together. Unfortunately, we're part of it, too, but not by our will that there's no more security, there's no human solidarity, there's not all the values that should be, that adorn the human race, we run away from it, we become simply runners for something material, it's just being admitted. Today is a more respected manager who will make the transfer of one player from football club A to football club B than all educational workers at a particular school. And when he comes to some opening, which was just before the case, the opening of some event, the whole school can come, I can bring all the students from that school, but if the person who made the transfer of one of our players didn't come, then there's no...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95971	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Dear colleagues and colleagues, please welcome the students of the University of Mostar and the staff of the University of Mostar Student Centre. I would also like to highlight the speciality of this University of Mostar, it is the only university outside of Croatia that has both a copy and a lecture in Croatian. I want them to make progress so that the more they enroll rich students from rich countries and that on the university ladder they get to a respectable place under... the university. Can we give a round of applause...? And I want the students, of course, to study successfully. [[Applause.]] Thank you very much. Dear colleague Jasen Mesic. Here you go, Your Honor. We continue to debate the clubs of representatives on the topic which is on the agenda, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Raising and Education in primary and secondary schools with the Final Proposal for Law. The Croatian Democratic Community Club and Honored Representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95973	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. When I entered the assembly this morning, then I saw the Secretary of the Navy sitting there in his practically usual place, but I guess some discipline happened from the SDP club, so they transferred him to this side, I guess, to keep an eye on him, I guess, or by some other influence, I don't think it was necessary this time, since the minister came from his place, I guess the ruling coalition is thinking about everything and who's going to sit down. We'll start with procedure, it's marked no. 763 or P.Z.E. thus harmonising with the European legislative acquis with the acquis communautaire. The real question is how much of it is in this law that goes according to the urgent process of harmonising with the European Directive and how many amendments have been made that many colleagues and colleagues have said can be better or worse. A large part of today's speakers have estimated that most of these changes are better than we had before in the law, but this is not a harmonisation with the European Union, or with the acquis of the European Union. It should not be necessary to amend and supplement the laws which have experienced 7 or 8 amendments and to become increasingly unreadable and unreadable, to push in such a way as not to say to smuggle certain amendments and amendments to the law under compliance with the European Union. Do not let it happen to you as the Ministry of Culture, which in 3 years of office has not proposed any whole law but all amendments and additions. Only because of these series of changes and additions might it be possible to agree that it is also time to go into the making of a new Law on Education and Education on Primary and High School, it would be much more visible, much more legible, and much could be solved in a different way. Of course, this law is passed within a broader framework that we must not forget. One of them is, of course, the budget in 2015. The minister himself said when he made the budget that he wasn't satisfied. Some former Ministers of Science and Education used to tell me their experiences where they sought and sometimes found ways to defend resources intended for science and education under the threat of their resignations. If we had done so at the time in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it would have been easier to implement these provisions that make these amendments and amendments to the laws, which many will agree to, however, improve what was before. Also, this law, amendments and additions to the law are passed under the adopted Strategy for Education and Education, which provides for the same growth in funding for education and education. Unfortunately, it's not like that in practice. Moreover, in the final part of this law, it is said that no additional means will be required for the application of the law. However, if you know the law is passed, amendments to the income tax law that will reflect on local administration and self-government are a big question of how some of the provisions of this law will continue to apply. And on the parent committees, we also tried to look at these committees quite well-intentionedly at these amendments and additions proposed by this law. Of course, there are issues that have not been resolved, and when they have already gone into urgent changes and complemented, let's say the midterm evaluation issue. And today in the daily press, you can read different thoughts, and then when the midterm evaluation was lifted, we claimed that there were no adequate initiatives. I don't know about this information that the lady who spoke on behalf of the SDP club said about increasing efficiency, but the fact is that the assessment is in some way also a warning to parents, but also a motive for the students and that there was a real possibility that when you were in these changes and supplements to consider resolving this issue. Of course we were also in favour of applying small graduations when we enrolled in high school, and we were also hoping that it would remain as one of the criteria that could contribute to transparency and the possibility of better valorizing student success in enrolment in high school. Of course, it is very controversial, as some colleagues have already pointed out, the question of making a deal with a school board that is not an employer and that we really cannot find a parallel example where it could be connected to this. The question of licences for directors and the extension of that deadline, i.e. the launch of a new tender procedure for the selection of directors. The question is, of course, what happens to the old principals, how they get paid when they're no longer directors, and then automatically if a new director gets hired, the one who wasn't... did not act that way or came out of that school and applied to that place. What about the old principals? You will automatically increase the amount of funds you pay. And yet there is no claim that they do not need additional funding. We are all saying this together because we are burned by an example of the vote of the strategy in this Croatian Assembly where we have even held discussions about having the strategy adopted unanimously, however, there was an even greater drop in funding for education, education and science. Apparently, what regulates these amendments and the additions of the laws, we can agree that they represent a certain improvement, but it is reportedly a question of what we have done in the past 2.5 years at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and how many, in particular, parliamentary majority, for these failures, for lost time, for the fall of the criteria that took place in this system, we bear responsibility. In this regard, the HDZ Club looks positively at the adoption of this law, but at the same time warns of any possible consequences that may be caused by the provisions that are being adopted with it, and in an urgent procedure, which can be opened. We don't believe any more stories after 2.5 years, we don't believe anything that's written only in strategies unless there's something that should be followed because they're financial resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95974	Replica, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95975	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Mesic, we always sort of go back to the strategy and with the strategy I would like to begin. In fact, I was personally disappointed by the fact that the policy promoter was willing to listen first and foremost to all those who had something to say about the strategy. Your colleagues sitting on the Education Committee and you're here, although I don't think you've had any bigger objections than any of your other colleagues and colleagues, all the objections have been respected, included in the strategy, and in the end you were against, or held back, you weren't in favour. It's something that personally disappointed me. As far as the budget itself is concerned, I would be unhappy and to set aside 10% of our GDP for education, but if we are already talking about strategy and its funding then I will also tell you because of the Croatian public what the ministry predicted for the strategy. And this is, now that I'm not reading the divisions but just their descriptions, making a curriculum student questionnaire 12 million kuna, the project of basic education reform is planned in an almost triple amount of nearly 300,000 kuna, licensing of school directors, development of secondary education 741 000 kuna, development of a quality assurance system of nearly 600 000 kuna, development of an adult education system to create the assumption of implementing the education strategy of 4 million kuna, 20 million kuna for pre-financing of e-school pilot, capital investment in primary school is reserved 21 million kuna, i.e. the completion of basic schools of Novo Čice, Pokkkalje, Pujanka and construction of primary school.... So there are no facts that you have repeatedly tried to input, which is that there is no financial means to implement the strategy. Of course they're limited, of course they're consistent with the moment we live in, but they exist. And as far as the evaluation is concerned, I think it's a very bad system in which the student's only motive is the student's grade. What my colleague Novak was saying if I'm not mistaken, so the student's motive should first of all be knowledge and only a secondary evaluation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95976	Jasen Mesic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95977	Dear colleague, we have clearly stated our reasons why we have been abstentioned to adopt a strategy. After a series of meetings, we have always repeated one and the same comment, which is that no financial platform is provided for the implementation of what is written. Imagine how disappointed you would have to be yourself when a month before you voted in the strategy and then voted in favour of a budget that reduces resources and does not support strategies. Well, then you have your own problems if you're disappointed in us for warning us that the funds won't be. Then you have a problem with yourself being disappointed because you're twice unprincipled. We put ourselves here in principle, we said okay, we can understand the strategy, we can understand everything it brings. We support the vast majority of that. Good afternoon, where are the funds? After that comes the vote of the budget to you clearly and the minister in charge of that part of the budget, i.e. Minister Mornar says of course that I am not too satisfied, because simply that part does not follow everything he is prescribed in the strategy. And now we're talking, we can all vote unanimously, but it won't lead to the belief that what we all care about, that we have a better, more efficient, more efficient, more productive system of education that will actually produce certain quality human resources for the future. Unfortunately, we're afraid this time too. And that's why we keep warning us about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95978	Tomislav Jagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95979	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Mesic. If you could imagine a situation where a surgeon who lived 200 years ago and a teacher who lived 200 years ago would have been found in this House on a time trip, a surgeon would not have been able to find himself in an operating room. The teacher would probably start writing on the board right away. The school system is changing very slowly. It's a big system and they say that the world around us is changing a hundred times faster than the school system. So don't be so surprised that we have the amendments and additions to the Law on elementary schooling, high schooling here again. We have the truth in the schools of experimental programs, but school isn't experimented with. As far as the Director's election is concerned, I'm going to point out again. The principals are elected by the school board. The school board and manages the school. A major impact on the school board has units of local self-government and regional self-government through their representative bodies. In that sense, because if otherwise determined as at the time of Minister Vokic was to be abruptly overnight... It would once again be an attack on local self-government units and again talk about centralised. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think this system is good despite certain abuses, and it's on the ground. I am a witness to where individual directors are chosen only on the basis of belonging to a political party. But this system still determines a certain influence of local self-government units which is good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95980	Jasen Mesic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95981	Dear fellow, the textbook should be read from page one to page one and exactly how the curriculum determines the teaching thematic units. So if you've listened carefully we've established that this law is an improvement. We warn of what might be even better with the desire to change and supplement as little as possible once they have been amended and supplemented by an emergency procedure in order to comply with the EU directive because it will happen again if we do so, so let's do the best we can. So that's the point. We also pointed out that it is still an improvement. As far as I'm concerned... The problem is he's signing the labor contract, you know. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not a problem of governance, of mismanagement, it's really not the owner or the employer. So that's one form we consider questionable in this variant. That's not where we question everything else. Of course we insist on financial resources. You have a situation not far from Zagreb in Novi Čiè di has taken over the completion of the school, they have an alleged promise from the ministry, the resolution ministry that the funds will be recovered after the job is done. We hope that's the way it's gonna be. But with this asset reduction, we doubt it. And then all these nice words that we're talking about both strategy and this law, of course, fall into the water.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95982	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95983	My colleague Mesic, ten days ago we discussed the budget here, the Law on the financing of units of local self-government. Today we are talking about a strategy, a strategy of something where the Law on the financing of units of local self-government, units of local self-government to finance decentralised functions of primary and secondary education, has been taken over 400 million kuna. And right now, I'm curious about what the minimum standards in primary and secondary education will look like, which the ministry is obliged to make there, say, by the month of February, since the Alignment Fund has been increased by 240 million, and the decentralised functions have been taken away by 900 million kuna. So I'm very interested in these 400 and some million more how much the decentralised funds have been reduced to counties and those 30 cities that have received founding rights in basic education that will cover it and whether basic standards, minimum standards in primary and secondary education will change or remain similar or fully identical this year. The question is then asked which funds will be financed, as this bill, as well as many who have come to the proposal, in fact, the reasoning of the necessary funds, says that there is no need to provide additional resources. However, if we reflect this on the laws adopted by this House of Commons, with opposition to the opposition, then the question arises as to what the minimum standards will be financed, given that the budget of the Ministry of Education is already very tense and they do not have any internal supplies to redistribute those funds, and the position of the Ministry of Finance and the position of units of local self-government will be lacking in that position somewhere around 700 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95984	Jasen Mesic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95985	Dear fellow Shuker, not that he's too tense. So you stood out a few years ago that someone forgot to write their wages for 12 months. Did he forget, or did he do it on purpose, because it was appropriate for him to make a budget? Now, if you'd replicated that to some of your esteemed colleagues from the SDP, they would have read you three, four items of several hundred thousand kunas, and you're practically talking about 900 million kunas that local administration and self-government have lost. Of course, this will reflect, of course, what we have voted on the amendments and additions to that law that you have stated almost ten days ago that it will reflect on the quality of education and education that is required to provide local units of administration and self-government. It will be seen very soon by the mayors and mayors of the ruling coalition. It can even be seen in some media that some of them are trying to point it out to the government of the Republic of Croatia and to the parliamentary majority of the Kukuriku coalition, but alive have been seen. I also know that it is very nice to write that the law does not require additional funding but I am afraid that once again when you talk about the budget or again at the end of the year about the implementation of the budget when you say that you will have to point out again what you have previously pointed out, and that is that there is no means for the functioning of education and education. I hope this time, at least for wages, that's enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95986	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU colleague Ljiljana Cvetović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95987	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Most of the proposed amendments to the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools are acceptable and we hold that it will significantly help organise school work. In the future, it should be taken into account that the amendments and amendments to the law as new laws for the system of education are adopted at the latest in late June in order to prepare the new school year for the accepted changes. During the year, it is not desirable to amend the provisions concerning all participants in the educational process. The 2010 law stipulates that directors are based on a working relationship for a certain period of time. Until then, they had established a working relationship indefinitely with the term of office of 4 years, and all directors who had been directors and had remained in an unfavourable position before 2010 because if they were not re-elected they remain unemployed and the new director has no obligation to hire them and in a possible place of freedom. Such disfellowshipped directors are about 500 in primary and secondary schools. Directors are the only ones in the education system who have a working relationship for a certain time. And before they became directors, they all had a working relationship to indefinitely. The amendments to the law are as a condition for the Director to be introduced a licence with a deadline of 1 January 2012, and when the deadline was received it was moved by 1 January 2015. The proposal now moves again on 1 January 2017. We consider this deadline unrealistic because in the Strategy for the Development of Science, Education and Technology, part of it is related to the management and management that attributes the creation of a competent standard of directors, training programmes and the implementation of licensing. These days, the deadlines set out in the strategy move by one year from the planned deadlines in the strategy because all of these tasks can only begin in 2015 and are planned by the same adoption of the new Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, which has changed since 2008. The programme and verification of 1300 existing directors as well as those who wish to be so that all candidates are in an equal position and conditions. The first directors can be licensed at the end of 2017 and can be expected to be all covered by the end of 2018, which means that only from 1 January 2019 could it be required that all directors meet the requirements of obtaining a work licence. Since we are in favour of the competence of the Director, we also believe that the licensing should not lead to the tender procedure of all directors at the same time and thus spend huge resources needlessly from the state budget, but that the tender procedures go towards the end of the existing mandates, provided that the mandate can continue after 1 January 2019 only with the licence lodged. Complementary work for students who at the end of the year have one or two negative grades is a novelty in the high school system. The question is how this work will be organised, as 15 to 50% of students are sent to corrections, which is dependent on school, while at the same time conducting state graduation and defence exams. Teachers ask the question of additional burdens for which no specific payment is provided, and this measure can also be understood as an incentive for student calculating by selecting items that will not be taught over the year that they can quickly overcome it in the longer term. It is not clear in the amendments to the law whether such supplementary work will be mandatory for a student, whether or not to be recorded and justified, too. The practice in high schools so far shows that students very rarely pass on the summer correction period does it take them more time to compensate for all year’s unskilling and lack of learning, and we believe that the autumn deadline is effective. In any event, it would also refer to the mid-term final assessment that was abolished with an explanation that the teachers of stress work would be relieved, and students of increased learning and stress before the holidays. Although almost the entire educational public was against this change, it was nevertheless adopted. In most schools, the measure did not prove positive, in some schools the situation with grades remained the same as before, and no school has shown that student success is now better. For parents and students, the final score at the mid-term was full and clear feedback and affected the realistic perception of its progress and motivation in improving grades. Now students often have no idea that they should start learning before spring break because they still have time. Final estimates at the mid-term are in the Croatian pedagogical tradition and parents are still at parental meetings asking if it will come back. In the end, it would certainly highlight the overall chronic pain of our education and education system, which is insufficient investment and inconsistency with time and latest achievements in the field of education. The result of a regular reduction in the budget amount of dedicated investment in teachers, equipment and education as a whole is that today we have a large number of highly educated people with difficult knowledge, people who act important duties in society, and without ideas, visions, suggestions, people who are not prepared or learned to make decisions because they are insecure in themselves. It is a devastating fact, an international survey of computer literacy by the International Association for the Valuation of Educational Achievements that 15% of Croatian teachers do not use computers at all in the teaching process of students. While in other countries that participated in research, that percentage is below 9. Minister Navarre himself says that until we start investing more in education, we're just going to sink.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95988	Branko the Hill of Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95989	Thank you very much. Well, here's an esteemed colleague, actually, I agree with most of what you've been saying, and this really is something that clearly needs to be returned because everyone's looking for it. You were talking about directors and actually solving the issues of those who will run for directors to provide them with a job so that they can continue and that's also absolutely fine because otherwise we have a bad selection. But I'd just like to add something to this piece of yours about that part, it's about the management of schools. Namely, we have today the fictitious founders of schools and primary and secondary, fictitious because they are either local self-government or county. They basically don't have any influence on those schools. And we have one parallel system that appears, no one will object naturally to teachers, teachers who work at school, and on the other hand you have a responsibility as founder and you don't have a majority on the school board. So, even in that part, you're disabled because it happens today that you have three people, so two from the scientific council, one from the line of employees where they all vote and choose again, and then you have three meanings of the founders' ranks and you have one parent representative. The parent is always in principle with that part of the chamber itself, you actually have a fictitious founder who today has a strange way of having a responsibility and has no role in principle except to take some responsibility when necessary because he is the founder. So it's connected to this part of the principal. Yeah, if you were to nod her head if she wasn't tied up, it's because the school board is choosing the principal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95990	Reply to the replica Ljiljana Cvetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95991	I'm sorry, I was nodding my head because in my debate, I didn't talk about it at all. Well, I was talking about directors and their licensing. So, I didn't even mention management.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95992	On behalf of the SDSS representative club, counterpart Dragan Montenegrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95993	Dear Vice President, Mr. Mariner, colleagues and colleagues here is the law, amendments and additions to the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools. And as the Prime Minister said at the beginning of today's opening statement, this law is very important, i.e. these amendments and additions very important to bring, it is very important to bring now at this point at the end of this year. And he said finely that he was one of the reasons, and she's already been a legal provision so far that the directors have to be licensed, and that's something we're not gonna be able to do by the end of this year. And that's why we have to do it, unfortunately, once again. That these aren't the amendments and additions to the laws that were initiated by the strategy we discussed, brought and adopted, but here's the thing. At the very beginning, I must say that our club, our club in the Parliament, will support these amendments and additions to the law. I'd say this is the minimum at this point that we can accept and that's why we'll support it. We have proposed that in these amendments and additions, and I hope that the following year when special separate laws are announced, the Law on education and education in elementary school and, in particular, the Law on Education and Education in high school will further regulate those issues that are not covered now. And it is important for us to stress because we think it was extremely important to prescribe that, for example, in transitional and final provisions be made clearer, more precisely, what every body of state, local, regional self-government must do and within what time. We don't think that at that point and at that point, there could possibly be any escapades or avoidance of legal regulations in a creative way by, say, founders. Among other things, what we thought was still to be arranged is an example of the questions of the school board, but not of some major changes but of the respect of Article 119 on the proportionate representation and appointment of members of the school board, since the founders have so far been creatively able to avoid or do what is not in the law, is not in the spirit of the law and is not in the spirit of that article which clearly defined proportional representation. We have a lot of these examples on the ground. Another thing I would say is that what could still be solved by this law or by additional rules is the rule on the weekly work obligations of teachers, professional associates in primary school, especially when it comes to schools where teaching is done or is intended for members of national minorities in the languages and letters of national minorities, since we know that there are fewer students, these are generally fewer schools, so to speak,... but in general there are fewer schools and we think that they should be arranged for them as well as teachers in island and mountain schools. Furthermore, we have proposed, I think, and I hope that some of the following laws will prescribe the adoption of a special rule for teachers in the languages and letters of national minorities because it is an absolutely unregulated area, even of a person, so to speak, are employed in part-time, and there is no way of choosing them, so who chooses them, which are their obligations, in which they can be replaced or someone else employed, and that is something that is absolutely necessary to further regulate new legal proposals. What I still want to say in this part, and let me remind you, the state of the teaching facilities, I know that the problem in finance, I know that the problem, let me say, is that the whole state has barely ended up, and not now that we're going to be doing some facilities, but unfortunately in some past periods some schools have been restored, and schools that, let's say, and even... that we come from, in war areas haven't been restored in Vukovar since the aftermath of the war, and there's a lot of talk about Vukovar. In Vukovar, you still have schools that are not restored in the middle... and children attend school in such institutions or, say, they are primary schools, or, say, the problem of the high school in Vukovar which sinks, land gives way or the problem of economic school that has not been solved today. We've had opportunities to hear that the savings that are spoken of in the full budget are not enough... I think they've always pointed out and now I'm going to repeat that they've been participated, especially in this part of an extremely large, even more than is said in some other paragraphs. The funds for activities have been reduced by more than 50%, but let's say I'll say only one which is already a problem, and there's a former minister who can confirm it, that's the problem of the textbook, because last year, and this year, new textbooks were found in use, but for members of national minorities, however, not provided enough resources to translate all textbooks into languages and letters of national minorities who learn content in their language and letter in school. So I think it's important to point out that here's another year, these funds aren't secured at a sufficient, sufficient amount. I'm just going to give you an example that I think it was 2008, 2009 when even this, then there was a free textbook program, only the Serb national minority for its 92 titles in elementary school, it was necessary to provide 8 million kuna, only Serbian. And I once again point out here that the great savings were made on these items. I can't say that we didn't know that we didn't have a conversation on the subject with the ministry, but somehow it was an agreement to find funds in the budget for next year that would be enough for all these new textbooks to be translated, not to be old, or not to learn from old textbooks or textbooks that aren't translated into languages and letters of national minorities in which they learn. Here's what I said. This is the minimum we're gonna support the SDSS club and that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95994	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95995	Thank you very much. A fellow Montenegrin, you mentioned in a relatively short period of your presentation to the school board. In fact, we all know how the school boards are formed, so three members have a founder, one is a parent member and three are from school employees. I think no matter how much we swear here it's kind of apolitical, but we can't say that it's a matter of politics in the management and work of school boards, especially when it comes to the selection of directors. So the founder's influence is crucial. I think it would be much better, but it's not about this law, it's about each other if the school's employees decided exclusively about the school's headmaster. So schools and mainly in the selection of directors would become apolitical, which should otherwise be in education and education because we raise and educate children of all members of any party, etc. But school and education should be apolitical. Unfortunately, no such thing is foreseen here, but I think school employees know best who or most of them on the school board, so they don't lose both regional or local self-government contact with school. But imagine any school regardless of the principal and his political orientation that does not have any good relationship or any relationship with the head of the municipality or with the head of the county who is the founder of a primary school in a village. It doesn't matter what political events are the school's principals. That's why I think the school boards should have the upper hand of the school's employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95996	Thank you. Dragan Montenegrin responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95997	Mr. Grubisic, if you ask current employees about their experiences in the current way of determining appointments of members of the school board, I think they will say that so far this is actually one of the best ways of naming and relations on the school board, and after that selecting the school director or director. Unfortunately, you've said a good thing, I'd say depoliticization, so unfortunately when we all politicize, we get involved in a school where we should be least present and then we have to talk like it was a depoliticization of the police, too shouldn't be politics here, but unfortunately she's present and we have to deal with these things then. I think that, as I said at this point, a great role in determining the elections and above all, the principal or director of the school have these four members who come not from the founders but from the school itself, and I think that even the mandatory vote by the representatives of the school board is when they make a decision or, therefore, by teaching or parenting, he cannot define his voice differently but for those candidates who have already made a decision on those councils. And besides what you were saying, and what I think you should do, although maybe a lot of people are going to say that you shouldn't, the school principal or I would say better headmaster of school, I think that should give you a little bit more width. I would give there that there can be not only educational workers but all other employees as managers for reasons because they also have at their disposal a secretary who is a lawyer and a educator and psychologists and captains and all those who need him to do the job well. Then why don't you be a school manager or a school manager, not come from an education worker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95998	Thank you. Marina Lovric Merzel, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u95999	Thank you very much. You mentioned the importance of organized school facilities in your presentation. Namely, so that both children and teachers and teachers and directors would have the opportunity to do quality work. I must say that this particularly highlights the importance of mayors, mayors and counties and here, especially the ministries. Through the decentralised assets that are divided by the investment ratio, it is evident in this budget that the state is very much giving to rebuilding school facilities, and then there is a very important county, cooperation with the city, and a key director is, and here I agree with you on which one big initiative depends. I'm going to set an example of areas of special state concern. In Sisak-Moslavina County, every school in every city in every municipality is fully decorated, completely renovated, each has a school hall, each has a classroom, each has computers and I would say by standards, and I know you're talking about iron conditions that need to be met. The director is also dependent on specificities because, for example, the school of Iron, which has continued to cultivate language and culture since 2006, and you know what it means, it is one big step towards such areas and needs of children and parents who want their children to attend and thus educate and cultivate their language and culture. I agree with this law, with this sentence that directors must have one greater width, that this must not be politicised, but must be responsible because the county that owns and founders of individual schools also has financial responsibility and says it must cover all the obligations and debts of its institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96000	Thank you. Dragan Montenegrin responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96001	I'm glad if that's how you described it in Sisak-Moslavina County, if that's how I'm happy. I would like to have such conditions in all the counties of all Croatia. But what I was saying and I actually had in mind, I was thinking of a much bigger area, so you were talking about these decentralised means. But in the Ministry of Education of all previous years, however, there have been quite a lot of resources that seem to me to be related to the school of construction. From both these and other funds, schools have been built in other areas of the Republic of Croatia which I agree with and I am glad that they were built and that we did not prioritize. And in my opinion, the priority should be the area under special national care or the area that has been affected by the war... I mentioned that if you heard that those schools that haven't yet been rebuilding from that time and all this time have been patched up and rags not in a way to patch up those things that come out of the rules of satisfaction of learning in classrooms etc., but rather installations, heating, roofing etc.. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I think there's a clear need to make a full recovery of those schools. And while at the same time in other parts of Croatia, they have made a huge school where, for example, you have to hire another five cleaning girls just to clean your windows at that school because there are so many glass surfaces that simply those who have been employed can't make it. So there were funds just needed to make a different order of priorities. And unfortunately we are still in such a state that these schools and facilities, many objects do not satisfy services. And I'm glad if it's in Sisak-Moslavina County, I suppose it was your contribution, but I hope it will be in other parts of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96002	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96003	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, the school facilities are not just in the war-suffering areas, unfortunately there are many and many buildings and objects that are really old in this part of Zagreb today and where there are no conditions for work, or where the conditions are very bad and schools should be preserved in those environments because when the school is shut down, everything disappears in principle. Today we strive only to look at things economically as cheap as possible and in principle if we look at the price as something to measure children and education with, then we have made a huge mistake because it is simply immeasurable financially. I've reported to the school boards, as you said, you should find maybe some way and a model, define it by law that really people have a chance in the chambers to plead, choose those who will guide them but also that the founder as founder has some fuse in that part again. Perhaps on the school board, the founder gives, that the president of the school board is elected from the founders' ranks. Because now this model that is, so literally 3-3-1 works and it's not so bad because going against the classroom doesn't make much sense, but maybe, but it can be a field problem in practice. There have been problems before and in the other when there may have been something natural. I actually volunteered to replicate to you about the textbooks, about the translation of minority textbooks. Unfortunately, funds disappear for all children, unfortunately for minorities, but there is also a problem for other children. Because we have discrimination in Croatia regarding free education. So some units of local self-government buy books, others don't buy books, children are not in an even position, which is basically a big problem that needs to be solved and balanced.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96004	Dragan Montenegrin, reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96005	Well, here's what I'm gonna do from the first one you've come from. I think that when we adopted the strategy amongst other things it was said that here we hope and that the strategy if we adopt it is and we adopted it, we contributed to the fact that separations from the state budget for education will be greater for science and technology overall. However, unfortunately, here for 2015 we failed, or it was not a crucial moment to increase the funds. Yes, it would be good if there were enough resources, I hope then there would be enough resources for the restoration of school facilities and textbooks, etc., but unfortunately we are in such a situation that there is no. But that's why I think we need to make a list of priorities as I've already said what we're going to do with so few resources and those resources that we can possibly use and withdraw for these things. As far as the school boards are concerned, so to speak, I know an experience where a school principal told me to kick these out of the county and even kick my parents out. I've been thinking that, you know, they're making it easier for them to work pedagogically and talk to people who know the profession. But maybe it wouldn't be bad if in certain situations on the school boards that I said in my experience so far was the best model that the right to decide those people based on their proposal to the school boards. Let's say those who come from a part of the founders that they're discussing school finances, what will be done at school and that part that comes from the professor's profession that they're discussing what they're going to do within the school itself with teaching, curricula, program etc.. And finally, as far as the textbooks are concerned. The textbooks are as I said and in the discussion new printed and they are in use but for minorities there are no translated textbooks.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96006	Thank you. Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96007	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Montenegroc and I have noticed these allegations about the condition of the facilities and indeed there are various examples and various environments where the conditions in these facilities are really unacceptable and not allowed for normal teaching. But there are also those positive examples where efforts and units of local and regional self-government have been preserved and built, built and equipped and served neatly mainly in regional schools that are equally important. But look, now this new law on the financing of local self-government units will be maimed, it's undeniable, local self-government units. And in that, it will certainly be preschool education, not to mention all those moments of life in those units, and in particular they will reflect on schooling, they will be particularly reflected because every day we see that the funds are really missing, and these directors are suffering a great deal of pain. And then there's what Mr. Minister says he's worried, so I'm worried too. Of course I'm worried, but I'm also worried about these district schools. With that announcement from the former minister who's now out of town, we're going to have to cancel the district schools. We'll cut out district schools that don't have enough students, we'll cut out. So what kind of access to the knowledge society is this, please? What is this approach to the knowledge society? Well, those schools are the bearers of life and culture and all kinds. It's a way of life, it's part of our pedagogical tradition and everything together. The mail's been canceled. If the schools are canceled, why do we need more? Rural areas are, in some ways, in a very difficult situation, even if such trouble were to happen, so I think it would be good for the current minister to hear it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96008	Replication response, Dragan Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96009	Okay, I think he hears the minister I guess everything we're saying. But as for what you said, you know, district schools are hard to quit, especially when it comes to schools that have class classes because the law says that students from 1st to 4th grade shouldn't travel outside of their place of residence. That's the first thing. And the other thing, as far as this and the new law on the financing of local self-government units, it seems to me that you're talking about, you're right. But it would be a question of what the founders of the local and regional self-government units have done so far, whether they were always waiting for the state and whether they had done everything they could. I'd say they didn't. They didn't have to wait for the state. You could from your budget, from these decentralised funds, from additional funds to regulate the state of educational or school facilities in your units of local or regional self-government. It rarely happened, we've always waited for the deinstitutionalization of the vast majority of states yes, but we could, I mean, the units of local self-government have dedicated their resources and not small funds to build let's say entrepreneurial zones, economic zones, they've even been in debt. And who was in charge, and who set out a higher amount for rebuilding or building school facilities? Almost no one. It is in that part of the sports halls because it is there, yes, because it can be multi-purpose then all the residents can use it and then you have satisfied citizens. But it's also school, which is why I say school is also one of the needs of law and I don't think we're enough in local and regional self-government units to do maybe as much as we could, enough. I'm sure the situation should be fixed as you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96010	Thank you. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96011	... Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] The club of independent representatives who I am headed will support this debate on education and education, first of all because the old Greeks have noticed that it is permanent in this world only change, changes happen without our will, and we are involved in these changes each in our own way. On the other hand, I advocate Croatia's Development Strategy, a long-term development strategy, and the two of them need to be reconciled somehow, find ways to recognise continuous changes, and on the other hand to advocate the overall strategy of the development of the Republic of Croatia. Another thing I would like to stress about this debate is, if we use one metaphor, where this ship we call Croatia sails, so it seems to me that this ship is spinning in a circle, we're not going forward and we're just adding negative effects, and I'm afraid the problem is in the management of the ship, that we have not only one captain but we have a strong opposition which is good, especially in a democratic society, and on the other hand that we have an invisible captain whose opinion we have to take care of because he allegedly represents unquestionable authority. No matter who is at the head of that ship called Croatia we are all prisoners on that ship and our fate is the same, whether we are left or right in thinking. When they asked the great philosopher Berjayev in 1922 in Paris what had happened in the Soviet Union after the October Revolution, he answered nothing new, they brought us back to the Middle Ages. Somewhere similar I can think, although I allow different thoughts, that we have returned to a Middle Ages with our ship called Croatia, and then he said everything is the same, only people in power have changed, but the truth remains the authority, which is the millennium truth in which everyone is more or less raised, and that is the truth of authority, certain authority, and these truths have already occurred at a magical time when the magicians represented themselves as messengers of deities and established a monopoly over the entire tribe and on its fate. Four important signs of the truth of authority. It's monism, it's an ideology, it's a monologue, it's a culture of monologues. It's a monopoly and it's a monolith. No matter where these four definitions were applied, it was all built on the paradigm of the truth of certain authorities. It's hard to fight this truth because it has millennium meaning and it's deeply involved in the minds of the people and we're victims of this paradigm. One writer who lives in Split wrote a book that the eighth sin is among the seven main sins she sums up the eighth, which is a sin of obedience. In the name of obedience, the greatest crimes in mankind's history took place. People listened, Hitler had to listen, Stalin listened, Mao Ce Tung listened, Tito listened. These were unquestionable authority, and regardless of the ideological omen of individual authority, it was true, so-called. certain authorities that people held to save their heads or save their jobs. The other truth is the coast we sail towards if we agree to sail towards democracy, according to the rule of law, according to the just state, towards the freedom of the individual. It's the authority of truth. While this truth of authority is lurkingly held to survive and to be present in our lives until young generations are overcome by this other truth in education and education, which is true, the authority of truth. Which says science, which says art, which says culture, and then we choose what suits us. This is where we are at a crossroads that young people go their separate ways regardless of the authority of the truth and their future. These changes that arise in these two approaches to the truth of the authority and authority of the truth we are at a crossroads and in the temptations of these two paradigms. Who will prevail could not be a prophet, but I know that the world remains in the young. When it comes to specific cases with us, then, as far as the board is concerned, the school boards here have different opinions. I would still be to introduce some changes and not only be the school board to decide on the director, but to be the whole class community, all employees should participate and anonymously suggest who will be head of school. And clearly, it is necessary to ensure the existence of those who were and did not cover by any testimony that they would be found in one deleted space. You shouldn't leave them in that deleted space, but you should take care of them, too, but you should find a way. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96012	Thank you. Dubravko Bilic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96013	Thank you. Dear Vice President, here's an esteemed colleague I know that you spoke of both this case and one theological position, but I have to see whether or not I agree with you when you said that we are all prisoners of this ship, which is called Croatia and which is sailing towards the Middle Ages. I wouldn't say we're prisoners, we're passengers on that ship, and it's certain that that ship will sail in the direction that we're all heading, and one of the important things to say is the initiative in sails or the wind in sails is certainly the education and change strategy that is here and this law, which is passed by this law. And I'm sure in fact that this ship will sail in the right direction and with extra power because education is the most important thing for us all in any case. And I'd just like to say a little bit more about the director's election. Therefore, all teachers still choose the principal and representatives of the staff and representatives of the teachers at their colleges, i.e. within the collectives, to receive instructions for voting on the School Board and they adhere to it, so that the collective participates in the selection of school principals in any case.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96014	Ivan Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96015	I thank you for this addition to my presentation. I'd just say that we're in one conditionally spoken gable where we want to save both paradigms and the truth of authority because we have to listen to the authority of truth because you're a man of book, knowledge, information, but we want to do it somehow so that we don't mind that so-called. An invisible authority to be consulted. These times are being pasted in my opinion and we are going towards the future and the world remains in the young. These two paradigms, in particular, cannot be included in each other's education systems because they are exclusive to each other, they rest on very different foundations and evaluations, and once and for all, they must stop because we are raising young people in the spirit of the rotten compromise, we can both be with each other. That's not going to work with good results, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96016	On behalf of HNS representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96017	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, dear ministers. The amendments and additions to this law that are before us mostly go towards correcting what has been shown to be problematic in practice and that is something that we, as a matter of principle, always support and thus we will support this time. The more we feel there are no particularly controversial moments in the implementation of this proposal. One of the things that we particularly support is a change which, in order to establish schools that are not financed from the budget, does not need the Ministry's opinion anymore, nor should they be foreseen by a network of school institutions. It's, uh, it seems to us in HNS, in accordance with the direction we normally want to go and we should go. On the one hand, greater diversification in the education system and ultimately the free market in both this and this activity. In other words, if some set of citizens and citizens decide to invest their money, so it is about institutions that are not financed in any way from the budget, if some set of us decides to invest our money in an educational institution and some other people decide to pay money for their children to go to that school, then we actually get realistically viewed in terms of assessing the justification of that before we even start working we have no way to interfere with it. The next item we support is the establishment of elements and criteria for enrolment in high school for a longer period. So, not as it has been every year, and every year it has brought additional and unnecessary unrest into the entire education system. As regards this law, it also makes it clear how the structures of classrooms and the number of students per programme are adopted. The next thing to be specified by this proposal is the change of school, i.e. the situation of school change or programs during high school. This also seems important to us, on the one hand, because of the same application of the rules, but also because of the manipulations that the changes took place especially in the situations of students who entered a school they didn't really want, or they didn't enroll in the school they wanted, and then immediately during the first grade they went to school or program change. So it's something to avoid anyway. When we talk about manipulations, the next thing we know is how many times a student can enroll the same class. And by doing so, we hope to avoid that maneuver that instead of falling class at the last minute, the student is written out of school and then the fall that is actually a fall is actually a fall but it doesn't formally count as a fall in this case seems to us that the new bill better and more precisely regulates it. The next problem this law deals with is when it comes to school change, and it primarily concerns children in primary school, the child can no longer learn in the new school language that has previously been taught as the first language, of course the foreign language. This proposal provides for the introduction of a knowledge check and then the obligation of the school to enable the child to attend another school if he cannot participate in language learning at his school. To be honest, we're not sure it's the best solution. We are aware that this is a relatively small number of cases, but perhaps because it is a small number of cases that we should be able to come up with and a better solution in which school might be, I repeat, it is about primary school children, so it is relatively young, not relatively young people, relatively young children, and perhaps this complication that in this situation I repeat, it will be relatively rare but that a child has to learn a language in a different school, perhaps it would be a more skilled and elegant solution so that this school, in which some kind of additional teaching is possible, has accelerated teaching of special work, then the child reaches the level of knowledge needed to engage with his other colleagues and colleagues in learning the first language that this new school provides. As far as the school network is concerned, the legislation prescribed by this section has been inconsistencies and not sufficiently clear and this is also something that is addressed by this proposal, and we think it is worth supporting. It is clearly prescribed what the network of schools contains, the circle of the institutions involved is expanded, it is important to stress, so these are some institutions that have not been included in the sphere of some other ministries except the Ministry of Education so far. Planning, network changes and everything that's been missing so far and we think it's a good idea to introduce it. As for the pedagogical measures that are an important part of the whole picture and situation in the education of fellow fellow Spoljar spoke a lot about it, I will not repeat. What we would like to stress is that on the one hand we support the adoption of rules with clear criteria but we should not go to full... It seems to us that schools, given their situation, which they can best assess themselves, should be given some level, so the minimum criteria should certainly be clearly and precisely prescribed, but schools should be given in this regard and, when it comes to pedagogical measures, a level of freedom for them to set out those fine details themselves, so to speak. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, not to be completely even and even. On the other hand, in this Regulation and in the manner in which it is to be adopted and implemented, it should be careful that the criteria for the adoption of measures are nevertheless firm. That the whole story with pedagogical measures is completely undivided because frankly speaking at the risk of sounding a little hard, if someone is harassing my child at school or if my children and others in the class can't follow classes because of one or two troubled students, then it's actually relative to me as a parent whether it's a rich family child, from a poor family, from a respected family, from an unreputable family. What I am asking as a parent from school is that my child and his colleagues and colleagues who want to follow the course in peace and security in the area of school and allow it. What is good is that the most difficult measures are no longer deleted at the end of the year as they are now deleted, but remain in force until the end of that part of education, so until the end of primary school or until the end of high school. It will be interesting to see how we will solve the problem of school exclusion at a time when high school becomes mandatory, but it is a problem that we do not have to deal with today, but it is something that will certainly also be one of the problems we will likely face in the future, at the time when we all decide together that high school is also mandatory in the Republic. However, it is also important from educational measures or, together with educational measures, and probably more important is this educational support and professional treatment of students with behavioral problems because we know in our own right that punishing schools and from all other situations in life are not enough and it is always necessary to see what causes the problem and how these problems in their cause try especially when it comes to children of school, whether primary school, or high school age, people whose problems may still be located and solved at the outset. As far as the evaluation is concerned, we at the HNS Club are not opposed to the elimination of midterm evaluations. Personally, I know it's not good to judge the world around you and institutional processes based on our own experience, but I personally think that with grades in general you should be very careful, that we in general in our education system children may start to evaluate too soon. The grade is still some kind of repression. Whatever we think about it and the question is whether someone who is six, seven years old actually, is whether that kind of evaluation is the right thing to do. I remember, I can't forget it at all when I went to school, and so it's half of it, about the second half of the 1980s in elementary school, we had those books, descriptive evaluations, and then the teacher, or teacher, or at that time was still called a friend or a friend, he wrote that we were nice, that we were well-behaved, that we were doing our homework, etc. And that booklet at that age seemed more stimulating to me and to the students on one side because it was actually clearer than a dry, cold and distanced grade actually wrote in it what was good, what was not good. And her parents were somehow more focused on what was needed, what had to be done, and what was good and what had to be kept at that level. But to get back on the subject. Statistics show us that after we abolished the evaluation at the midterm the student's success is on a slight increase, it's something that should not be ignored in the midterm evaluation debate and we also have a decline in the number of unwarranted hours which is, I will return again for a second to personal experience not hearing me either because as far as I remember from school very little is actually marked from obsess. The average student marks when he doesn't learn, when he doesn't write his homework, when he's scared of being tested, and then there's much less damage to the unwarranted clock than the unit that among those two, three grades that ultimately affect the final score can be a big, big problem. So these statistics should not be ignored when talking about grading or misjudged students in the midterm. What remains is the obligation for schools to report success at the end of the semester with the fact that I am asking both the Minister and the esteemed assistant to have that in their eyes now because this proposal leaves the way of reporting to schools that is fine, we agree, but we need to keep an eye on that it would not happen to us or that schools do not meet the basic goal, which is that students and parents find out and understand, these are two separate and equally important things that are what the situation is and how this situation can be improved, changed or maintained by the end of the year. It is also good that the conclusion of the evaluations is given, the evaluations of the rule give the class council jurisdiction as well as the right to appeal with the fact that, of course, we must be aware that this will increase the work of teachers and teachers, as these complaints will likely become more and more. Of course we're aware of that, but we can't avoid it. Let us also state the school's obligation to organise an additional course for students with a maximum of two units at the end of the year, of course with an obligation that is also prescribed by those students to participate in the additional course. Indeed there were a lot of problems with these repairs, they were very often, either mostly or almost always organized immediately after the end of the school year and then the student had no time to learn in the right way, correct that grade. Then it was panic, hysteria, instruction, everything, pressure on teachers, teachers, directors, etc. This seems like a better way to solve the problem. It is good to introduce assistants in the teaching, i.e. professional communications intermediaries. We support the way in which employment phasing is prescribed and that I do not now list, mainly this bill is supported by the HNS club. I didn't mean to talk about the principals, and I'm not going to talk about it in this debate. It seems to me that those who are good are good independent of the license, and those who are bad for them and the license won't help much. Unfortunately, at the head of our schools, all of these problems that are mentioned here as problems of education, so the status of teachers and the material status of schools and teachers and pressures and political pressures and all of what are really problems that we all mention together as problems of our schools, are in some way cutting into that position of directors and therefore this proposal changes and supplements, its scope is too tight to rightly solve the problems we have the last 20, and probably actually more realistically, and much more than the last 20 years when we talk about the directors of our schools. And lastly, I would just like to say that the HNS Club proposes an amendment in Article 30(3), we suggest that it writes the following – the secretary's work can be done by a person who has completed a university degree study of legal profession or a specialist professional study of public administration, i.e. a professional study of administrative profession. This amendment is submitted for the reason that this proposal, which we are discussing, is discriminated against by persons with completed specialist professional studies of the public administration in relation to persons with a completed professional degree in legal profession, although both categories of these people, namely those candidates, meet the formal competences necessary to carry out the duties of secretaries of school institutions. We sincerely hope that this amendment of ours will be accepted. In any case, this law is acceptable to us. I hope, with this change that we are proposing, and with those few notes, that, as always, when it comes to laws, especially often with the laws in the field of education, we must pay particular attention to the way in which the changes we are making are going to take place and whether or not to obtain the effect that we want to achieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96018	Thank you. Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96019	Thank you very much. The rating can be repressive, but it can also be stimulating, we know that, depending on the teacher who evaluates, whether it draws from the student or student what is best that it can get away with and reward it with a grade or seek what it does not know and punish it. So it's a thing that can be said one way or another. But I came to you with a replica actually because of an example that you cited and welcomed to disable the so-called. manipulation of transition to another direction after first grade high school. I'm not sure if it would be called manipulation or necessity given the very bad programs that our education system has, especially high school education, so where even the score threshold for vocational orientations rises above that high school system, and then children who are talented for some craftsmanship can't actually get into it, so they're looking for some way to get into the school they want to go to and finish it. In any case, they need to be allowed to sign up wherever they want, so they won't need manipulation. The problem is actually much deeper in that part that we have today’s programs and schools actually report programmes not according to the needs of the market but according to the teaching staff currently in the Chamber. And there's one big problem. Perhaps we should find a solution to some circulation of the teaching staff so that in the long run, as you yourself have said, what is proposed in the end case, that long-term programs are being solved and that we can then actually be improved by the circulation of the teaching staff, not by having schools that have actually been tampered with in place for a number of years.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96020	Igor Coleman, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96021	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Hrg, I agree with you that the evaluation may be and have a stimulating effect, it is not disputed. It just seems to me that the assessment by its definition, the way it works, the way it's being brought is still in its being a repressive mechanism and what I was saying, of course we should have a grade at school, and what I was talking about is that it seems to me, that's something I'm not talking about for the first time in the Croatian Parliament and it's not directly or directly related to these changes and supplements, I admit it, but I took advantage of the opportunity, it seems to me that this evaluation of very small children in the first grade, second grade, those numerical grades, is the fact that you have a situation that children in the first class get units, that they have units at the end of the year. It seems excessive to me, and the model in which I went to this same country, although in another country, but in the same country, in the same city where we are, it seemed more appropriate to me for six, seven-year-olds, and that's something I don't miss an opportunity to say in the House, although I agree, directly related to these changes and additions. As regards this change of school in the first grade, so what is prescribed by this proposal to allow a student in the first grade of high school to enroll if there are equal or greater points required for enrolment of the last student enrolled in that new school in the regular procedure. So that way, actually, and of course, there's an exception then if the school hasn't typed in enough numbers at all, then it can have a smaller number. So that's what we're actually doing, it seems to us, and it seems to me to be avoiding this maneuver where you didn't actually get into the school that you wanted to go to, and then you actually did it through a change of school. This actually seems to us to be a better way of prescribing this situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96022	Domagoj Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96023	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Coleman, two things actually moved me to the line. I'd just get a little bit attached to what you were saying about the evaluation. If grading is the student's ultimate motive, then that's not good. That means we have some deeper problems, but not in the system as a system of education, but I would dare say in the system of values of society. It is unfortunately something that we, as a legislator, cannot prescribe. Like, it may already be a philosophical debate that you also touched, that the assessment of the right assessment of knowledge, so the teacher, the teacher, the teacher, has one hard job in 5 of some standardized grades to draw up student knowledge. Then the question is whether it's just knowledge, whether it's a pawn, whether it's behavior, etc., etc. Do we need to think about something that exists in the West, and that's more internal grading grades? So you have in the Anglo-Saxon system if it's the best grade A inside of it you have three other classes A1, 2, 3 with A1 really fantastic, A3 is already something that draws towards a lower grade that's B. And when you talk about learning a foreign language we're here again in danger of getting too crazy. I had a case at my professional start of students, then a foreign language learned from the fourth grade that came to the 5th grade so he first studied German, then he should continue to do English. Of course, I'm a teacher to him, but the school has assured him that we have an extra class, as you wish, so that he can master what needs to be mastered in the 5th grade. The problem is when and students migrate from school to school unless the language that student was learning is offered at all. So, for example, if it comes from the coastal Croatia to continental, say, in the coastal region, you have a very strong tradition of learning Italian while in continental and many schools you have no... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96024	The answer to Igor Coleman's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96025	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Hajdukovic actually agrees with everything you said, but he would just like to clarify this about a foreign language. I find this extra class model more appropriate. Unfortunately, I don't have any statistics on which number of students we're talking about at all, but just because I also suspect that it's a very small number, it doesn't seem to be an excessive burden on the system that within the new school, I stress again it's about children in primary schools, so it's relatively small children, that he doesn't have to go back to some other school to organize it. We know for ourselves what it will look like in practice, but it seems to me a better model for the school to allow you to teach the child extra from that language he provides in his school so that the child can then participate evenly after some time with his new colleagues and colleagues in that class at that new school, not that again because of one language must go somewhere else. So we don't have the amendment either, but that's why I put it in the debate as a suggestion, perhaps even for further thinking and thinking, along with some information that the number of children is at all concerned and how it would then affect the system financially and humanely. But it seems to us that a better solution is that at a school where a child is enrolled, he is given the opportunity to master the difference than to allow him to go to another school and learn a language. Here's the simplest thing that was mine and our observation about it. And this is all I think I'm signing from beginning to end.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96026	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96027	Thank you very much. You were talking to your colleague Coleman about enabling the so-called So-called Columbian. in that former state was an extension of teaching, so again it is called supplemental work so that students who have a negative grade can correct their grades during that period of additional work, but it is a newspaper on all the laws and practices so far that those who wish to correct their assessment that it is positive that they have the opportunity to have the opportunity in this supplemental work which is very good and that I welcome. So again, even though we went back to the one from the former state, so the extension class, now it's called extra work, and finally that correctional exam that has a chance up to the 25th school students to fix their grades, that's okay. In this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements, there is not one provision in which students of vocational schools, I would also ask the Minister to listen a little bit, so they can therefore, given that very often they cannot find employment so that they can pass the difference of exams and enroll the university. There's not a word about it in this law, even though I've asked a question in writing because I've met students who've just had such a problem getting into college. They're talented for something else. And the third thing I was going to say, you said you weren't going to talk about the principals, but you said something, so I'd say the director's choice was politicized. You in the local self-government have local political powers that delegate people from local self-government to the school board, and when a county in which the ruling furniture that has perhaps only 51% of the council members in the county assembly delegates exclusively from the governing structure, opposition as if it does not exist. No one on the school board chooses an opposition like there's no opposition in the county at all. And how do you say the director's choice isn't politicized? Now he's politicized.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96028	The answer to Igor Coleman's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96029	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Grubisic, as far as students of vocational schools are concerned, I fully agree with you. It seems important to me that when young people make a decision at 12, 14, 16 years of age about their education that they have a chance to change that decision somewhere in that system and in that sense I agree completely with you and these communication channels that I should so express myself should be kept open and it is really important that students of vocational schools also have the opportunity to change their minds and to go to college, etc. After all, the propos of vocational schools we are here recently, there is unfortunately no one from that delegation now was one delegation of the Croatian Parliament in Baden-Württemberg where one of the most successful and possibly most successful state of the Federal Germany they are convinced there is the secret of their economic and then in the other derivation and social success is that their system of dual education, which is extremely well placed in this professional part of the highly connected economy and which, on the other hand, allows for the passing though of which you are talking about. So if I made up my mind when I was 14 for something, I didn't put it in stone now, and I don't have a chance of ever doing anything else in my life. As for the politicization of the election of directors, that unfortunately I went to high school one respected Zagreb high school in which in '95 one prominent, one of the most respected Croatian directors by political decision and political line was removed, thank God it was probably useful in overall education because he later founded a fantastic private school and for us students of that school it was trauma and shock and such shocks and traumas experienced people throughout Croatia over the last 20 years. The problem then is that we have a negative selection because it happens very often to you that those most decent and most competent teachers, they won't even accept it, I won't be the director, that's what.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96030	We're moving on to an individual debate. A colleague of Domagoj Hajduković.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96031	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, with assistant, colleagues and colleagues. So I think 10 minutes is too little to say everything I want to say about this law, so I've limited my debate to several parts of these changes and additions that I thought were particularly important, that they specifically change the course itself and the concept of teaching, or what is related to our education system, and I believe that my debate will make it clear to you why I chose it. So the reasons for the adoption of this law, as the minister himself has already introduced some colleagues and colleagues who have been discussing on behalf of the club, are to coordinate, improve, etc., therefore, the existing law. Of course, many failures and shortcomings are always referred to by practice. I remember in this term we had already changed and supplemented this Law also with the recommendations and observations made in practice, which were not sufficiently defined or inexecutible. So I see this first and foremost as one of those. So like I said, it's hard to fit everything I want to say in 10 minutes, so I'd start with the prominent parts that I think are important, first of all it's a network of schools. In fact, so far, in the practice of getting a network of schools, we have had a lot of gaps and shortcomings. There are now clearer regulations on what networks include, which are the preconditions for institution establishment, the process of planning a network of schools, the adoption and modification of the network of schools. Because I have to point out that so far the law didn't know the institute to change the networks of schools. The elements of the network were also, therefore, clearly defined now, unclear and this resulted in the fact that the founders were often guided by different criteria, i.e. some criteria that certain founders would respect, whether the county, or cities in some cases were not respected, in others etc., etc. And that led us to a bad situation where we have schools listed in school networks that are not yet brain-based, which have few students, which are neither rational, so as we speak of a network of schools nor effective. So it is clear what will have to be found in a network of schools and allow me to quote: "Therefore, a list of all schools and institutions in which a regular programme of education is performed, is a special programme for students with disabilities etc., a list of institutions spatially adapted to persons with disabilities, a list of school institutions appointed to gyms, a list of school institutions appointed to centres of excellence and a list of dormitories. ". There will also have to be institutions that are outside the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports system, i.e. to the Resort Ministry of Education, which are primarily the institutions within the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth where there is also been an education. Also, institutions whose founders are not states, i.e. local and regional self-government units, but legal and natural persons. So in other words, private school and so on. Why do all this? Because of a clearer picture of education and education in each area and the optimization of the network itself. So far, these schools have not entered the network, they do not have to be listed. Some were, therefore, in order to even establish a private school had to be planned in the network etc., etc., that caused a lot of illogicality, a lot of conflicts with European regulations, which I will say a few words about later when I look back at private schools. What is also particularly important is that networks must be planned in institutions that are therefore financed from the budget of the Republic of Croatia, only those in the budget, in private, so that they must be planned in the network. It is possible to change the network as I have mentioned before, so far it has not been foreseen in accordance with, so the elements can make changes, which is population, number of children, geographical location, labour market needs etc.. So we have some elements in which we can measure labour market needs, it is primarily the Croatian Employment Institute and the annual publication that has been issued these are recommendations for registration policies. In their discussions, some colleagues tried to relativize and say in the current situation with many unemployed whether such things are really necessary but what is the alternative then? That we don't sign anyone up because there's no job? And people have to be educated, they have to gain knowledge, they have to prepare for a performance on the labour market. The very technique for the adoption of a network of schools remains the same, so the founder proposes to the ministry, the ministry proposes to the government and the Government of the Republic of Croatia brings with the opinion of the National Council for Human Resources Development, which I also believe is an important paper since there are also renowned experts who have something to say about it, I think their opinion should be evaluated. Another thing is the duration of educational work that I would especially underline. We have so far been prescribed that the school year lasts 35 weeks or 160 teaching days or 32 teaching weeks. Unfortunately, because of the catastrophic floods and because of the inability to teach in certain schools, practice has shown us that it is important for the minister to decide with his decision in the event of natural disasters and disasters to decide whether to continue or to extend or to organise differently. The additional work is also being introduced, so it's a newspaper on the one hand on the other side, it's not, it's something that already existed. But I think it's extremely important because it was simply unreal to expect students to prepare for the first deadline under the old law. So let me explain more clearly what I mean. If the student has a negative grade in a particular class and so he hasn't mastered the material all year long, I think it's irrational to expect that from the moment he finishes teaching, let's say that it's mid-June until the beginning of July he masteres a single subject completely. However, he is given a chance to work intensively with the teacher in question for a long time to do so. If it does not always exist, then after the summer, at the end of August until it has more time and can achieve certain results, it can master certain material. Bringing curricula, ethical code and home order, I think that's what my colleague Spoljar has already mentioned, the beginning of the school year as well as the end of the school year is always a critical period in every school's life, in the work of every educational worker. There are a lot of jobs to be done at the beginning of the school year, so classes have a lot of work to do, the teachers in question, the planning of their course, etc., etc., now not to describe what all this includes. That's what colleagues and colleagues who worked in the system know very well. And I think it's realistic to help the deadlines for bringing and curricula and home order and so on until September 30th, but it still gives more time to teachers and students and parent councils that are formed only at the beginning of the year, so during September, that they also give opinions and suggestions on these important documents since schools are handled in their work during the school year. As regards private schools, the provisions which adopt these amendments and the amendments to the laws are in fact a harmonisation with the practice of the European Union, i.e. Directive 2006/123/EC, which speaks of the flow of services and labour markets. So private schools don't have to be projected by the network, especially because they're not financed from the state budget. And what is the practice of the European Union is that private education service providers are free to assess the justification and rationality of the establishment of an institution, since it is not financed by the state, that their risk is whether it will attract sufficient students or students and so on that school can function. And in conclusion, as I said at the outset, I see this law first and foremost as harmonising the improvement of the already existing one. We have a few newspapers that we can also trust to agree that they are good and as far as the teaching process itself is concerned, and as far as students are concerned, possible relief, mastering materials. First of all, I am thinking about this supplemental work, and therefore this law, that is, these amendments and the additions of the law, have my support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96032	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96033	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. You were talking about a network of schools. I believe that the minister also hurts his head, and the founders of schools so in local or regional self-government in doubt whether he will stay in the district school network or go on a ride to central school. So I'm talking about the financial effects of it, but I'm also talking about thinking, which means one district school for some village. They say a village without a doctor, a priest and a teacher didn't village. So in Slavonia, we really have the white plague in action again. You have schools, you know, alone, with 2, 3, 4, 5 students, district schools. By eliminating such schools and taking an alternative for them to drive to central school, we get a village without school. And now it's really in doubt I believe both the ministry and the county as founder of schools, what to do in that case. It is necessary to subdue the bill and calculate exactly how much it would actually cost, and yet one subjective effect therefore the village with school or without school is also important in general in the population. Secondly, you've said something about these high school students, and I have to make a correction in article 6 of this new law, which applies to article 24 of the old law, exactly what extra exams are scheduled when you want to go from vocational school to... to enroll in college. So that's where I was last time in the replica I was wrong, but now I'm taking advantage of this when you were talking about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96034	Domagoj Hajdukovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96035	Thank you very much, dear colleague Grubisic. I think we agree here in principle. Namely, I'm also indistinguishable if there are minimum conditions for any school, so if we're talking about regional, small schools, I've worked in some of them, canceling. I think it's much more effective for young children, so here we talk about children who are in class class class from 1st to 4th grade, they usually attend primary school, so let them get relatively close to home that, given their age, they can attend the first four classes. Later they must unfortunately go to a higher school because the costs multiply if they move to the classroom, etc., but wherever it can be kept I am for. Unfortunately you have schools where the conditions are really bad, let's say in Lipovaca a small suburban village of Vukovar you have a school that is very old, actually an adapted house that serves as a school. So is it the smartest thing for those kids to do class at a school like that, so there's a lot of thought and a lot to take care of? And I agree that local self-government units right now, since I can see more easily this whole problem I'm talking about, should be initiators and changes and the adoption of a school network. It is easiest for one county or one city to assess what its real needs are, but of course it is guided by some real criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96036	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96037	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague, one of the great truths you said, but I think you'll agree with my supplement when you said that really learning should be adapted to the labour market. However, here is a story when Abraham Lincoln, the late son of Abraham Lincoln, went to the first grade of elementary school, then he wrote a letter to his teacher, and among other things he wrote: Please teach him to sell his knowledge, but never his heart and his soul. This is what we must never give up on humanistic sciences, which unfortunately do not have some great transition on the labour market, but which today are more necessary perhaps than ever. Because education, apart from the adoption of materials and the adjustment of the market, should primarily serve and develop a whole personality, an individual, an independent spirit that is able to choose its own way of life and thus be empathic and solid to others.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96038	Replication response, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96039	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Anticevic, I absolutely agree with you. I'd just like to add what was already going on as a leit motive through the debate, and that's what our student's learning motives are. The motives must be this particular example that you have stated that one day the staff of a man who will succeed in the labour market, but that the staff of a better man, that this knowledge enriches him and that his main motive for a student or a student is to acquire knowledge and enrich himself as a person. The score is ultimately just the crown of that process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96040	We still have eight minutes, but a session of the Bureau was called at 13:30. ... A colleague if you fit in in eight minutes. ... [[You can't hear it.]] What? [[You can't hear it.]] Then we'll continue at 15.00 hours. You'll be first in line. It's 13,19 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96041	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] For an individual debate of 10 minutes, the respected Josip Boric applied. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96042	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. So here's this proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Education and Education in Elementary and High School is ideal for us to make one cut that's been going on for the past three years, where we are today, which is what the law offers to see where we're going to be tomorrow. It is my basic impression that the Croatian primary and secondary school system has not progressed in the past three years. I think too much time has been lost without major visible shifts in all segments. Looking at the whole system at the level of legislative activities, means from the activities of the Croatian Parliament, from the ministry, regional and local self-government, school infrastructure, professors, teachers, assistant staff at school, I don't think we've made any better moves. So I'm going to go ahead with the necessary school infrastructure. Schools, sports halls, arranged and customized cabinets I think that segment has kind of stalled, that it's in some way even completely abandoned. Because in the time from 2000 to 2011, it felt like it was investing in this system, that it was one let's say both a consensus and a state project where it sought to restore and build completely new schools, edit regional and primary schools, build halls, and that this should result in our children not going into two shifts, means that we respect a certain pedagogical standard. And indeed, hundreds of schools and halls were built in many areas. But for the past three years, I've felt like everything's stopped. The former minister said he would offer a new model of public-private partnership, that it would solve school infrastructure problems. The opportunity of course was also in the EU funds, but if I were to ask today, here I would also like to know the fact that the current school is being built on various programmes, I don't know any Ministry of Regional Development or the Ministry of Education or some other ministries are difficult to get an answer. Here's what I'd like if we had such information that we knew what was going on in that system of building new schools, or rebuilding existing or regional schools, or sports halls. Because the minister, the former minister announced the construction of 338 schools according to the public private partnership model, even claimed that there were 55% of the funds in the state budget. But we can see that this obviously didn't work out because there were 6 billion kunas going on, we really don't see that this is the construction process, or that the construction of these schools is really happening, maybe I'm wrong, but I really don't see it just seeing the problems. For example, in the City of Split, we all witnessed that protest of parents who for some time, for ten years, could not build an ordinary elementary school on Pazigrad. It's really not normal for a city with so much budget, state, county can't build a primary school for students. That says we're in trouble. And daily we were bombarded by headlines dropped a ceiling in Osijek at school, dropped a ceiling at a school in Korčula, dropped a ceiling at school I don't know Split. So the infrastructure system obviously didn't come back to life the way it was announced. Let's go to second segment, take the students to school. There's been a shift. He needs to be admitted. There are certain funds to help high school students travel cheaper, to facilitate their right to high school and I can now say that I am happy in this segment that on the islands this programme was about ten years old, costing about thirty million kuna a year where primary school children, high school kids all driving free of charge to the first center on land, that maritime transport can reach the county center and that is why many children and enroll in high school, high school in county centres, but also a week, they may also return to the middles in which they live. It is something to be commended for, and it should continue to be insisted that we do not end it in some kind of austerity measure. There's more to the problem of bus quality, and I think there's a job for some other ministry to keep an eye on them so it wouldn't happen to us like there really is an accident, and there's an accident where children get hurt because some buses aren't adapted to what they're serving. It was also the project "Easier School Bag", unfortunately it was reduced to thin and cheaper paper, not to a reduction in the curricula, to a system in which the knowledge needed to live within the new time and system that surrounds us is a system where we are daily bombarded with a virtual world, the Internet where children simply learn from school later in the afternoons or mornings simply lose themselves in encounter with that virtual world. Unfortunately, it's hard, but we have to admit that today we have to teach kids how to learn, how to really learn. Because this virtual world rush is too tough, big, strong, and hard to even separate them from when we know that almost all, the vast majority of children are available to the Internet and that they spend a great deal of time daily in that world. Of the 500 million kunas that cost the project of a former minister paid by parents or local self-government, I don't think it's much use. I've got a kid in eighth grade, and his bag isn't any easier than last year. The minister here talked about 300 or 400 decagrams, I think it's too weak a result for 500 million kunas and it's not systematically happened, but in one way that was obviously supposed to be more or less accompanied by some kind of PR service, some kind of spin, to convince the kids that they're carrying easier bags, but that's not true. There's no movement, and the money's spent. At school we have principals, professors, teachers, assistant staff. The fact is that wages have been reduced, the additions have been abolished, that these people working in the education system have less than they had in 2011, but that for this smaller money they still have to do their job with honor and they do it for me. I must point out that the budget of the ministry is also higher in 2013 and 2014 for a billion kuna than in 2011, but with more money, obviously to achieve an equal level or even lower. It was through a program of outsourcing or a project of trying to separate those logistics that works at school that it wasn't good for us, even the workers themselves reacted, the signatures were collected, and it's a good thing it didn't happen. To enable further normal work, daily work of each school. The former minister has often arbitration over the election of directors. The way I was appointed was, in some cases, a pure policy. Just remember Mrs. Maria Budimir from Vukovar where in a similar contest we confirm the appointment or consent, for political reasons we do not confirm consent. I think this law further explains the conditions and steps for the better, and that's why I support it. Entries in high school have been made by the progress that has been continued and I think this law in that segment gives an even better situation and I certainly support it. However, the problem of enrolment in high school is often social, lack of property. And many children give up especially in families who have no money, who live very hard, give up high school because unfortunately it represents one expense that they cannot keep still. I think it's on every government, including this one, and every next one, that this particular segment, the second segment that I think is the reason why you don't enroll children in high school that everyone is working to end that obstacle. We have often witnessed that in the past three years, the Constitutional Court has abolished decisions made by the former minister, in terms of health care, changing school textbooks, some regulations, decisions on the elements and criteria for selecting candidates for enrolment in the first grade of high school, etc. The Constitutional Court has always reacted because they were obviously not prepared enough and were not implemented in the way they should have been. As for the evaluation of success, I think it was another Minister's mistake. Many today are calling for a midterm re-evaluation, and I'm personal about it. I believe that every child has the right to have a grade for his success, to know what he's done, how much it's worth, and to be his motive in the second half to do it right. So far, they're in the first term, maybe I'm looking at it wrong, but I feel like they don't give a lot of work in the first term, and there are some people who do it, but I think that in one part of it, they're getting loose and they're not giving up until the end of the school year. As far as income tax is concerned, it is a failure by me for decades which will reverse many activities in schools, especially in the divisions of extracurricular activities and it will only be known in the following year and has further affected all local self-government, and most of it will hit schooling. I think this law should be supported because in these procedures it's taken a step forward, and what effects will be on the overall system we'll see in next year, and I don't think it's going to be too much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96043	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First, a respected colleague, Domagoj Hajdukovic, signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96044	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, my colleague, Boric, here, I listened very carefully to you, and I was waiting for your debate because you're a co-worker, except that we're colleagues, but unfortunately in the legislative proposal, I didn't hear anything except these last sentences that you said we'd see what effect it would have. Okay, it's your right in any case, but some things in your debate where you're more... the state of our school than the law itself have encouraged me to replicate. First of all, I think it is important to point out that this government and the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports care as much as they can for the people who work in this system. So I have to point out that the only ones who've been paid, the only ones in this financial crisis are teachers and teachers in primary and secondary schools, and that's 3.5% of all, 6% mentors, 10% advisors. You mentioned building new schools. This policy of building new schools has cost us very much in the perspective. I'll give you an example. You have a small municipality near Ilock, the municipality... In one of the places... a whole new school according to all the latest standards, the modern ones, can't swear exactly what year, I believe in 2008, in 2009. But without further ado, it was necessary to renew the amount of money needed to be spent on a school that lacks a hundred students and does not have a prospect of attracting more students, or unfortunately there are no children in the area. This law differently prescribes network planning schools and that's what we need, a more efficient and rational network of schools which I'm afraid has not been the case so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96045	The line corresponds to the esteemed Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96046	Thank you very much. My colleague Hajdukovic, I don't agree that I didn't talk about the law because I'm going to mention what I said about transportation to school, I guess you've read it, it says something about transportation to school, how this is now resolved through this law, about the selection of directors, I guess I mentioned that, about enrolment in high school. So we didn't understand each other, I gave one cross-section of the system back three years, and I didn't realize from your replica that he was better than he was. I'm sure we can all determine that. Here, I asked the deputy to tell us really how many of these schools are being worked because I'm the minister formerly announced 338 schools, an investment cycle of 6 billion kuna. Well, it'd probably be visible somewhere. Now if anyone missed building a school in some place. I believe that every child should have adequate working conditions both in the smallest place and in the largest city. Why would it be a privilege only of large urban environments? This is exactly the way to address these problems happened through the entire policy of this government. So look at the way the government behaves towards rural areas, look at the transport strategy that goes towards rural areas. Well, we're not gonna cut school because they can't attract them to a small place instead of 100, 400 students. Or it's an unwarranted investment. Well, I guess there's no such thing as infrastructure when it's being built, every investment has to be justified and the money that's going to be used further. If building a school is making money, then we're talking about wrong instructions, at least that's how I look at it. Well, one thing is, you kept talking for three years about possibilities, we give opportunities. So let's give opportunities in the rural area that these children have appropriate conditions, that they have cabinets suitable, that they have information cabinets, that they have the possibility, that they have e-school or whatever else you're offering through some kind of strategy, but I'm asking now how many of these schools are doing? Here, in 2014 let them build for two and three years, but I have also cited that a great city with a budget of several hundred million kunas cannot build one school itself, and parents have been protesting for ten years. And they have a student, but they have to travel to other parts of town to sort of take care of that system. That's a big difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96047	Second replica, dear Dubravko Bilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96048	Thank you, Vice President. So I'd like to agree with my colleague, Boric, in this last part of your life with you that no investment in school is actually a failed investment, I would just remind you also that this investment in school depends on the politics of the founders of the county and the cities. Varazdin County, I don't know if anyone's heard that in Varazdin County a ceiling fell on students, does it not work heating, is there any problems in functioning? No, because Varazdin County has been investing huge amounts of money in school infrastructure for ten years. In Varazdin County, only two schools do not work in one shift or three, and they will very soon go to one-way school because it was a policy of reasonable and deliberate investment in education. Although we don't have any football leaguers in Varazdin County, we don't even have one in Međimurje County, so maybe it's one of the reasons the founders invest in school and maybe not some other content. You've also apostrophe of the student transport. I am pleased that on the islands the transport of students is free, in the Varazdin County, in the continent he is not free, some parents should not have this help from the ministry and the government in co-financing of transport to allocate for monthly tickets up to 1800 kuna, that automatically means that the child would be asked to continue his education. However, the Varazdin County, but also with the help of the ministry, ensures co-financing of this transport, and due to this co-financing, has increased the number of students who continue schooling after primary school, and these are all good and appropriate results.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96049	The replica corresponds to Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96050	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Bilic, here's your confirmation of everything I said or you didn't listen to me again. I was talking about transportation and I said it was a good measure and I support it. Here, we're getting closer to determining how the question of children traveling up to 3km and 5km to school, right, but I mentioned it because we've been on islands for 10 years now through a special programme and a position in the budget of those children for ten years and I know what's going on on on the islands. We had more inhabitants on the islands than in 2001, and not nearly 8.5 thousand. And that's something that gives hope that this measure can do something, and I commended the measure that you brought, which is co-financing for high school travel, and I said it was also the reason that many kids might have to continue high school because it might have been a difficult factor in their home budgets for which they might have had to give up. As for the fact that there are no schools in Varazdin where the ceiling fell, so you were champions of that public-private partnership, perhaps there is a reason. But now I'm asking again if someone announced an investment cycle of 6 billion and said we have 55% secure, let's see where that 55% of the money is secured from the state budget, it's not seen there. So we've talked before, and if that was behind it, I believe it's not, and that's why I'm waiting for someone to tell us how much this school is doing on that program because 6 billion when you say it's not a little bit, it's a construction operation that can really live on that money. And whether counties and cities will now have funds as founders of primary and secondary schools, given that you took them with income tax, whether it will all be able to function exactly as a public-private partnership as it was imagined, and it was not known at that time that such a law would be passed, whether there will be money or again the Ministry of Education as last year will intervene with 25 million because it was a Varazdin County. We remember all of this, so that's what we're talking about, we're talking about being, and I support this law. I'm not against this if we don't understand each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96051	Time's up. Your time's up. The last replica, the esteemed Damir Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96052	Thank you, Vice President. I'm glad my colleague Boris agrees with this proposal. I'm glad you pointed out school problems. We need to constantly point out school problems and keep pointing to them. I would only be here to rely on a colleague of Hajdukovic and a colleague of Bilić in two things regarding the fact that some schools were built during some period. It's very important there's a network of schools. I hope you'll agree with that and with this bill, that network of schools is important to us because it wouldn't happen that any government is building with its local school sheriffs who are not very justified. I agree that maybe that school for those 100 students needed there, that you should have modern, that you should have all the cabinets that you should have but she may be the capacity of 400 students, it's really unwarranted, then that means that it's not planned properly, there's something wrong. There will now be a network of schools and the problem will be solved. The other thing I'd like to say here is it keeps forgetting that when schools and halls are at stake there's a huge commitment of founders. The other thing is that some founders like Varazdin County are doing their job, and some founders like my County of Osijek-Baranja are not doing their job at all, but are just interested in staffing in schools, selecting directors until the election of cleaners. And finally, all those problems you pointed out are here to solve them together, and we took the first step to the education strategy. For a year and a half, there was a public debate over this strategy, and we all had a chance in it, and as far as the heavy burdens in the student bags are concerned, there will be a new curricula next year, and there is an opportunity for us all to say again and the waist to tell where the problem is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96053	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96054	Thank you very much. So here you said that the development strategy, the education for the next period was adopted, and then we have article 34.Let's say that you postpone by applying to 1.1.2017 means that the system that was designed and which was supposed to live is not currently ready and then we delay the start of such a way as the appointment of the school board director and the work of the school boards for two years, and we're talking about the strategy. So we haven't started yet, we're giving up some of the provisions that have been written in this law, and why does the proposer himself admit that the system isn't ready? As far as schools are concerned, schools have been built and I will never see any problem because I believe that in those areas where there are not many children, there should be appropriate conditions. And no one can convince me that all those schools were pre-named that all those halls were missed and that every one of them was what you call them, and I'm never going to say that to any of the commissioners that they're some kind of local sheriffs who don't have a sense of measure and the size of something. I think that everyone wanted to do what they thought best in their midst and that they could do with the state before helping both counties and cities close financial structures. Today, unfortunately, we do not have such opportunities, although European funds have emerged because we are late in everything. And that's why I'm asking again how many of these schools are currently being built, how many of them we're going to build in the next period, so that the targets can be measured because the news is being spent, and we're not going to find out in the end if we had a better or worse system. And the law which he law in many ways improves the current procedure because certain irregularities have been observed and it is acceptable in this segment. Now, if it's going to be in the entire system, big progress, it's going to show time. And I don't think it's going to be too much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96055	Time. We're continuing the debate for 10 minutes. It is up to the honourable representative Rajko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96056	So, colleagues and colleagues, you've talked a lot today about the law, so just a few points that I'm going to talk about and optimize the network, finally getting a school curricula by September 30, a transport of 3 or 5 km depending on whether you're going first four classes or 5th to 8th, an ethical code and home order, so maybe I should start with that. This was very clearly said by her colleague Špoljar on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, she talked about the behavioral problems that are happening, she spoke very explicitly several examples, and it is good that this will finally be sanctioned under official duty, so not in the right criminal section but that it will be sanctioned under official duty... That's right, because teachers don't carry guns happily, they wear guns like cops, then it'd be a different attack on a cop than a teacher or a doctor or a social worker, which is why it's both different and a formulation. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's good to remember fellow Spoljar who showed the extent of the teacher's, teacher's work, especially now before Christmas or before summer, so I won't be bad enough to compare it to the work of our Assembly MPs. Because although the assembly is empty, many of our colleagues and colleagues are now working on committees, therefore we do not see the work of parliamentary representatives, although of course we are under a special crowd. But so the work of teachers, teachers, university professors is simply invisible because you need to prepare for a lecture, you need to do the preparation, make the latest knowledge, get into it. You know that science itself, at least natural science is increasing so that every five years it's almost restored. In any case, what is bad for Croatia is the demographic perspective and present, the white plague in the last 15 years almost 10 thousand students are less enrolled in the first grade of primary school and therefore this optimization, the rationalisation of the network that counterpart Hajdukovic spoke of in the replica, is something that is an additional novelty of this law or harmonisation with the needs but also the exploitation of maximum human resources. Nietzsche says better grams of experience than tons of strategy. Well, it's this school curricula whether, always until September 15th and only experience says that you can't form until September 15th when teaching begins at the earliest September 4th or September 7th, you have to form school committees, so I think that saying is the thought of artists among philosophers and he was quite an artist among philosophers with a clear gram of experience than tons and tons of material, trucks and trucks is theory and strategy. The Ethics Code and Home Order finally all three factors of the triangle, students, teachers and parents are equally involved in the adoption of the Ethics Code and Home Order and I am convinced that this will in some way improve the code and order. You have all commended the transport, indeed for every commendation but what would ultimately but perhaps not less important to praise that the law prescribed is finally prescribed even though it is done and in practice, although we have seen, in recent months and some problems that, by law, it is prescribed that all school institutions can include in order to meet the special needs of working with students with difficulties. In this regard, the law defines inclusion of the educational and teaching process of teaching assistants in teaching or professional communication mediators as one of the forms of assistance to students with developmental difficulties. Therefore, I really think that this law is significant, that is, the addition of amendments to the law is significant, significant. And once again, it's good to remember the range of jobs that teachers, teachers and teachers do every day and finally get that profession back on track. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96057	We will hear another individual debate from the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96058	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. Here's what I'm going to try to do in the debate to highlight a few of the essential features of this bill. The national pedagogical standard lays down criteria for setting up a network of schools, and precisely with this legislative proposal, Articles 9 and 10 provides for a clearer and more precise process of planning and adopting networks of schools. In particular, two things should be welcomed in the amendment to Article 22. The first possibility of enrolment in high school after being 18, of course, with the approval of the ministry. The second paragraph of paragraph 5 is set out that the structure of classrooms and the number of students per programme for their planning area, the founders in cooperation with, plan the founders in collaboration with secondary schools and deliver it to the ministry that draws up the final plan. On this basis, the minister makes a final decision on the entry. Special attention should be paid to all stakeholders here because our opportunities must not be fixed by current restrictions. We can ask whether the market can form an education system or an education system should form a market as one of the areas of human activity. Furthermore, it is important that the criteria for the entry are regulated and known for a longer period of time. The education system must be vertically and horizontally passable, as covered by the bill. As regards Article 27(3) on the termination of the election programme, he is certainly welcome from the position of students, however, we must observe the position of teachers. It seems to me that only election teachers here are subject to the valorisation of their work to express myself that way because students might be able to, let's say, teach her too harshly, so they don't want to attend the election program anymore. But in any case, such a provision should be welcomed, it must be, and even if one day we establish a more advanced school, maybe it will be for all the subjects that the students will valorize, so they'll say I want to go to this class or not. It is good that the class council delivers a final assessment of the conduct of the students because that is how the overall conduct of the students is evaluated. What seems most important to me in this legislative proposal is the organisation of complementary work. Sending a student to a correctional exam is not the solution. We know from experience in practice that in this short period of time if it remains until the correctional exam, the student will hardly master the material that was not in the regular program. There's too many holes in knowledge. In particular, the relationship between teachers and students will be expressed. When a counselor came to me in my teaching work for an hour to see how I do it, then at the end of the class she told me, you can hair the curriculum and the program, you can hair the watch, but what you can't fake is your relationship with the students, it can never be faked, it just exists. And in this sense, this provision will lead to this because students with behavioral problems and learning problems regularly seek attention. At least that's what I noticed. This is the way it's going to be made possible. What exists as a danger is the abuse of that right and a fair compensation for the work of teachers and teachers during that period. The expression of dissatisfaction with the assessment of pupils and parents should certainly be made possible and it is good that this is more clear to Article 76. When it comes to pedagogical measures, we must certainly think about the principle of justice and equality for all, while on the other hand we should consider both the suitability and purpose of a particular pedagogical measure. The overall assessment is that this legislative proposal goes in the direction of clarity and uniformity of the procedure of adoption and appeal of pedagogical measures, having in mind, above all, the preventive effect. In the end, personally, as an objection to this legislative proposal, I can give the irrevocable Article 105(6). Although the minister explained the intention of change, I personally think it violates the principle of the desired horizontal passing of the education system. And in the end, as far as the principal's concerned in elementary school, I don't think delay is the best solution, but it's certainly a fair solution. Attention should also be paid to the fact that individual directors elected before 2010 do not stay at work during the end of the term of office. Finally commend this legal solution and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96059	Thank you. The final minutes belong to Deputy Minister of Science, Education and Sports Roko Andricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96060	Let me apologize first, Minister Sailor had to go to Brussels so I had to replace him now in this second part of the discussion on amendments and amendments to the law. First, I would like to thank you for his and his personal name on the discussion, the comments, the proposals from the representatives clubs, and especially from individual representatives. As you know, these amendments and additions to this law are primarily aimed at overcoming the observed obstacles and shortcomings, to make the law as far as possible, until our application or implementation of a strategy which is one of their first objectives for which the funds in the state budget are secured, which is the introduction of a new curricula and the improvement of the teaching system in primary schools. Also, if you'll allow me to refer to a few direct questions about our Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in relation to investments, both earlier and these future ones who expect us in 2015 and beyond. So in short, nine projects to build schools and halls were successfully completed. For that, the funds were 309 million kunas. We also provided an additional 21 million kuna in the 2015 budget for the Novo Čice elementary schools, Pokkallje, and especially on the request of MP Boris, yes, the town of Split next year, or has already started to continue the second phase of school in Pujanke, as well as the construction of the primary school of Pazingrad. So the funds were secured and headed towards the building of the school of Pazingrad. All other initiatives are related to, as you yourself said, public private partnership and European funds, popular.... I'll just briefly tell you that the Istria County project is currently about half a billion kuna, in the second phase of the partner's election as part of a public private partnership to build 25 sub-projects of schools and halls, that the Varazdin County is currently in the debate of competitions for partners, that first round. The Bjelovar-Bilogor County is also preparing for publication in 2015 through the concept of public private partnership. At the beginning of the talks with the City of Zagreb, which is also ready to go to a public private partnership related to the construction of schools and halls in the following year. So it's that big step still in capital investment that goes towards building schools and halls. I think this government has succeeded, regardless of the situation it is in both the economy and the recession that is still going on, to extract the maximum resources to continue building the halls, as well as basic schools. What was also a discussion, and I think it is very important for us to hear your opinion about what we fully agree with, that just the amendments and additions of this law and the new network of schools will make even more optimal planning for the future because, as we all know, the most difficult thing is to plan the demographic structure of an end for such a long period of time as it should be a lifetime of some objects. I think that the combination of amendments and additions to this law, as well as the beginning of the implementation of curricula in 2015 will be the first step that will just go towards full optimisation of primary and secondary education systems. Finally, I would just like to point out that beyond all these other sources there is still the possibility of funding from European funds. Of course, there should always be sufficient capacity on local self-government units, so cities and counties. And our ministry also helps the financial units to prepare documentation for such projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96061	Thank you. The replica was reported by the respected Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96062	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Deputy, from your presentation, I haven't been able to figure out how many really school facilities are currently, so maybe I skipped that start, something came up. But from this second part I was talking about, it means that the former minister announced really first on the basis of his observation and found that a large number of schools are over 40 years old and that they need to rebuild and build and that new schools need to be created. Now let's look at the system we're working in, and this government is creating it. You're talking about Istria, Varazdinska, Bjelovar-Biogorje County, about a public private partnership and you say we have 55% insurance. So as a ministry, as a state and from you at local and regional level, we're asking the other 45%. And what do you do then? You bring the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Tax Act and take the city of Rijeka, say 50 million kuna, I don't know 40 million kuna. So, that kind of investment potential of theirs in that 45%. And now we're going to build schools with a public-private partnership. In what way? Where do they find those funds? It means that the program will absolutely be nothing unless the state increases its share to about 80%. That's what logic tells everyone. And the fact is, if 6 billion investments are being talked about, it's one for sure for the construction sector, it's a big swing. Well, that's a lot of investment, and we can see there's nothing there. We can talk here about how nice it all looks. However, we are also being denied by EU funds, especially the fact that you contact the school, that local self-governments appear with projects of schools, kindergartens and sports halls but cannot pass anywhere. They say they're not good projects. So how do we build that school? Only that local self-government gets credited and does something on its own, and there's no big help from the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96063	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I thank Deputy Minister of Science, Education and Sports Roko Andricevic and his associates. I thank the representatives who participated in the debate. We'll vote on this when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96064	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 763, the debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were filed according to a special table, we'll see now, there are more. I ask Deputy Minister of Science and Education of Honored Rok Andricevic to be shown in order, according to the table. First amendment of the honourable representative of Dunje Špoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96065	The Dunje Spoliar amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96066	Is that okay? Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number two of the respected representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96067	The amendment of the respected representative of Peja Grbina is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96068	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 3 of the HNS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96069	The amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HNS is not accepted, with a justification: the amendment is rejected because an amendment of similar content proposed by the representative of Peja Grbin has already been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96070	So the amendment was consummated in other words. On behalf of the club, I don't know if there's anything to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96071	Your Honor, Your Honor. Yes, we accept that argument and withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96072	Thank you very much. The amendment was consummated by the previous amendment. Amendment number four, honourable representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96073	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96074	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 5, Honored Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96075	The amendment is no longer accepted by reason: the concept of working experience is no longer mentioned in the nomotechnical arrangements of working relationships. The rules on whether work on contracts for vocational training without the establishment of a working relationship is included in the insurance internship are not subject to the definition of this law. If, according to the rules governing pension insurance, carried out at work under contracts for vocational training without the establishment of a working relationship is included in the insurance internship, it will also be recognised as the necessary working experience for the school director.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96076	Appreciation of the respected representative Bora Grubisic, the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96077	Thank you very much. This is what the French would say... so a little bit is accepted, a little bit is not accepted because you said in this second part of your explanation that this establishment of a working relationship, to explain to the public it's the 1600 kn that works to get involved in a job internship... pays pension and health insurance. Therefore, this should also be included in the number of years of overall insurance or work experience, as I show it in competitions for the school principal. In fact, in the end, you said that it would be some other law, but I insisted that it enter into this law because it is about education, or choice, of the principal's education, and not that by some other law, so that in the event of a dispute, one who is running must be taken by a lawyer to explain that it falls under it. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96078	Thank you very much. We would like to vote on the amendment of Honored Representative Bora Grubisic, number five, which the government does not accept. The vote is over. What's the score? The amendment has not received the required majority. Amendment number six of the same representative, Your Honor, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96079	Amendment 6 is not accepted by reason. The amendment is not accepted because the duration of the term of office of the Director is not governed by the contract of work which norms this provision but is determined by the decision to appoint the acting director in accordance with the Law on Institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96080	An indication of the applicant for the amendment, the respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96081	So it's about a duty, an officer of a duty appointed by the School Committee. So it's a temporary duty. This is where I added the amendment, so the school principal's office until the election of the new principal. So to define. This remains the school board's ability to actually manipulate the duration of its duties. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96082	Please vote on amendment number 6 of Honored Representative Bora Grubisic, whom the government does not accept. The vote is over. What's the score? I'm determining he didn't get the necessary majority of this amendment either. Amendment number 7 of the same representative, Deputy Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96083	Amendment No 7. is not accepted by reason. The amendment is not accepted, is not visible from which the legal provision is made and how it wants to be regulated. In particular, Article 131 regulates the working relationship of the person performing the duties of the Director, not the duration of the Director's term of office. And there's no sixth paragraph, so it's impossible to complete paragraph 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96084	An indication of the applicant for the amendment of the respected representative Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96085	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If you think that, let me say a missed ID like you said, then you could use this amendment in, therefore, to correct your position. It is that the perpetrator, excuse me for choosing the principal and being able to be elected for two mandates, is no more than two term of office as headmaster of the school. This is how you have a phenomenon in the Republic of Croatia to have lifelong school principals, they're lifelong. I know an example where he has a 25-year-old headmaster. It's not allowed for anyone of the younger students, so I don't tell the Internet generations to become school principals, to become a school manager. There's an education that's not that old and long ago, but this is how we have a principal who's 25, 30 years old school principals. That's why I wanted to limit this amendment to school principals for a 10-year time period. If the president, any president of Croatia, has only two mandates to be president of Croatia, then why school principals can be school principals for life. And a rector of the university two mandates can be. And the university rector can only be two mandates, so there's got to be another one. Why school principals have to be for life, I don't get it. You could use this idea if nothing else. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96086	Please vote on amendment number 7 of Honored Representative Bora Grubisic, whom the government does not accept. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. And Amendment number eight. The Legislative Committee, Deputy Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96087	The amendment of the Committee on Legislatives cannot be accepted by the Government, as the way it is proposed by amendments and additions makes it more clear that the above applies to all previous, present and future amendments and additions to the law in primary and secondary school education.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96088	I'm asking the applicant for an amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96089	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96090	Thank you very much. The amendment has been withdrawn. Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. The amendments that have not been submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture and the Honorable Representative, Jakša Baloevic, are not decided on. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that most votes, 107 for, 7 abstentions and 1 vote against P.Z.E. law passed. No. In 763, the text proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96091	And now we move on to the next item of the agenda. It is - Report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2013 The Reporter is the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute based on Articles 129 and 139. Pension Insurance Act. You received the material by mail. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership. You received the report at the session. I'm asking if the motionor would like to give an additional explanation. Yeah. Dear Mr. Srecko Vuković, Director of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96092	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In front of you is the 2013 Report of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute on Work and Business, which contains already the usual chapters on the state of the pension insurance system, intergenerational solidarity, the establishment of the Institute, its human potentials, information technology, the work of the Governing Council, financial operations, the portfolio of the Institute, and of course the exercise of the right and the work of the professional service with a table contribution. In short, we can say that the past business years in the office have been a sign of new jobs related to the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, and projects extending the field of electronic business of the Institute. First of all, I am thinking of replacing my work book with an electronic form of data management on insurance status, and the development of an e-login system in the office. And as usual, I'll say a few words, a few figures about the state of the pension insurance system, intergenerational solidarity at the end of 2013. After the 2010 and 2011 pensions were not harmonised in 2012, they were harmonised according to the Swiss formula by 206% and in 2013 additionally by 2.26%. Given the decline in GDP, there has been a slight increase in the share of pension expenditure in the gross domestic product. On 31.12.2013, there were a million and 191 thousand pensioners and a million and 401 thousand insurance companies, giving a ratio of one to one eighteen. We're at the level of 2012. Of the total number of users, 644 000 or 54% are old-age pensions and premature age. The disability pension was 305,000 users or 26% and the family pension of 241,000 users, or 20%, respectively. In 2013 alone, 49,000 new users made a pension of 34000 elderly, premature age, 3000 disabled and 12,000 family pensions, which is 2.74% higher than in 2012. It was continued, it should highlight the decline in the number of users, new users of disability pensions only four, five years ago. So there in 2008, in 2009, we had 13,000 new users of disability pensions in one year. In 2013, the figure was reduced to 2706 new users of disability pensions. Statistics also show that in 2013 users of old retirement averaged 32 years, early age 36 years, disabled 23, and the average of all pensioners was 30 years and it increased by three years in the last 15 years, so it increased. The average age of retirement was 64 years and 4 months, and for 53 years and 11 months. The average pension achieved under the Pension Insurance Act was reduced by tax and taxed at €2266 and its share in the average net salary was 40.79%. In 2012, it was 39.8%. The lowest share was 37% in 2000. When we withdraw from this average pension pensions achieved through the application of international social insurance contracts that are in the special scheme, the average pension is then raised in proportion to the average net salary to 44.4%, which is a 1% increase compared to 2012. The average age is 2500 23, which is 45.4% of the average net salary. Otherwise, in international publications, the average pension is mostly referred to as the average retirement pension for full-time workers and independent professions. Therefore, according to this 40-year retirement rate and higher on 31 December 2013, such pension was 4067 kuna or 73%, hence its share was 73% in the average net salary. Unfortunately, these users in Croatia were only 12.7%. Thus, those who have spent their entire working life making contributions. In addition to pension insurance on the basis of intergenerational solidarity, the Institute shall implement the procedures for the exercise of the right to compensation for children. In 2013, 204 000 941 users of allowances were used for an average of 383,000 children. The allowance for children was 367.00 kuna per child, and a little less than 1.7 billion kuna was spent for its financing in 2013. The revenues and total expenditure of the institutes were mostly balanced and amounted to HRK 36.59 billion. Unfortunately, the revenue from the contribution was only 19.28 billion kuna or 52.69% of total revenues in 2013, and revenues from the budget were 17.24 billion and 47.13% of total revenues, respectively. In the total expenditure structure, pension and pension income expenditures amounted to 36.12 billion or 98.68% of total expenditure. The operating costs of the Institute in 2013 were 50 million kuna, i.e. even 11.9% lower than in 2012 and were 1% of total pension expenditure. In this respect, the staff expenditures were reduced by 43 million or 13% for various reasons, so by abolishing the internship allowance according to the collective contract, the reduction of the coefficient and the reduction of the average number of employees. Material expenditures were reduced by an additional 7.65 million kuna and expenditure for the purchase of non-financial assets by 13.8 million kuna. From this, it is evident that all these operating costs of the Institute from year to year are thus reduced by almost 235 million kunas or annually by 100 million kunas in the period 2012-2014 when the cost is considered 2011. As part of the implementation of pension insurance in the Institute, a total of 450 thousand 133 applications were submitted in 2013 of which 429 thousand and 939 first-degree applications and 20 000 and 194 applications in the second-degree. The office thus totalled 501 thousand and 775 requests, of which 451 thousand 735 or 90% were resolved. These jobs were done with 2,06% less employees than in 2012 and here I have to note that since 1.01.2011. when in the office there were 3193 employees here at the end of 2013 was reduced by 246, and at the end of 2014, we are here for 314 employees less than or 10%. So, regardless of the new jobs that we received under the applicable laws for the application and implementation of amended laws, we continuously reduced both our costs and the number of employees, primarily by natural outflows, by going to retirement but, unfortunately, by leaving and by leaving and the quality of the younger staff of the IT profession due to relatively small salaries in the office itself. Of course, we have succeeded with the maximum engagement of internal reserves and redistribution of operations within the office. In 2013, several important strategic documents were adopted in the Institute, in particular the restructuring plan of the Croatian Institute for the period 2013-2016 and on this basis were adopted the Strategy for the management and management of real estate, information security, protection of persons and property, protection of the preservation of archive and registration material and action plans for the implementation of those strategies during the same medium term. According to the 2013 work programme, a number of projects related to the implementation of the rules governing the pension insurance of generation solidarity as well as those relating to the improvement and rationalisation of parts of the business process have been completed. One of the most important projects in 2013 as I mentioned at the outset was the project to replace the workbook with an electronic form of data management contained in the workbook. Since the date of Croatia's accession to the EU, so on 1 July 2013, the workbook in the previous form was suspended during the period of access and subsequently provided for electronic data management conducted in the workbook and, from the day of accession, the EU Institute shall lead and ensure the exchange of data and issue of certificates on the basis of insurance status records. This introduction of the e-workbook actually fits into a pre-defined strategy of the Institute aimed at making better use of the potential of e-commerce through intensive promotion of already existing e-services, or further development of new services whose introduction into business is planned through the next period as part of the project of building information communication infrastructure for the electronic operation of the Institute. As part of this, in 2013, the development of the e-application system in the office was intense. These are therefore electronic applications, a web application that allows users to login and log out on pension insurance and logins and changes in status. In 2013, we made all previous preparations so that we could do so from 1 January 2014. The amendment of the Pension Act or the new Pension Insurance Act introduced two important newspapers, namely the application and check-in of pension insurance within 24 hours and the obligation of an employer with more than three insurance companies to submit applications by electronic means. Since December 2013, when we had only 8% of electronic applications in the current system and everything else is papered now at the end of 2014. electronic applications are 83%. So you see how much the number of electronic applications has increased. We also worked on jobs to establish and expand electronic data exchange with state and public institutions as foreign pension insurance holders. In July 2013, we signed an agreement on the content and method of data delivery on student status during their regular schooling in primary and secondary schools on the basis of which the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports began to provide electronic data on the status of pupils required by the Institute to carry out procedures for the exercise of pension insurance rights and child allowances. By continuing negotiations with the foreign insurance provider to exchange data on the fact that the users of the pension were killed in order to prevent non-payments, we concluded and applied the Agreement with Slovenia, so during 2013, on preventing non-performing payments and practically daily up-to-date determination on the basis of data from the records with us of the OIB, with them their records. The facts of death therefore do not take us several months to determine that someone in a neighbouring or other state outside the Republic of Croatia died or eventually then uses an unaccompanied retirement pension. Also, we have prepared this agreement to a great extent and I hope that in 2015, it is not up to us to succeed and implement and implement both towards Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro. There are 105 thousand users to whom we pay our pensions, so to the area of the former state and here we estimate that because of the slowness of their death notification systems, death data comes to us, and then, of course, it is very difficult to force and recover those funds that go unaccounted for from Croatia. That is why one important project that we have undertaken, based on the amendments to the legal rules, is the recording of a personal identification number of so-called. As of autumn 2013, OIB pensioners, we changed the project, so before that we first exchanged data with the tax administration, with the Ministry of Administration, with the Ministry of Administration for those we couldn't get the OIB we sent them a memo to deliver, after they didn't, we suspended our pension for 46 777 users abroad, and 2809 users in Croatia. The Institute suspended their pension for them, a good part appeared and the pension was re-established with payouts, but still on today there were 2969 foreign users who had no OIB and 77 with payment to the Republic of Croatia. For them, all pensions have been suspended, and we assume that these are all users who would most likely or a large number of them not necessarily receive a pension through this period if we hadn't suspended it. By entering the EU, the institution has become competent for new jobs relating to the application of EU rules on social security coordination relating to the exercise of the right to child allowance and the determination of legislation applicable. The Office shall carry out such administrative procedure in order to adopt a decision on the legislation of a Member State applying to insurance undertakings by issuing A1 at the request of the employer or insurance undertaking. In the last year, we issued almost 12,000 certificates. Here's to teaching by the end of this year another thirty thousand, and I have to say that indeed, I must boast that these are confirmed in principle if the documentation is correct, they are correctly issued within 24 hours. Finally, we can say that, in our opinion, it is clear that there is another successful business year behind the Institute, all key jobs have been done within established deadlines and envisaged dynamics, with a reduction in the number of employees and a reduction in the cost of professional service work. At this point, given that the 2013 report is already at the end of 2014, I would say a few words and what we are doing now or what we are going to do directly in the next period in 2015. We have very important and extensive jobs ahead of us in implementing the Pension Insurance Act in two projects. One separation of pensions made according to a specific regulation per part of the pension is made according to a specific regulation and part of the pension is made on the basis of the insurance standings according to the general regulation and of the users whose part of the pension is therefore determined or made according to specific rules, the institution will make a decision on the corresponding parts of the pension. Also, we translate disability pensions into old age also through the Pension Insurance Act, and somewhere around 90,000 disabled pensioners who turned 65 will be translated into retirement pensions. Of course, in both cases and separation, I have to mention that, and in the translation of disability into old age, it remains the same. Therefore, the total amount of the pension before and after the implementation of these legal articles remains the same. Also, of course, there's us and I would say about the pensioners also a very good thing, raising this deduction, personal deduction for pensioners from 3400 to 3800 kuna, and the Institute has been preparing since 1 January, we are the ones who are keeping an eye on persons with disabilities for the purpose of monitoring and fulfilling the obligation of quota employment of persons with disabilities of the Institute will be led by this eyewitness and delivering data to the Office for Skills, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. The work is under way to expand the electronic documentation management system to 15 new locations in the district services and offices that we plan and end here at the end of 2014 and thus so on. Therefore, the electronic system of document management will be accepted, included in all our regional services and offices. Here, therefore, and in the next period our priorities remain of course, the quality of our business, because we are bound, of course, to strengthen administrative capacity and to educate staff to implement EU rules as some kind of a secret mission to our users and insurance companies under the conditions of membership of the Republic of Croatia in the EU. Thank you very much. That's it. Of course I'm staying open to your questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96093	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club of Independent Representatives Mr Linić, Vuksic and Hodzic, the distinguished representative Slavko Linic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96094	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Director, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the club, I will not be much obliged to report on the work of the Institute, except for the word of praise not only for the quality report but for the entire activity in 2013 where we see that they also reduced the number of employees, where they reduced the expenditure which unfortunately is not the practice of the companies we manage. We see that it's very serious. On the other hand, very good cooperation with European institutions and adaptations now and European directives, not to mention what has been done to raise the quality of work through the use of electronic computers and methodologies. So besides the words of praise, I don't think the Bureau needs to waste any more words, so that's also why the club will accept this report. But what's valuable in this report, which each of us can use to make a score, is a pension insurance system, so I'll stick with it more. I would say we can commend Croatia's government because in the difficult crisis and collapse of the system it did not reduce pensions and kept pensions with all the negative consequences on the state budget. In that part, we can commend the Government, but if we are saying whether the Government has made sure that a system that is not sustainable tries to change, repair, to create a strategy for what we will do in that part, unfortunately not a single word from the Croatian Government. And the situation in the system is worrying. So I'm just going to read the numbers that are alarming and that really should turn us around to solve that system. Trend insurance is falling, and user trend is growing, which means the unsustainability of the battle against the excessive deficit because it's getting less and less insurance, but we see here at the end of last year 400 thousand, this year the data is saying million 340, million 360, so 2014 is even worse. There's a rapid drop in the security number. The budget for next year speaks 0.7% less employees, so we expect about a million and 300 thousand. One hundred thousand insurance companies from the end of 2013 will assume less and the number of users will rise. If we still take it to mean that the number of employees will fall, that many companies have not recovered, obviously a part of them will not be at the office, but quickly go either to early retirements or to prematurely with all the negative consequences or try to find a solution through disability pensions. Thus, 48 thousand and 700 or, as the introduction noted, nearly 49,000 are the inflows of new pensioners in 2013. In 2014, I'm afraid there will be nothing less, and in 2015 we can expect a far greater number of insurance companies. So, a million 190 thousand pensioners or users, if we add those that are down at the 12th month, and we see that that's about 26 thousand and 900 at the end of the year, now I see that the result is much better, a total of a million 217 thousand users were at the end of last year. That's where the pensioner's relationship is one-eight-one. In short, the unsustainable system and something must be done in that part. Also, in 2013 we had a higher share of pensions in GDP and we had already reached 11% of GDP. So, that government policy doesn't hit these problems and put the crisis on the pensioners raises participation in GDP, but at the same time when we talk about what's at the expense of deficits, we see that pensions are going to raise our government budget deficits year after year, so we're simply going to poverty on something else. Do health care, do education and education, do you actually support the economy in the battle for recovery? What's also worrying about that part, that's when we look at the insurance company and then we see that out of those million and 400 thousand insurance companies 46% is less than 40 years old. Now we're coming up with the biggest problem. So almost 50% is less than 40 years old or let's be exact, they're not the ones who are going to get pensions by generational solidarity, they're going to get the foundation of their own savings. And what's the problem with your own savings? In own savings, the problem is that 5% of pensions, salaries allocated to insurance on their own savings, are not enough to retire. And when you look at it, it means just by reading that information, you already have 650 thousand young people who have no chance of surviving in retirement. Because what does your own savings mean? The backbone of retirement is our own savings, and we're going to have some state social pension, not generational... So we're barely reflecting generational solidarity with this system, and basically destroying the entire system. So the question remains whether we should return the analysis, otherwise I'm against it, but what is the purpose of our own savings? Where do we see our own savings when we're already producing 650 thousand poor people because they won't be able to survive that own savings? In fact, if you add 370,000 of those who are 40 to 50 years old, the largest part of them are in that part. So basically, we don't see and see the possibility of maintaining a system like this. So we need serious analysis, the government would have to take this problem seriously because if we don't raise 5% to at least 10%, we don't see the purpose of maintaining our own savings system if we produce close to a million new poor people the moment they retire. And that's the most dangerous data that we have in front of our eyes, that has to put us on alert and just try to see what we do in the pension system to keep this situation in generational solidarity, and try to see the survival of this other one. However, the money allocated to pension funds did not return to jobs, they did not. We are essentially funding projects from pension funds through the capital market we don't see at all. Therefore, we draw out the money, the money is unfortunately immobilized, not in some Croatian projects in job creation, and on the other hand you would say the systems of the product of the new poor and the new misery in the pension system. All this is the reason that these data must indeed be alarming for the Croatian government, which by analysis must tell us what we will do. So on the basis of this data, we should know whether or not to raise from 5 to 10 our own insurance and our own savings for young people. Because if we don't need to determine what the purpose of this system is, because it's obvious we won't have a social pension or a state pension, but we're going to go back to the generation savings system again, which means we're going to have such high income pensions and we're going to have to have current workers pay for pensioners, not save for ourselves. So our system is compromised, we have a combination of systems, and we see that we are not able to do that system that we have proposed and maintained. The biggest problem is because the average pension is only 2.266 kuna. It's impossible to live from that average pension. So a low pension doesn't give the government and we don't have any chance of doing anything for the new system of our own savings, let alone raising the standards of pensioners, and that's our biggest problem. And then we slowly come to the conclusion that the only solution is to raise the number of insurance companies, it is evident that it would already be easier to breathe that instead of a million 400 and tomorrow a million 300 I have a million 700 thousand pensioners, and that means this system of these situations in the Peace Fund requires very, very significant government activity to support investment and new jobs. Unfortunately, we don't see it in these three years of government work, unfortunately we don't see it in the state budget for 2014 and that means we're going to be putting the pension system at risk in 2015, one and another insurance system. What about the excessive deficit? We are leading the controversy here whether the deficit is 15, 17, 19, 20 billion, and the pension system produces no less or less in 2013. 17.2 billion 900. Therefore, this system is already close to 50% co-financed from the state budget compared to the contributions paid. What is evident next year is that we will have a relationship really 50-50% if we will fall to a million 300 thousand insurance companies in 2015, and we will grow the number of pensioners. These impact on the state budget where you secure 50% of the money from the budget simply means a lasting 17 billion minus that minus, you always ask the question how you can cover it. While you have economic growth, that impact is negative and can somehow be mitigated, but with stagnation, with a zero rate, you have a real 17 billion minus, so add 10 or 11 billion interest, you've come to 28 billion deficits a year at just two basics, pension systems plus RH debts. So I believe that no wizard can do without investment, without new jobs, to solve a lasting dubious of nearly 30 billion kunas as many as only two systems, debts and pension systems produce. Therefore, they commend the report but this report was still necessary for the government to work very well, find a strategy and give us a proposal to choose the path that we will take with the pension system which is the biggest cause of the disorder or so on. Excessive deficit. Without it, the extraordinary efforts of the institute, but apparently in the government few can read it. The club will support the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96095	I thank my colleague Linic. We're moving on to replicas. First came the esteemed Zeljko Schamper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96096	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Linic, there's something wrong with me when you're talking about the inflow of new pensioners. Here's the exact data from the statistical information, in 2013, we had 48 thousand 761 new pensioners in that year. 39 thousand 270 died. So the tide is 9000 491, so below 10 grand. This shows us that about an annual inflow of new pensioners is about 10 grand because on average, from 2008 to 2013, we received a new 42 thousand. On average, we have 50 grand a year and 40 grand dies. Of which 20% new and 80% old pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96097	The reply to the replica is the esteemed Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96098	I'd hate to have sex with numbers about that because dying pensioners means only a different category of pensioners. Because simply if a pensioner dies, there's always a family pension and someone's using that pension. So there's a number of reductions by a certain number but not as many as die.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96099	Second replica, respected Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96100	Thank you. Well, I'd agree with most of the valuable courts and grades you've given. I'm only afraid that the simple current recession time at the 7th year of recession is not the time when we can do more of that extra blow actually on that part of the people who are working to further increase their isolation by the second column from 5 to 10%. Maybe it's a shame they actually missed the years of those biggest conjunctures in '04. Until '07. when it could have been much more painless and the processes were visible, they are now only getting worse during these years of recession. And I think that, I don't know if we can talk about the pension system as a cause. What at this point, it is one of the generators and the very structure of the current pension system is the consequence, the consequences of politics and the way it is under-thinking are actually these policies leading over all these previous years. And I agree with you that the only answer is finally working. However we turn to work, and I'm going to mention once again one of my ideas or thinking together that we actually have to watch how to open up the possibility for years to come to the labour market of several hundred thousand people who today have pensioner status. Therefore, they are open to space and the possibility that they can, to some extent, improve their revenues through inclusion in the labour market. How? So the flexibility of labour legislation is, in fact, the opening of the possibility of a contract on work, of course, that it is not competitive, but there are various other opportunities to... One part of the pensioners, to open up space for them to be included in the labour market in different forms in the coming years, and thus to fill their incomes, which will clearly be less and less as the years will come. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96101	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96102	... I agree with my colleague. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As early as 2003, it was first discussed to increase the amount of own savings from 5% to 8%, as we compare that it was a debate in government circles in 2003, today in 2014 or before 2015, we see that it was 12 years lost. But at the same time, let's be honest with those 12 years also means 12 years of poverty to all those who are in the system of their own savings. But let's be honest one of the solutions is to reduce the health rate, increase the pension rate, which means it can be done. But, of course, migration, health funding on property, which means that the richer they pay for health care and that there is room for a pension system that is the cause of a huge deficit and at the same time the poverty of future pensioners. So, the solution is, the worst thing is when the government doesn't want to talk about solutions, but we have Q status, so the problem is a 6-year recession, so the problem is this, and in fact, they can be solved and in such conditions they can bring.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96103	Third replica of the esteemed Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96104	Well, I have to say, dear colleague Linic, that my colleague Schamper is right because he included all of what you said and family-related pensions and so because otherwise, 50 grand a year's increase would have 500 thousand more pensioners in 10 years. So the statistics are very precise. What I wanted to replicate to you is about one of your sayings that the pension system produces 17 billion kunas of uncovered funds through contributions. The peace system, what pension system? So we have a public institution here, a public insurance company that is no longer the classic insurance company because all of his governments, all of his policies have imposed certain obligations on him through special laws, covered or uncovered by contributions. So 5 billion that are collected from contributions don't end up in a pillar of generation solidarity but goes to the personal accounts of citizens with very questionable effects after 10, 15, 20 or 40 years. So the question is whether we can qualify that pension system to produce or laws that we have passed in this House. Because if you look at what is covered by the contributions compared to what is being received, you'll miss your distinguished colleague Linic about 350 million kuna per month to cover if you look at only those pensions covered by work or contributions. And this second we have special regulations... Yeah, yeah, that's right. We can analyze that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96105	Reply to the replica, dear colleague Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96106	Here we heard the director who made it very clear that in 2015 he will work to separate pensions to see exactly what it is from work and what it is by special regulations. For example, I have spent most of my work hours in the economy and in the work. Therefore, we will have clear statements in that section very soon in 2015, which are pensions under special regulations for which contributions are not possibly paid or are not covered by work, and we will see. But you know, it's not 17 billion, or if you're watching you say 250 million means 5 billion or 4 billion. So let's know that the differences are far, far greater and the system is a problem because it would simply be okay for pensions to be covered with employee contributions, regardless of how. On the other hand, we identified ourselves, and it was a very strong commitment to go into two systems. Therefore, you have to understand 5% of what we have determined to be your own savings is another system that is not under the authority of the Pension Insurance Office, but we have thus defined ourselves. The main problem is that the system will create new poor people because 5% of the savings will not be 50% of this pension based on generation solidarity. That's our problem. So we think that the systems we've chosen in this House are wrong and we should review them and see what we do because we're not just going to have the poor who created this system generational but also tomorrow's with their own savings and these systems need to be discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96107	The last replica of Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96108	Thank you very much. Kolega Linić, well it is very convenient to discuss such reports with numbers and when we look at which two projects Croatian citizens have invested the most in this century then it was the Croatian highways and the second pillar of pension, with exactly what they were meant to produce each other, with the second pillar of the Croatian citizen cost twice as much as Croatian highways. Together, however, both have funded Croatian citizens with 100 billion kuna in the past 12 years. One should be the basic infrastructure project for the development of Croatia's economy, the other should be one of the most important leverages for the development of the financial market through which new jobs would be created all together tomorrow. Today, is that it? A lot of talk about the monetization of highways, however, about what costs twice as much nobody talks about because there is no courage, there is no courage to say what is going to happen because we all know that at this point the separation for the second pillar of retirement took 10%, we all know that Croatian citizens have a decent pension tomorrow. But you heard the minister's statement today, he says if you don't monetize the highway, the fuel will pick up 40 limes. Based on what calculations? That would be the same story if Mr. Vukovic had come to this pay phone today and said irresponsiblely unless there was an increase in retirement for the second pillar of 10% of pension pensioners in 10 years will be on welfare. So that would be equivalent, but man isn't irresponsible, he doesn't think to say something. However, in this report, when it looks at it, the second pillar of pension needs to be raised, as these 65 billion costs Croatia not only 65 billion, most of that money is invested in government bonds on which the Croatian state pays another 6-7% interest. So it costs a lot more. And let's not keep staring and be afraid to tell us what Croatian truth is that Croatian citizens cost an awful lot and that's why I'm going to apply for an individual.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96109	The replica matches Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96110	I agree with my colleague Shuker that we have no answer. So we have two systems, one we barely maintain, that generational one, and we see how catastrophic the low, the average pensions and the other system that needs to scare us, why, because we haven't upgraded it for 12 years. We didn't touch it, we started it, and we stopped at it in 2001, and that's the problem we need to be afraid of, it's systems, it's serious things to talk about. And not to mention that the money that the days did not produce jobs because it was these money that was allocated for the second pension column that was supposed to be used for fighting, for production, for new jobs, for strengthening the placement, for competitiveness of the Croatian state and for Croatian production that should have been more competitive because the market has better prices for the economy. We didn't have all this, and that's why these systems should be talked about, and I agree with you, not in a way that we're going to lift 40 limes, no, the message from Minister Hajdaš Doncic needs only one. 40 limes you pulled out of the highway to the railroad, put them back because no one agrees that it should go for investment if he failed to monetize and concession the roads. Because if it is necessary to raise 40 liras of excise duty on fuel then for the pension system, and not for projects which he is unable to realise, he has neither spent the privatisation of freight transport nor launched investments in the Croatian Railways. So you always have to choose what are priorities, pensions always before funding failed companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96111	On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Nada Murganic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96112	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear principal and deputy, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. According to the 2013 report on the work and business of the Pension Insurance Office, we have a lot of statistics. The report is indeed abundant, and each of us will certainly point out some of whom he considers to be interesting and will in some ways be the backbone and its discussions and possibly the replica. In 2013, what we all love and have to point out is the number of millions of 190 thousand 815 pensioners and what we all also stress because it is an extremely significant information, i.e. the ratio of insurance and pensioners and users, and it is 1:1.18. This trend in the growth of the number of pensioners and the decline of the number of insurance companies has been present since 2009 when it was 1:1.30 and it decreases so that we now have this number, although already in 2011, these negative trends have stopped because mild economic growth has been recorded. Mandatory insurance companies on 31.12.2013 were a million and 400 thousand 631. And what was interesting in the previous debate was that at the age of 46.67%, between 40 and 49 years of age 26.72% and between 50 and 59 years of age 22%, 60 years of age there are only 4.42% of insurance companies. According to insurance, the highest number of insurance companies are 84 employees of legal entities. In physical 7.68, the craftsman was less 4.46. And what needs to be pointed out is that farmers who have 1,70% of insurance companies who are back in the 20th year have been continuously reduced by the number and share of farmers in general in the total number of insurance companies because this is the consequence of the migration of the village – the city and the general ageing of the population in the villages. The number of insurance companies has also decreased since 2008, with exceptions to seasonal employment periods, but therefore the number of pensioners is increasing. And there's a lot of reasons for that. What we like to point out is that the economic crisis has affected this, since, in the case of significant redundancies, workers have found, in this way, a solution to their existence even if it has been reduced, or minimal. Also what is happening is the result of demographic movements that now appears a so-called. A baby boom generation born after World War II. Then we also had the growth of the natural growth of the population and it was simply a generation that had matured for retirement. In 2013 33644 old and early pensions, invalid 12000 and family pensions were also made. 12000 pardons that is more by 2.74% compared to 2012. What might be just as interesting to say when highlighted when we talk about statistics. These are the numbers related to disability pensions that are growing after 2000 to 2009 which, due to the increase in age-limits for retirement, insurance companies of older age are in a way and are realistically expected to have reduced and working skills. And the increase was halted in 2009 and there was also a reduced increase in family pensions. What may have been interesting for me to look at and point out is the average number of years of retirement and years of pension use, the average age of 32 years is used for almost 20 years and the disability for which the average age of 23 years is used for 20 years and 4 months and family 28 years of internship. It's enjoyed, it's used for 17 years and 3 months. And the highest number of pensioners in the age group between 65 and 69 and are 19.06%. What's good is that in the trend of reducing the share of younger age groups in the pension population, it is related to changes to the rules relating to the conditions of retirement. What is now well pointed out in previous discussions is the ratio of the total income of the pension insurance institutions to 52.69% and the state budget of 47%. And what is also pointed out is that it should be said again that is the share of pension expenditure in GDP that has increased to 11%. In order to bring pensions into line with wage growth and consumer prices that have aligned and increased by 2.08% and this trend in increasing the share of pension expenditure in GDP has increased from 10.77% to this 11% since 2012. The average pension made under the Pension Insurance Act was spoken of at 2266.29 kuna. A slightly higher average is if those pensions that have been made under international agreements are excluded, and we can really all agree together that such pensions clearly speak about the socioeconomic status of our pensioners, more so if we specifically point out that 250 000, therefore more of them even have a pension that is lower than 1500 kuna and that pensioners, very large majority of them are often users of various social assistance and social benefits. Normally, a slightly larger average retirement is for full-time workers. However, when we add what is this working time and what is the amount and again, no matter what the larger amount is, we can really talk about very low pensions and the very poor socioeconomic status of our pensioners. In addition to pension insurance on the basis of intergenerational solidarity, this institution has been engaged in and implemented the process of exercising the right to children's allowances and I don't know if it's good or not to say it, but it might be better given the demographic image of Croatia if there were more extras. But if we put extras on the patriarchal status, parent property status, then that's not a very good wish. But mostly 367.40 kuna per child is set aside for children’s allowance and total use by 383,000 199 children. In the 1990s, the Institute made all the requests in 2013 and in terms of this report, which was really precise and extensively made, and in what the office was doing at work, we can in some ways say that this job was really as correct as this report was done. And what I've pointed out is that there are no shortages of statistical data but what we all here and in this debate expect is a variety of recommendations and suggestions to improve all of these negative trends. Is this a question in this report of professional service or not, but it is probably up to all of us to talk about it and talk about it and discuss it. So whenever a theme is found on the agenda, the subject of pension and pension insurance cannot be avoided by the problem followed by this topic, which is the overall economic problem, it is a total social picture of all of us and especially pensioners, it is a particularly prominent and demographic picture of society. Unfavourable proportion of pensioners and employees who are full of the Mirovinski Fund with their contribution. Small pensions, however, given the situation we have been in for a long time, and what indicators and trends we cannot expect to be increased. And what is very often, perhaps, some times and in good faith stands out in public, and that is what pensions will not be reduced or pensions will be paid is safe. In any case, it kind of sounds like an increased fear that such small pensions might be questionable. We all know that reduced economic activity and domestic consumption. We know that public debt is much bigger than last year. So the 2014 Report compared to these statistics, from which we will be able to read again the socio-economic situation of the pensioners will certainly be no more optimistic or positive. The number of employees after seasonal employment continues to exceed 300 thousand and what is also important for this topic is that in Croatia it is clear that the unemployment of young people who cross 40% and of us only have Greece, Italy and Spain more unemployed. The data that GDP continues to fall, that exports to decline depends on the quarter, that a reduction in real traffic is reported to hit many, also affects our pensioners who, apart from poverty and other than the increased needs of living costs, also have problems with their health conditions. We also mentioned the baby boom generation and it associated us with the fact that we should really talk about the demographic image of the Republic of Croatia, which belongs to the weakest country of Europe with the oldest population because some areas in our country also record a 24-percent share of the elderly of 65 years in the total population. And then, of course, we can expect this kind of need, or this kind of demand for the Peace Fund. The negative trends in natural growth are also constantly present, and we also have increased migration of the working-active population, the population of a fertilised age which certainly does not talk about a bright future not only about this topic of pensioners and pensions but in general. Because if some measures are not urgently taken alongside others and demographic policy measures, if migration policy is not designed, which would be good and high-quality, in any case, all the strategies that we have brought to this House these days will not have anyone to implement and implement for anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96113	Thank you. The Independent Representatives Club was registered with Grubisic and Cain but has no one and loses the right to debate. On behalf of Croatian Labourists – The parties of work will be spoken by the esteemed Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96114	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected director of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute with associate, colleague and fellow representatives. When it comes to the 2013 report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, we can only commend it because it was really made quality with all possible data that were relevant in 2013. And clearly, we can also draw certain conclusions from this data and follow the trend of what's going on in the pension system. Of course, that part of the job was done very well when it comes to pension insurance services. And what's said today with a smaller number of employees is quality doing all the jobs, there is also a certain efficiency in this business, which means that business is also rationalised, that what is more effective is, in any case, to praise that part of the trend that can still make positive shifts and that they give certain results. I must make it clear that this part is especially important when it comes to employees at the Croatian Pension Insurance Office that in 2013 they came into a situation where gross salaries for about 555 kuna are on fire, and when we translate it into net wages, it is also between 300 and 350 kunas of smaller incomes for a significantly larger part of the work done by fewer workers and the effects are clearly shown here. And on the other hand to praise it is certainly that at the Croatian Pension Insurance Office somewhere about 77% of the female labour force is employed and they have done the part which is also commendable to them in any case. The second thing I want to say in particular, and that is the question, this report can serve us as a background, but it is important that what the predecessors said is quite questionable and the existence of this system in the future, especially with these trends that are happening, and there are a few things that I want to point out specifically, and the predecessors have talked about whether we have one system that is through two pension funds and within that if we take that certain pension rights have been achieved in the way that those who went to retirement with pension funds where they singled out 20%, there are no more of those pensioners who are from another pension column. And today we have a situation when we talk about generation solidarity that then 5% less singled out with this part when it comes to funding, and looking at a total of about a pension fund that is one third of the budget 36 billion that are questionable especially in the way we see and from the new budget to plan contributions that will be significantly smaller somewhere around a billion kuna will be less isolated when it comes to contributions, which means that we need to get in touch with those other funds when it comes to the budget so that pensions can be paid. Something that, when we're talking about the pension fund, and you're here, and you're pointing me out, and in some ways, it's also something inside of it to think about whether in these 36 billion there's supposed to be a child's allowance of a billion and 700 million, is that part of the pension fund? I personally don't think it should fall under some other ministry. It's no problem that we shouldn't pay it off, but somehow I'm not paying a child's allowance to leave the pension fund, somehow if we're looking somewhere in the future, I don't think it's good, but it should go under some other ministry. And clearly then and in that part when it's a matter of pension expenditure, then it would be slightly different to look at it, because it's a billion and 700 thousand kuna less within those funds. But, well, when we talk about sustainability then we must first say we have this part of the trend that we are constantly falling number of insurance companies, we have indicators this year that there are fewer employees, we also have indicators that the salaries have fallen, and on the other hand, the pension funds are smaller and on the other hand we have what I've been saying before that 15% of the part that sort of serves those in generation solidarity that they have achieved or will eventually still achieve pensions for the 20% exemption when they were working. Is such a system sustainable under these circumstances? This is a clear one question that all together should answer very seriously, especially if this is the system and system through two such insurances he is probably based on that that should grow employment, a greater number of people to work and stand out for funds, then it is clear that this second part of the mandatory fund which is said to be in some way and personal isolation, and the personal rights of each individual then in such a case and is sustainable, and clear and with that other part of which it is necessary to speak clearly and that is also the question of the fall of wages and the decommissioning on the basis of the fall of pay of certain contributions we come to such a particular situation where this is very difficultly sustainable. Especially when we take on the question of pensioners' social situation, then somewhere around 50% of the pensioners have a pension of up to 2,000 kuna. If we take what it is today, we can't seriously say that these are pensions that there are over 555 thousand pensioners, which we also have a situation where a large number of pensioners and it's being carried out or simply have not been able to pay all of their obligations to the director and the costs that come to them every month. And it's particularly worrying, and it's a question of when we're talking about those employees who even single out pension funds, it's insurance companies, that we can say somewhere those who actually create and do something,...of 58 thousand pensioners and 240 thousand of those who work in the processing industry, close to 100 thousand in construction, it's somewhere around 400 thousand insurance companies that actually finance with their contributions. On the other hand, we have to go back to that part of a very large number, somewhere over 300 thousand of them that are financed from the budget, and that's just part of the money that doesn't come fresh into the budget, but they're just spinning in that way. And something that Croatia's economy is likely to suffer when it comes to the economic crisis, and this is also a large number of people employed in trade because it was always expected through the budget itself and the value added tax that it would be an effective guarantee of filling the budget and serviceing this everything we have. Clearly the moment the purchasing power fell, then that part of the separation is, and we have this situation where we have a deficit. What I would especially praise, which is what will happen this year, which is that all pensions will be recalculated and we will have a situation to know what it really is when it comes to retirement, which is a disability pension, which is a family pension and on the other hand the category of pensions that are under special regulations. Clearly, I am glad to hear that no one will be reduced to rights, but the question is whether there will be enough funding in the budget, especially this billion if certain other things fail and there are not enough funds, then it will be clear that there will be a quality of pension payment, and that is in some way the Labourist's thinking that we should open up a serious topic about what the future of the pension system is, because it is a third of the people in the Republic who are receiving pensions, and that is the only source of income, respecting everything that has been said earlier and what we have warned about, but individuals have said to allow the pensioners to and to work, such a law has been passed, all those who have full age pensions, have a chance of being employed, but I'm afraid if the economy doesn't start, if the investments don't start, then neither the pensioners nor the other will have a chance of work, and if these trends are going to be done so much, and then they'll be less. Otherwise, just the report, I repeat, is quality, we support it and it is a good basis for discussion that we need to talk very seriously about when it comes to the pension system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96115	Thank you. Silvano Hrelja, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96116	Dear fellow Tušak, I have responded to the replica for one possible delusion by the viewer or listener of this or such similar debate. In fact, you've repeatedly said we're discussing a pension fund. Today we are discussing a report from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. His trust is a state treasury. So before the '90s it was a republican fund that had funds, which had money. Of course, in these relationships, insurance and pensioners are not possible. So here the functioning of this Croatian Pensions Institute is on current transfers, so the contributions enter the Treasury and are paid for those living from past work, so this is the process. Why am I reacting? Because a lot of people ask me who ate our money. So, the Croatian Pension Insurance Office is not a bank of pigs, it's not savings, it's no savings cooperative. They're calculating, they're dealing with pensioners' rights and insurance. So, we at the Croatian Pensions Institute do not pay that we have money to pay, but by paying our contributions, pensions are paid to the pensioners, and we create a level of our right when we retire. So it's important this 10 times, 100 times repeat that people have no expectations of this institution. By the way, I'm joining the commendation, but for one commendation, I'm not. I would not praise the director if he had reduced the costs so much because the amount of work in the Croatian Institute with a smaller number of people has been increased. This deserves an increase in wages and an increase in employees' rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96117	Zlatko Tušak, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96118	Thank you. I especially join what you have said that employees at the Croatian Institute deserve to be rewarded because they have worked much more and quality with a smaller number of perpetrators, and here I fully respect you and your discussion and clearly, I apologize to the public, and to you, but... it is in the conversation when it comes to the fund, I have used it in a normal way, but it is clear here that the Croatian Pension Insurance Office is aware of it and when we talk about generation solidarity, I have talked about it in my discussion, so thank you for correcting me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96119	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Vanja Posavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96120	I thank the esteemed vice president. Head of the office with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. The subject of this report is compulsory pension insurance based on intergenerational solidarity and work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. And right away at the beginning, so let me say that the SDP club will support the work and business report of the HZMO for 2013 and I will just follow this report which is really high-quality and which should be supported and commended. I'm going to look back at some data that I think is important and that may already be said, but it's not bad to do it again. The fact is that there was a continued trend in the growth of the number of users of pensions and the decline of the number of insurance companies, and a million 190 thousand 815 pensioners and a million 400 thousand 631 insurance companies were recorded in the office so that the ratio between the two groups was 1:18%, which is equal to the ratio in 2012, and in 2009, this ratio was 1:1.30 and 1:1,23 respectively, respectively. In 2013 pensions were harmonised by 2.26%, while the share of pension expenditure in GDP increased to 11%. The share of pension expenditure in GDP in 2009 was 10.67% and increased to 10.96% in 2010 as a result of the increase in the number of pensioners of the allowance to pensions and GDP cuts in that period. The share of pension expenditure in GDP in 2011 decreased slightly to 10.77% despite an increase in the number of pensioners by approximately 1% compared to the previous year, resulting in no pension adjustment during 2010 and 2011. In accordance with the Law on the Suspension of Pensions in the period from 1 January to 31 December 2011, pensions and pensions in 2011 were not harmonised, and from 1 January 2012 a regular adjustment of pensions was re-established twice a year towards salary growth and consumer prices by 2,06%. So despite the slowdown in the number of pensioners, the share of pension expenditure in GDP rose slightly to 10.82% of GDP in 2012. The average pension achieved under the Retirement Insurance Act for December 2013 was reduced for taxes and taxes at 2.266.29 kuna, the share of the average net salary in the Republic of Croatia was 40.79%, and the average pension without pensions achieved by the International Social Insurance Contracts was approximately 1%, or 44.40%, respectively. The average retirement pension was 2.523,38 kuna or 45.42% net salary, and the average retirement pension without pensions achieved under international contracts was 2.791,18 kuna or 50.24% of the average net salary. The average retirement pension rate is 32 years old, the user of early age 36, disabled 23, and the average retirement pension rate of all pensioners is 30 years and over the last 15 years has increased by 3 years. The share of pensioners with a 40-year retirement period and more mildly increased by 31.12.2013. was 12.78% while, for example, it was 12.35%. In 2013, the average use of retirement is 19 years and 7 months, 7 months longer than in 2012, disabled 20 years and 4 months, and family 17 years and 3 months. Out of the million 190 thousand 815 pensioners including the number of Croatian military pensioners, Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and the Croatian Council defend them 664 thousand 165 users are age pensioners. According to the above criteria, the retirement pension determined on the basis of a 40-year-old pension and over on 31.12.2013 was carried out by Kuna 4,067,21. In addition to pension insurance on the basis of intergenerational solidarity, the Institute also implements the procedures for the exercise of the right to compensation for children. In 2013, an average of 204.941 users were used for an average of 383.199 children. The allowance for children amounted to an average of 367.40 kuna per child, and a total of billions and 691 million kuna were spent for its financing in 2013. The total revenues of the institute amounted to HRK 36,595 billion, with expenditures of HRK 36,604 billion, pension expenditure and pension incomes being EUR 36,120 billion, pension expenditure and pension benefits from Croatian defenders were planned within the division of the Ministry of Labour and Pension System. At the end of 2013, 2,947 employees were employed at the Institute and 62 fewer than at the end of 2012, which means that all of these jobs continued to be very high quality with 2,06% less employees than in 2012. This report has been properly done, and given the size of the work carried out by the Pension Insurance Office, and there are still many jobs that were successfully done in 2013. The SDP supports the HZMO report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96121	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU colleague Zeljko Shemper.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96122	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, the Honorable Director with an associate, colleague and colleague. We have a report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and the state of the pension system based on generation solidarity for 2013. The report shows that there was a continued trend in the reduction of the ratio between insurance and pensioners in 2013. While in the '90s, the ratio was 1:3, '98. It has been cut to 1, 1,5 in order to fall to the lowest ratio of 1:1,18 in 2013 according to this report. But in this calculation, we have to consider that we're 31. 12. In 2013, there were 26, almost 27 thousand pensioners without the OIB who were suspended from pension payments and did not participate in the total number of pensioners. With them, the ratio of insurance and pensioners would be 1:1.15 and the number of pensioners at 2012 level would be lower by 32 000. The biggest problem is and the consequences for the pension system of the Republic of Croatia we can say the right hawari were created by '99. The year when a lot of 562,000 insurance companies were lost, we got 362,000 new pensioners and 200 grand ended up on the stock market. If we compare the number of insurance at the end of '99. and at the end of 2013, there has been a very clear stagnation on the number of employees in the last 15 years. They have also been stagnating for 6 years the collected contributions at the level of 19 billion kuna. Another problem is that a large number of pensions are not covered by the contributions paid, there are a lot of generation solidarity, a lot of social benefits, too many benefits and still significant consequences of the grey economy or the non-payment of contributions. The unfavourable ratio of insurance and pensioners as a result of too few employees, the demographic situation of the population, still existing injustices in the Pension Insurance Act between the two generations of pensioners and this long-term crisis are the biggest problems of the Croatian pension system. The exit from these problems is constantly sought in reforms and restrictions in the pension system and the biggest problems are beyond it in our economic and economic system. We keep saying that there are too many pensioners in the Republic of Croatia, that there is too much spending on pensions and often pensions are placed in social giving, which they are at their own height, but they are still earned by long-term contributions. The share of total pension expenditure in the Republic of Croatia is 11% of GDP at the level of the average in the members of the European Union, Slovenia, for example, has 11.7. The Republic of Croatia has a very low share of pensions on average, constantly moving around 40%. Compared to Croatia, it is interesting that Slovenia has an average higher salary of 26% and pensions even by 91%. Hungary has lower salaries by 49% and higher pensions by 13%. These partnerships with neighbouring countries show that the evaluation of past work in Croatia is below the dignity of generations and generations of pensioners who built the state between the two wars, had low wages and lived modestly and built a medium-developed industrial state from a poor agricultural country. In December 2011, the average pension according to the ZOM was 2 thousand 108 kuna, which was the share in the average salary of 39.81% and in December 2013 was 2 thousand 266 or 40.79% of the average salary. And this increase is the result of the pension adjustment of 2.26% in 2013 and a smaller number of pensioners due to the OIB of pensioners with lower pensions. One of the major problems with the pension system is the number of people with disabilities who have been significantly slowed down in the last 4 years. In the first years of the 2008 and 2009 crisis, the real stampede was to go into disability pension. One year after 13 thousand pensioners and after the discovery of Dr Rubale's affair and the purchase of pensions, the number of disability pensions decreased five times and amounted to only 2706 in 2013. And here I have to mention one anomaly of the disability pension law with the lowest average duration of 23 years are the most favourable of all types of pensions per year, and also from the users of temporary pensions who had the longest period of 35.5 years and the lowest amount of pension per year. Compared to 2012 in 2013, total pension expenditure increased by 872 million due to pension coordination of 2.4%. The biggest expenditure growth was recorded in the State budget fee for the second pillar by 14% and in the add-on of 4 to 27% for 13%. There is a certain injustice in another type of pension, which is family pensions. Every fifth pensioner and more than 90% of them are that women are in a family pension that is on average 1894 kuna. Although in the Republic of Croatia a little bit everything is in line with the European Union directives, the European Union is not involved in this problem. Everything is somewhat good as a married couple receives at least two pensions, the problem is when one partner dies and stays on one miserable pension. In Germany, the surviving partner maintains his pension and receives up to 60% of the deceased partner's pension. Rightly, family pensioners ask themselves whether there is a crisis when this justice will come to the Republic of Croatia, even if it is a small percentage because it is 227 thousand or 19% of pensioners who are hard to survive from an average of 1927 kuna. This report shows how much the Institute has improved communication with pensioners and insurance companies and how justified it has been to establish a user info centre, with a range of opportunities for access to current information via info telephone, home website and written and electronic means. Thus, the Institute’s website visited about a million and 961 thousand or 28% more compared to 2012. About 7.7 million pages or 20% more have been reviewed. In 2013, the password for access to user information requested 106 000 or 49% higher than in 2012. These sites were mainly used by pensioners who were able to verify their internship and salary and simply obtain an informative calculation of their future pension. They can personally commend the efforts and all the results of the staff of the Institute, and especially those which produce statistical information that comes out quarterly and provide very detailed information on both insurance and pensioners. The purpose of the pension system is the economic and social security of pensioners, and the objective of each pension reform provides adequate pension income and gives long-term sustainability of the pension system. The biggest problem is how to achieve this balance between purpose and goal. Surely one thing is that stabilising the pension system will contribute to everything we all know, and we want it to happen as soon as possible: more employees and more contributions paid, as a consequence of investments, new production, growth of the economy and GDP, but that still seems a long way to go today. So if we were to hire and all of these 313 000 ratios would be significantly improved but not so much more, it would come to 1:1,44. It's somewhere on the level of '99. A year. These wishes we have would at least contribute slightly to achieving the goals of all pensioners, which are better pensions worth living in a third age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96123	On behalf of the HDSSB club, colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96124	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Director with an associate. I won't be as extensive and as long as my predecessors, they actually said everything and I don't think there's much reason not to be in the evaluation of this kind of favor in assessing the report of the one you submitted to us, so the report on the work and business of the Croatian Institute, not the fund as Mr. Hrelja says for retirement insurance for 2013. First of all, I would notice or commend that this report on almost 90 pages is written with an eight, and it seems to me that without glasses, it's hard to read it, but it's very much, so that it's written with 12 pages would be 150 pages, but it's so well done that it's so well done that anyone curious can get into every single part of this report, and it's also the work of HZMO. In that statistical range, I found some data, and some of them I didn't find, so I'm going to ask Mr. Director to explain to us what happened. In fact, you know that every year when I report to HZMO on different sites, I have observed a figure or amount of kuna of approximately 100 or over 100 million to pay off non-retired pensions. Now I kept looking, I kept looking, and I couldn't find that number. I know that litigation is being conducted or that non-judicial settlements are being attempted for those who receive non-retired pensions in order to return what does not belong to them or sue the court. So I wonder if this is the consequence that there are no figures in this report, so there are no more non-retirement pensions, no more than 100 million. That the Justice Service of the Peace Institute managed to get the maximum amount to the finish line or to clean it up, or that it was a provision requiring all those receiving pensions and abroad to bring or show to the OIB, that it also produced a certain result because we know that there were around 150 000, and that about 12 or 13 thousand were not obtained by the OIB. In fact, they're either off or not in the Pension Insurance Office system, which means there's actually no pension if there's no OIB. Now here's what might be good for you to explain it to us after me, which is why, therefore, the success of the Legal Service or this OIB of Mr. Shucker, we must commend him for introducing it, which may have produced this effect. Since he's throwing I'll say it like this. The report shows that the number of persons employed by the Pension Insurance Office is reduced compared to 2012, so from 3009 to 2950 approximately, which is about 2% So, about 60 employees are less, and that the job that was done is actually large and that it is in some way larger than before. What's sad again from year to year we repeat it's the ratio of the number of pensioners to the number of employees, or if we say vice versa, then this came to 1,18 employees, I'm talking about employees or about a million and 400 thousand to one or a million and 200 more and a few thousand not to go into small numbers now. But here. Someone here mentioned in the debate that Dr. Rubale, who we know, therefore directly mentioned the name and this case, which in the public too, has taken up a lot of space in the media, has also contributed to a reduction in the number of disability pensions. No, the number of fake disability pensions has been reduced and those who have made such pensions in this way and thus do not actually belong to them. So, even though I think maybe there's room and maybe more Dr. Rubala is not the only doctor or anyone else in the hiding chain and which is as Zagorci would say, secretly, and that there may be more. It was also said that unfortunately, it seems to me that in Croatia it was just one illusion or some hope that after marriage mates living in retirement to say marriage and one of them leaving this world that the other enjoyed at least 60% of his pension, which would clearly improve the blood count, i.e. the monetary situation and the financial situation of the remaining partner in this. I have, on several occasions here from this pay phone in the Croatian Parliament, appealed to them that at least let me say, what we can determine exactly and that is a television subscription, that is, a fee of 80 kuna when both live decreases or half for at least 40 kunas when one of them dies which would be a good gesture to this particular situation where two pensioners live. One has two and a half, one and a half kuna or I don't know what, and when one dies, it's less income. There's no addition to the other person who died, but perhaps here we could at least show one will or initial will. Clearly, it is not the responsibility of the Pension Insurance Institute, but the overall government and state could influence at least in the television subscription, so half the television subscription. But this is one of these, my idea and the proposal that I make here sometimes mainly when the director of Croatian television, the director-in-chief here, but there is none of it by the director of Croatian television. I wouldn't repeat everything that's been reported in this report, it's really very extensive, so statistical material and data. The average age, number of pensioners per age, etc. can be seen here. What someone noticed was that 77% of female persons are employed in the pension insurance structure. Now, we don't have those here who always complain about it, and there's no one who would say as men, so we're being discriminated against about it. This is a bit of a joke. So, 77% of women's sex workers are employed at the Pension Insurance Office, which is probably big. I don't mind understanding myself even though I'm a man, they say, but when we have a debate of that kind, then we'll remember this information about pension insurance, or pension services that have 77% of women, so I'll say, well let's talk about equality and in that, if we have to, in the number of male employees at the Pension Insurance Office. That's what I noticed in the material, and here's these non-retirement pensions, maybe the principal will explain it to me. Anyway, I'm glad that this number no longer appears in this annual statistical report, and so far it's been if we take it since '92, '93. when the Croatian state was created before, but when it was set up this institution then it would per 100 million kuna for 20 years it is 2 billion kuna. And Lalovac now raises 3 billion kuna loans. If we had 100 million each year and saved, we'd have 2 billion kunas now, but they're gone. That's why I'm curious about how it's settled, and I'll be too pleased if that's really settled and that's the explanation. And so, the HDSSB club will support this exhaustive report that seems realistic to me without saying any mistakes, because there's nothing to read that would be contrary to the HDSSB's thinking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96125	Thank you. On behalf of HNS representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96126	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President, Your Honor. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, I would like to say immediately that we will support this report and, of course, join in the name of the club to all who have said that the report is indeed very high-quality, well-structured. And it should always be repeated that these are examples of how reports are done regardless of whether it's something that tends to say 36 billion and 594 million kunas that refer to here at this point more than a million and 190 thousand citizens. Each report must be structured in one such way as to be delivered in the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the HNS Club, I would like to point out essentially two, three facts that read from this report. So, of course, rationalisation, which reduces expenditure, which through the reduction of employees essentially shows the efficiency not only of rationalisation in the approach of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. And also what is the political message of this coalition that can be read from this report, which is that in 2013 pensions are harmonised by 2.26%. Also, the average pension was made under the Retirement Insurance Act for December 2013 reduced by taxes and taxes of 2226.29 kuna and in 2012, it was 2184, that the average pension rate of the average net salary was 40.79% compared to 2012 when it was 39.81 which means increase. That the average age pension was 2523.38 kuna compared to 2391 kuna in 2012 and that was essentially a share in the average net salary of 45.42% and in 2012 was 39.81%. And here's another piece of information, and the relationship between the user and the insurance company remained the same. The political message is that this coalition is what it has promised and implements, and that is that a standard that can take into account the conditions, given the deficit, maintains and adheres to both the law and the obligations and commitments undertaken, is what is the same political message. And what needs to be repeated, of course, is that of 36 billion and 528 million 489 thousand 405 kuna contributions are 52% and 19 billion and 281 million, respectively. 17 billion and 247 million 441 thousand 791 kuna goes from the budget, right? This includes, of course, national pension obligations under specific rules, favourable conditions, etc. But the real problem that we have heard in the name of clubs, other clubs in this Croatian Parliament, is the problem that this is an amount greater than the deficit. And the problem that we have with a large number of unemployed people better put in place a working-active population that doesn't work is the key problem where we are at the bottom of the EU, is the problem which is why we essentially have to isolate this much from the budget because there is no one and there is no way that it can be more high-quality. Surely one part of the needs and opportunities that pensioners have younger, younger ones I hold for all those over 65 years holding that if 65 years of what is going on regularly is the possibility of their involvement in the work by keeping their pension. We also have a lot in the following year to withdraw funds, about 500 million kuna from European funds and 500 million from the Republic of Croatia's employment budget under 30 years. But surely the government should also look at the fact that very much experience, very much knowledge, very much energy, can also say youth and Elena embedded older age but also pensioners but not those over 65 years can be quality and stimulatingly exploited and only their inclusion and release from certain giving through their work further essentially creates a certain and added value and contributions to quality and development. Because how much we desire and intend to involve young experts in the work as much as possible, mentoring and that creation and knowledge and will in the first place for the work of people who have been retired often and forced since the 1990s is stimulating something that this country needs to take advantage of. Because every knowledge of every person is extremely valuable and every knowledge contributes not only to the satisfaction of that person to be part of something that is created, a part of society, that it is significant and valuable in that sense, which is both creation and what it can give to this country but also in terms of general progress. Finally, we support this report with these few notes, suggestions and needs because it is very youngly retired of our citizens and citizens and their knowledge is not exhausted and their need and desire is not used up enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96127	We're moving on to an individual debate. A colleague of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96128	Honored vice president, respected director with associate, colleague and colleague. I don't know the coincidence or not, but you gave us Mr. Director on your 92nd birthday a report with no back page exactly 92 pages with contributions. You should have written that, but in any case, I am taking the opportunity to congratulate the 92nd birthday of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, which is often forgotten that this institution or its predecessors have built a lot of things that generations in this country enjoy that may have failed, but it certainly has achieved certain functions in a certain time. Let us remember that this institution built both health homes and retirement homes and that it borrowed money from the economy at a time when there were 6 insurance companies on one pensioner and that in fact only the last 20 years the expenditures were higher than the former ministers' incomes, that the last 20 years the expenditures of this institution were higher than the revenues, and all those previous 72 years were higher revenues than expenditure. Therefore, it is certain that the institution we are talking about today, and we are talking about a report on the work of a public institution, not a state institution, but a public institution of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, whose real owners are insurance companies, because forgive both your and my salary contribution is my gross salary, and the Institute has been built up and operated from these contributions, let us not forget it, regardless of who manages the property of its own office, whether it is in the State Office for the Management of State Property, but it is that simple. So we need to talk with great care about a lively old man, but to be lively you can also see from the report not only about the sustainability of the system, because the sustainability of the pension system here is described on page 14 here. And nobody really looked back on the state of human potential, about all that's going on with the information plan, or the availability of citizens, nobody said what's the difference between HZMO and pension funds? In the pension funds of the second pillar, people work with money, and in HZMO, 3,000 people work with people and calculates and explains their rights, includes, excludes them from the world of work, etc. etc. Okay, well, you'll get a chance, so we'll replicate ourselves freely, it's no problem. So, I mean, it's been working with people here, and that's why I say with everything the principal said that they did successfully, and they did during all these years, especially in the past year, because in a very short time they had to apply the whole system to the new Pension Insurance Act, so he's had a lot of changes. Then in some ways, I am not satisfied with the fact that unlike other public enterprises and institutions where they remained quite the same rights for employees, I am not satisfied that the employees of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office are paid less, it is not fair. If it were a trend and it were the same for everything in Croatia, okay, I would agree, but I'm sure they didn't all do it. Well, good for you, once again, congratulations to all the employees at work who have done it, but it's not very fair to them. I thank you for one more thing, namely, the HSU Club in the debate during this year in its 2012 report discussion asked the Croatian Institute for Pensions Report on the state of the office and branch office in the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, which is all over Croatia. Every small larger municipality, i.e. every serious city in the centre of the county, has the offices of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. We see a terrible trend in the decline of investment investments and maintenance since 2007 when 30 million kunas were released annually we came from the poor, I would say, 2.5 million kunas in investment investment and maintenance. Look, we have a case that burns the documentation in those headquarters of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute because there is no fire alarm, there are papers, that's the case that happened in Pula, but it's not a lonely case, there's a lot more to it. So, you're asked by the Croatian Pension Insurance Office to run the game as fast as possible at 100 meters and put more lead weights on his feet, that's not how it works. Come on, I am pleased that the 2015 budget is at least twice as much as this year, but it is terribly insufficient to ensure the normal work of employees at the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and that people who go to offices in all cities, municipalities, counties of the Croatian Pensions Institute would have accessibility. We see in this report that we have received thanks to you that a large number of exposures are not available for people with disabilities, that simple working conditions do not match what would be normal for doing this job. So, what I can do, we'll certainly stand for it now and in the future that this work is done in a better way, but just as it is now not good. Of course, you don't decide. Funds shall be provided for those purposes in the state budget. I am sure that if it were the management of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office by those who contribute to the payments, that they could do much better to protect what they built, but this is how they all say they're big, they'll do it somehow and that's how it is, but I'm sure those people can't hold out for many years working that way. I won't be long, but I have one more thing to say. 1% of pension expenditure is the cost of 3,000 employees of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. It's somewhere between 10 and 11 thousand kuna per employee per month, gross. Have you ever asked your dear colleagues and colleagues how much pension funds together take their fines, their average of what the state pays them 5 billion a year and what they go 60 billion a year? That's also close to 300 million kuna. How many employees? 200 at the most. Put it on, compare those two things. Compare these two things and then you can only take off your hat to these people for what they do, for how much money and how much contact they have with the citizens, so we can only be grateful and congratulated to the employees of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute on one sacrifice and on one professional relationship with insurance and pensioners. Of course, I, as well as the HSU Club, will certainly vote in favour of this report and support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96129	Thank you very much. Comrade Ivan Shuker, you have the honor of finishing, be the last in this fall session.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96130	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Director. My colleagues and colleagues, so there's a lot of us left for one topic that's very important. Before I go to this part of the debate, then I would just tell my colleagues to Hrelja that before 90th is a famous positive business, I remember even though I did a relatively little work in that time of blue, green and red books when the money was lax and then they went..., they were raising their contributions, so filled up the tub. But it doesn't matter. So, the report is technically very correctly made and in fact who will look at it can read everything out of it that it needs. I've still got one more plate left, and we're talking about it all the time. I'll talk about it later. However, I answered the debate over two things. I put one in line with my colleague Linic, but the other one, which I want to discuss because I don't think this report should just go away without keeping track of what's actually the biggest problem, and that's a table on page 14 and average pensions. 840 thousand Croatian pensioners have pensions below 3000 kuna. 290,000 pensioners have pensions below 1,500 kuna. And of these 290 are collected and certain groups that, for purely justified reasons, have such pensions, are primarily our people who spent most of their working life in Western European countries and have had a very short period of employment in the Republic of Croatia, therefore they have a pension of several hundred kunas and should not be seen. This is also a big problem for you, and these are Croatian farmers who have a very low average internship and from this basis have a very high pension and those about which children do not take care have been brought into an extremely difficult situation. In view of the difficult situation in agriculture, the other side is no longer able to work physically, so this is the same group that we should talk about when we talk about this report. However, colleagues and colleagues are most vulnerable to the fact that more than 5,000 kunas in Croatia if we eliminate that table I will talk about later, there are only 37,000 pensioners in the Republic of Croatia, and over 6 thousand kunas have only 13 thousand. And that's our picture, that's our reality and that's our problem and I think we talk about this report,...respect for all the colleagues who spoke before, not mentioning this data is disrespect to these people. Those people who basically built everything we have today. Each in its different period and not the culprits that in the past, let's say 25 years the average salary moved from several hundred kunas and came to today's 5 grand and some more kuna. And remember, in the '90s, the minimum basis for the pension payment for craftsmen was 800 kuna, many were generally applying for it, and it was a minimum base, so it was somehow a minimum salary. And so, this table to all of us who are dealing with any social work should simply open our eyes and look at it like this because unfortunately it is about a million and 200 thousand of our fellow citizens who have earned this pension through honest work, they have what is, most tragically, simply in the coming years there is no possibility that this pension will be bigger and later I will return to this second part of the story... but I just want to say something. These data according to these pensions under special regulations, all these people, regardless of whether they are members,... of course liberating fights, are members of the Croatian Army in II. In the world war, until a member of the Homeland War defenders, they all had a certain number of years of internships before they retired. Is it 5, 10, 15, 20, but they all made one part of their working life into retirement status and they cannot be said to receive a pension exclusively as a consequence of some special law. The amount of that pension is determined, the minimum amount based on some specific laws, and so I'm saying, maybe it would be good, I don't know if it's possible once we can make some sort of accompanying material what the average working time is, so that's what was being paid in contributions to all these categories and just once we get out of the whole story. Because look, maybe this isn't going to be popular right now and maybe someone will attack me for what to say, and even our fellow parliamentary representatives and members of the government, the Constitutional Court, the HZU, before they went to... pensions by special status worked somewhere, paid off and most of these people made a relatively good living because they were more or less highly educated, so maybe it's a good announcement. And why did I say I'd go back to this... when I was saying that 840 thousand pensioners were receiving a pension under 3,000 kuna? It's this second pillar of retirement. Maybe it's not the subject of this, but we're gonna say so by consensus in '99. They made a decision on pension reform in the Republic of Croatia, and later the law also experienced various procedures because people went into different retirement times and had different pensions, but what unfortunately did not happen because of the state of the budget, which is, it was simply not respected when the Retirement System Reform Act was adopted, which is that by 2006, the payment in the second pillar of the pension must be at least 8%. For example, in today’s day, it had to be by some projections of 10%, which means that in today’s times it would be around 12 billion kunas a year to be paid into the second pillar of retirement. Now, with this 5% unfortunately when someone is behind us for 15 or 20 years looking at the same reports, then when they combine what is obtained from this which will be paid from the Croatian Pension Insurance Office plus what will be paid out of individual savings, therefore their own payments in the second pillar of retirement will, unfortunately, speak the same about very low pensions and I'm afraid that some government in some future times will have to reach for some supplemental pension because unfortunately, the relationship of those who, if we put on today's level, who will have a pension below today's 3,000 kuna will be far more than there are now. Exactly because of these 5,000. The second thing, when I said over the past 14 years, so that was, let me say 7 years of the coalition government and 8 years of HDZ, two of the perhaps most important projects that had the right intention of costing 100 billion kuna, the second pillar of pension and highway. No interest highways cost 100 billion kuna. Also when we take what we owe instead of what we pay in retirement it could come into the budget,... interest, we can... about the amount of about 120, 130 billion kuna. However, as it is unfortunately said about highways today, some of them need to be monetized or rented, so the question is what will be tomorrow with pensions from the second pillar of pension and whatever someone gets 200 or 300 million to manage these funds, and we have to go back to 2009 and 2010, so most of the money has been invested in government bonds because in 2009 in the tension of economic and financial crisis, these voluntary pension funds have lost about a billion and a half million because of investments that simply result from the economic crisis have been lost because look, every such investment is essentially very risky because if you do not invest in the securities of the state, everything else is risky and the contribution of that fund can be as it is. So let me get this straight. I cannot agree that the employment relationship in Croatia is 1.18.1. Two hundred and fifty thousand people get paid from the state budget. Another 15 thousand gets from local self-government units and when we take public companies that are directly connected to the budgets, that's almost 280 to 300 thousand people to you. And when out of a million and 340 thousand employees you turn down those 300 thousand people then we come to a really real sector that creates a new value and pays into retirement, then we get that the ratio of such really employees and those who receive a pension is somewhere 1 to, actually 0.80:1. Because look, what we pay out of our pension contributions from the budget, we practically pay out of the same cash register so that something can be paid off and given to the pensioners. So, and maybe that's the structural problem that we need to talk about in such a simple way for the simple reason that our eyes are opened, actually, if I can just do one more sentence, please, Madam Vice President, to open our eyes, in fact... it's our way to solve this problem. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96131	Silvano Hrelja, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96132	Dear fellow Shuker, I am extremely grateful to you for this last sentence of how you pay your contribution in the same pocket or in the same treasury because you have articulated the logic of the treasure here and it is actually one truth that we all have to imagine together. What I think is worth our analysis is these 8,000 pensioners under 2,000 kuna, that's very dramatic, very worrying, but it's not true. You said part of it is that there are 180,000 proportionate pensions here that, apart from the pensions that this statistical indicator has, have some other pension. Of course, still those who have no obligation to tax their pension in Croatia, e.g. pensions from Germany do not appear to be income even though I should consider that income and for other social rights. The other thing you said about the 1999 consensus, look, I think it was a consensus of political entities, but it wasn't a consensus of social partners, and whatever it was, that's when we started with the current value of pension 36.15 kuna, we could start with 42 kuna because it was exclusively a political decision. Then this whole story would be something else and much harder to look at, but maybe in the meantime we'd be more responsible so we wouldn't create so many pensioners, maybe we'd keep jobs through these, all these years of politics. And one more thing to say, allow the vice presidents, yes, in 1999 we talked about the gradual increase in the separation by the second pillar, but we also talked about 2% of the increase in real salary per year, and there was that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96133	Comrade Shuker, I didn't see, do you want to answer? Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96134	Thank you very much. It's different thinking at a good age and different in a bad age. You remember a signed contract with civil servants and cashiers on salary growth every year 6%. When you have economic growth 5% you can do that. Also remember that these years of pensions practically increased 4.5% a year, given the indexation, so they were good years, and that was so, but the thing is when I was talking about this same pocket that wages without material costs costing the state budget 30 billion, 36.5 billion cost pensions. Somewhere around 5 billion of these salaries are pension contributions. So, you write it down on the one hand here about the cost so you book it in revenue, and then you re-write it in cost, and in principle it's not that, but if we want to solve the problem of these 17.5 billion deficits then we have to talk about this ratio of 0.85:1. Because when that 0,85 ratio rises, then this one becomes neutral in the state budget, then the problem of pensions will be different even though the consequences of war, loss only in Sisak and Vukovar, 50,000 jobs is something that has led us to this kind of relationship, and that's the key problem. If Croatia had a million and 750 thousand employees, then it would not have discussed these problems at all at all, but definitely this is one of the perhaps key structural problems of public finances in the Republic of Croatia and should simply be seen in such a way without any political undertone because we all agree that they have small pensions, then let us not speak the same way when the budget has to be allocated so much... is that it is because you see that no government can change that. It can't change until there's a bigger number. And as for the second pillar of retirement, I have an opinion about him and my position. That's what I said in the second month of 2009, when the economic crisis began, that those 40 billion should only be taken into the state budget, so I was crucified by those who take 300 million a year and manage something without any risk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96135	And the final word of the Director of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, Mr. Srecko Vukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96136	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here, I am truly honored that this year's debate, this year's session of the Parliament, has been concluded with one such topic which is of particular social interest, not only by your financial weight but really by people, by the users of pensions, as well as by the insurance companies who will one day be retired and that it really deserves that perhaps as sugar at the end this debate and this report comes before you and on behalf of all the employees of the Institute I thank you for all the praises that have been given. I would say that they were actually unanimous and not in the report itself, but also in the work of the Bureau, which means the work of his employees because there would be no such report or results from this work report that not the employees who really worked for a smaller salary would be much, much more. If such institutions were more truly, that such companies in Croatia are more, I think that at this point and this financial crisis for us would be less and less expensive, but that it should be properly evaluated by employees, both through their salaries and through investments in non-financial assets, of course, and that, I hope that through the coming years, we will in some better situation and achieve it. A few may answer some questions or perhaps some kind of remark. As regards the children's allowance, I would like to clarify it here, so in 2013 it is not an integral part of these 36 billion in 2014, it is special and it has been managed and managed this year on the Social Policy and Youth Ministry, and the Pension Insurance Institute is therefore carrying out the process of exercising the right to pay for children and payments, but the funds have been dragged through the reach of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth. In 2015, the budget you accepted two to three weeks ago is different, now these funds are, a week ago, now these funds are also on the terms of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office within the head of the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, so they will indeed be together in 2015 with the pension funds. But then, separately, you'll see exactly how much retirement goes, and how much for the child's allowance. As far as insurance relations are concerned, I'd like to, so it was really on 31.12. 26 thousand people less due to suspended pensions, due to the OIB, but there were 19 thousand insurance companies less because in September 2013, under quotes, but also literally, as you will, cleaned our insurance base, we simply combed it out and kicked out all those companies that were open and some of the employees who ran without paying contributions together with the trade court and other institutions in Croatia, the tax administration, we reduced that number by 19 thousand, so not artificially, but 19 thousand less those we ran as insurance workers in the previous years, and de facto they weren't insurance. As far as non-performing payments are concerned, I would be delighted if they were gone at all, they are not only the problem of the Croatian Pension Insurance and Croatian Institute, they are the problem of both Japan and Germany and in all the talks I have had with the directors of pension institutions mostly European countries, of course, everyone has the problem. With us, he's significantly, significantly smaller a few years back. In 2011, a regulation was passed which was... significantly so, sometimes pensions were suspended or belonged until the day someone died and then automatically, given that it was very short time to stop that payment, that first payment, there was a significant non-payment. The regulation has been amended and now the pension belongs to the end of the month if someone has died and thus the amount of non-refundable payments on that basis is significantly reduced. Of course this OIB has also achieved very good results, so by amending the law in 2013 and by pre-connecting the OIB into the RH system, we no longer need a month, two, three to let us know that someone died. So, through the OIB system, we're practically in real time for 2 to 3 days we know someone died, retirement is suspended, the bank is reported, and this non-refundable payment or pension outflow is significantly reduced. The data is therefore from 46 thousand 777 pensions abroad that have been suspended due to the lack of OIB, the number is now reduced, significantly reduced, so to 2600, but we still estimate that the problem is especially with BiH, and I believe that through the data exchange agreement and on the other hand we are ready to get an answer, and we are willing to reduce the outflow of funds and make it easier for us not to get back months until we get a tip that someone in another country died, it is very difficult then from that other country to seek and obtain, it is easy to look for, but it is difficult to get back those funds. We're a lively old man, thanks for that syntagma. We're really lively, very lively, we didn't burn down the paperwork on good luck and happiness of the pensioners, it was two rooms in Pula, the esteemed representative of the Hrelja talked about it. I believe that this will not happen again and certainly that the investment in the fire report is something within these investments in non-financial assets, which we must invest in in the next period. Dear Representative Shuker has proposed something that seems to me or I'm sure we'll be able to do after we've made the separation, so this project I've been talking about, after which we will have precisely defined what funds in special pensions are based on paid contributions and insurance internships, which are indeed a special internship, a speciality according to a specific regulation, and then, not only through the tables and through the report, but will also be seen in the budget for the next and this one, but in 2015, and all the following years, much more precisely than it is now. That's it. Of course, in the end, I agree with all of you, in fact, it seems to me, and we all agree that retirement policy is something that is really about all of us and those who are now retired and us who are going to be retired and it is actually a long-term matter, a long-term strategic matter, and we all have to, and the government and the Pension Service that has experts who can contribute to this, as well as this respected House, high, so to contribute to one long-term strategy, a stable strategy that will be better for the pensioners tomorrow, so during some period than for these very small pensioners who live today from that pension. Indeed, the system is not easy because on the one hand the state is tense, the budget is too tense to cover the current expenditure, and with these current expenditures our pensioners barely live in the most part of it. Thank you again very much and very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96137	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report tomorrow. My colleagues and colleagues, we'll be back tomorrow at 9.30. We'll vote on the points discussed. Thank you very much. Goodbye. Session interrupted at 1800 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-11-0.u96138	Report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2013. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership as the home working body of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: - A report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2013. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 115 votes, we have adopted the proposed conclusion. Opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system on the basis of a request for an opinion on the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of Representative Boris Blažekovic. I ask the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the respected Pejo Grbin to introduce us to the opinion of the Committee.
