ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76669	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Therefore, the Law implementing Regulation No 528/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the making available on the market and use of biocidal products, I am wrong to say, I am sorry, the Law on General Application Matters in order to abolish the State Inspectorate in order to comply with the provisions of the Law establishing and deliriousness of the Ministry and other central authorities of the State Administration. The Ministry of Health has carried out an analysis of the existing legislation in which the legislative provisions mention the jurisdiction of the State Inspectorate and harmonised the existing to the newly established division of jurisdiction. So, here it's done that simply by abolishing the State Inspectorate is moving into the area of other jurisdiction, so I suggest that this law be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76670	Thank you, too. Do the representatives of the working bodies of the Board of the Croatian Parliament wish to present reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the Croatian Democratic Community Club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76671	Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues, general use items are materials and objects that come in direct contact with food and shifts broad consumption. Materials and articles that come into direct contact with food are materials of which are made objects of general use that come in direct contact with food, and the items that come are dishes, accessories, equipment, devices, packaging used in food business. A shifts the wide consumption of dishes, accessories, equipment, cosmetic products, packaging for general use items, toys, including products intended for infants and children under the age of three to facilitate feeding, sucking, calming and sleeping, and products for adult entertainment, cosmetic products, cosmetics with special purpose and all. So here's why I point out a pretty wide area because I keep it important even though the content of this law is very short, here's as we've heard from the reasoning, but I'm saying for reasons to stress the importance of the subject of general application, the importance because we see how wide the area is covered, covered. So, the packaging and the food, which we've talked about countless times in this House of Commons. Of course, it is necessary to keep this quality under control and under control with a quality legal framework, and that is why the 2006 legal framework was there. It's a common-use transfer law, isn't it? It is then 2013, therefore, with a view to further harmonising with European Union legislation and with a view to protecting health and environmental protection. She's always the same, so I don't have to repeat myself. And now it's coming, so there's a box one there's a quality one. Now it comes under these circumstances, there is a change, therefore because of what Mr. Deputy Minister said because of the need to comply with the new provisions of the Law on Design and the detour of the ministries and other central authorities of the state administration. And as it is known to have abolished the inspectorate and with this change he took over, so he took over their business, the State Inspectorate, his affairs were taken over by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Labour, the pension system, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Tourism in the framework of his work cycle. So what's going on? It happens that and one space has taken over from the inspectorate who did his job they have taken over and now if one of the inspectors in reality discovers an irregularity he means he must again inform the Ministry of Health and this European Commission. What's going on? There's one thing going on, let's say wandering, which is dangerous given the space it's about. It's about food, about children, about babies, about what we've pointed out a lot of times how important it is. So there's a dangerous situation going on and it says it's coming, it's doing this change to avoid the legal void simply. Well, it's already been empty for three months as long as, imagine what could have happened within three months that you simply remember a few years ago what happened to that melanin with the baby toys, which could have happened in that time with the kids. We often stress the need for care for children, health, health management, at that time a hundred miracles could have happened. We always react afterwards. So, I would like to warn you, the Croatian Democratic Community club will not support, so these changes will not, for the reason that they had to react hastily if they had already gone, which we did not approve, and in that time everything and everything could have happened. The other thing is the central one, so the state administration, in any case the functioning of me is disrupted. And the third thing, I'm asking how long it's gonna take, how long will this coordination take? It's taking too long not to ask about the part where they say who's going to pay for the damage to those citizens who don't get along under these circumstances. Here are the problems that we want to warn about because it's a serious matter, about general use items that have a broad function. And I don't think this void should have happened. It's an important area, and it's important, and it should have been taken into account. And of course with the aim of protecting the health of citizens, protecting the environment, what we have talked about countless times in this House of Commons. The Croatian Democratic Community club will not support these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76672	Thank you too, dear colleague. We have a replica of the respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76673	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Milinkovic, I saw, I thought someone was still in front of me, I could have said it in my debate, but here's when I answered. You only asked that sentence when you asked how long this alignment would take. So long as someone remembers not to put everything back together, they'll get along. I mean, it's inconclusive. There will probably be another government, so the other government will say back to the State Inspectorate from all ministries.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76674	There's no response to the replica. Then I ask the respected representative, Branko Vuksic, to present his club's position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76675	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, Honored colleagues and colleagues. Very briefly, we actually have a set of similar laws where we try to bring the laws that are necessary from the moment the State Inspectorate was abolished. However, we have already discussed this several times, we have discussed whether, whether or not the State Inspectorate should be abolished. Since it has already been abolished and since we are already doing this, we need to warn and that is why we are on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club and for which I have answered. By moving from the State Inspectorate to the ministry, a void occurred not only in that the inspectors don't act the way they should, because if you call the departments and ask the central office to reunite you with the inspectors of many ministries, they don't know they have inspectors yet. The other thing that is, inspectors who went from the State Inspectorate to the ministries didn't get a solution to redistributing some of them got and didn't get all of them. So those who should worry about the functioning of the system do not have valid labour contracts. And some of these inspectors should check that workers have valid labour contracts. So the inspector who's in violation himself because the state didn't provide him with all the working conditions he should follow the laws and the state itself doesn't respect the laws. It's nonsens. And how are we in the Croatian Parliament to advocate the rule of law when we do not respect ourselves and when the State Inspectorate was abolished the same day should have passed all the laws and adopted those laws and there would be no air space. This is how it all turns out to be unserious. What Mr. Milinkovic was saying is this is one area where inspectors have a really wide range of work. We understand all these controls quite optionally, but when inspectors start talking about inspectors or inspectors, only when there's an accident, when it's discovered that there's goods in stores that aren't controlled and that are dangerous to the health and life of children, and that's when you remember that we often knew that, in the media, such cases occurred and only then did we listen to the inspector's reports. How many inspectors themselves operate and how much these products are controlled, from dishes, cosmetic products, products for children, packaging, we actually don't know the real situation. So I try again, I appeal to those who don't do their jobs, to provide inspectors with basic working conditions, and the basic condition for work is that they have valid labour contracts because it's not enough for inspectors to be redistributed into ministries without actually having a solution to redistribution and valid labour contracts. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76676	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivica Mandic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76677	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Branko, although you are already at the end of your debate and have touched part of the answer, what I wanted to replicate, that perhaps in this job, crossing the State Inspectorate towards the ministries is not as important an organization as the essence of whether the inspectorate is doing well or not. That the responsibility of the inspectorates is very, very important, it is certainly, in particular, that those goods that come from other markets, which do not come from the European Union, need special control on matters and certain preservatives and certain whites and certain uses, so that the inspectorate, if it wants to work, has a lot to do because there are great challenges.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76678	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76679	Dear fellow Mandic, when the State Inspectorate was abolished, I spoke on behalf of the club, and then I said that I don't know, some countries have State Inspectorates, some countries have organised inspection controls in the ministries and that we are not the apologists of the State Inspectorate who, in my opinion, did not work well. I agree with you the point is whether these inspectors are doing their job, controlling whether they are protecting citizens from the dangers they are threatened by, and I fully agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76680	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is up to the respected representative Boro Grubisic on behalf of the HDSSB club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76681	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. We're all here and we're all coming in and we're gonna come in clear contact with objects of general use because in our lives and work, we're nothing different than other people. The other day I bought a sofa coat, and in tiny letters about font 6 on a nylon bag it was written to open a package in gloves, so I wondered what the packaging was opening, which was only then in the substrate itself, in the fabric that was in that bag. When I opened that packaging, then I had something to feel, so I felt the smell, so I wouldn't say the smell. There's a good expression in Dalmatia, a sense of smell in formaldehyde first of all. Those who are medics know why they serve and what formaldehyde is. But in these items of general use there are a number of other means as said by the esteemed colleague Mandic and, above all, in some to say detergents and cosmetics, whites, preservatives in food, then in skin objects that are still chromium in the Republic of Croatia, and even those toxic metals, arsenics and even live. Now I'm talking about what we're dealing with, so what's listed here which are objects so the general public knows it, so dishes, accessories, cosmetics, packaging, so we can say clothes, toys, entertainment items, etc. What does this briefly reasoned law by the Deputy Minister say? It would therefore be said that it is one technical law where, in view of the termination of the work of the State Inspectorate of Jurisdiction, they move on to some others. And it's beautifully written and counted here, to which the inspectorates and the ministry are going to take over from the Ministry of Finance, Economy, Ministry of Labour and Pension System, Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Tourism in the framework of the work cycle, and immediately in the next sentence says so. In accordance with the Law on General Use Matters, where the competent inspectors, therefore, would find medically incorrect, i.e. non-compliant items from these ministries in carrying out controls on the production and placing on the market of general use items. So a contractual way was used if, which is not good because it means in this contractual way that much will be promoted, as it does today, because we can't carry out an inspection, regardless of how many inspectors we can't carry out inspection of all cases of general use on the market. They say that about 6% of the items of general use or for general use are managed to control in the Republic of Croatia that is statistically so. That's 94%, so it goes past any inspection and surveillance. The alignment with the legislation of the European Union that was said to have been here in 2006, so in 2013, and here in 2014 it looks a little bit like my former boss who said Boro we will one day return to that radio on the diodes or gramophone boards. Because this technique when it's scheduled, there's no more repairs or anything, and you know how to handle it. These younger generations know that from the first generation, but we're a little older now. Thus, the law that exists now here in 2013 changes in 2014 so it is not due to any harmonisation with EU legislation because the inspectorates in the European Union have been dealt with in two ways. There are in some countries of the state, and there are so divided by the ministries. So it's just a alignment with the Inspectorate Act that the State Inspectorate has stopped working on, with our law, not European law. And now jurisdiction is given to these inspections, which will say if they notice that there are non-compliant cases or medically invalid objects from the general application, immediately inform the Ministry of Health. So we take the environmental route to a ministry that is really competent and that is relevant for the assessment and quality, regularity and conformity of objects from the general application. So it's the Health Department's inspection. So we're going to take one environmental route through other inspections. Is that just as necessary, if this process is longer, if the tests are going to be conducted by a variety of inspectors, so it takes longer. It is clear that the Ministry of Health will also inform the European Union as soon as such items are used on the Croatian market. In view of these changes, and since we were in the debate on new inspections at the ministries, we were not in favour of the idea that, in order to stop the work of the State Inspectorate. It would be impossible for us to be in favour of such a legislative proposal now, because even then we were against the abolition of the State Inspectorate, and following our own decision not to accept a decision on the termination of the work of the State Inspectorate and the division of various ministries, we cannot be in favour of such a legal proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76682	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Josip Djakic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76683	Thank you very much. Comrade Boro, you said that the inspection supervision of the implementation of this law in the performance of production and marketing of articles of general use is carried out by sanitary inspectors. And I would agree to pass a law like this, but we haven't even provided enough inspectors to carry out that surveillance. I'll give you an example. Of the six possible inspectors in the district of Virovitica-Podravska, there are 0.5 of them and that 0.5 is on maternity leave. The assistance from Osijek County and Koprivnica is certainly not adequate. Care and care for the correctness and products as well as all other things that sanitary inspectors oversee is questionable. An epidemic of every kind. So we're passing laws, and we haven't even secured basic standards, i.e. People who will oversee the implementation of these laws. Law enforcement can certainly only be of professional, quality people, and no competition is called for because it is a ban on employment in the public service. And now each other's hair actually can't be applied, because there's no one to implement it. If your parents come from Osijek for help in our county, surely your space will remain uncovered and will not be able to adequately do their job. It is therefore necessary first of all to provide a sufficient number of inspection services, i.e. Inspectors themselves so they can cover the ground and enforce these laws, otherwise this is a dead letter on paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76684	Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76685	Thank you very much. I'll start at the end of your line. Namely, before someone comes to you from Bjelovar than from Osijek, and I am from Slavonski Brod, so I can't help you much to get one of the inspectors in Slavonski Brod to go to Virovitica, Pitomaca or I don't know which border crossing with Hungariansag, so the country of Hungary. But as for your own inspector, so you have 0.5. I don't know what you mean by 0.5 inspectors. But given the demographic impoverishment of the Republic of Croatia, it would be good to have not only an inspector but also a lot more on maternity leave in the Republic of Croatia people. I hope that the inspection and sanitary and other health departments will find a solution for your county since you put this out so publicly that I hope that in the Ministry of Health there will be a redistribution of staff and the Virovitica-Podravska County for your and general satisfaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76686	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party club in the Croatian Assembly, respected representative Sonja Köning.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76687	Thank you, well-respected President of our Parliament, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Especially from Mr. Shucker. [[Adversity President: Do not engage with these provocators.]] Here is a colleague and colleagues, we complement these proposed amendments to the law with only a few words and we at the HNS club support and highlight the importance for our life and health of the Law on General Use, because the objects of general use, or materials from which these items are made, are part of our daily life. We eat from them, drink from them, sleep between them, sit, stand and walk on them, live in houses and work in rooms made most of these materials. And most often we don't think about them, we take from a healthy for granted, and it's very important for human health that they are safe to use. This, among other things, concerns the laboratory of the General Use Department of the Ministry of Public Health of the Republic of Croatia which has a long tradition of over 50 years in the study but also in the study of the subject of general use. And I would therefore like to take this opportunity to commend the work of the employees and employees of that department who, under not ideal conditions, are concerned about the health regularity of the items we use daily. That's why I'd like to present a few sentences of their work as well. In general, the department shall monitor, study and assess the health regularity of the subject matter of general use in production and transport in the Republic of Croatia, as well as those of imports. It is examined, with all materials and finished products that come into contact with food, and packaging for objects of broad consumption. In the department there is also a very good cooperation with the universities of the University of Zagreb and international cooperation, and students of related universities are given the opportunity to carry out professional practice and professional training. In addition, the Laboratory of the General Application Department actively cooperates with European reference laboratories, provides scientific and professional assistance to various institutions in the Republic of Croatia and the work of the department includes scientific and research work resulting in the publication of many, many scientific papers. In my work, which I once again commend, the most highlights the need for greater security of our market and greater consumer protection that we believe will be ensured by them and this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76688	Thank you very much. Does the Government of the Republic of Croatia want a final word? And we have a replica? [[Intruder: Replica.]] Excuse me, yes, yes. I'm sorry, it wasn't intentional. Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76689	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, colleagues, König, I appreciate your commitment and your thinking about the Department of Public Health, and I agree entirely with that. I think their contribution is invaluable, that all these references you counted to stand, that they really showed up and proved they knew. I appreciate, of course, your commitment to health, for the sake of course, above all good health, but I can't understand that then you support these changes and changes that in some way this void, this legal void, so to say that it's simply possible for a disaster to occur in the application of the subject of general use. There's an extremely big problem, so it's simple in that time. So you can imagine what kind of incident one can make a miracle a great deal, so when you apply an object of some kind toy to children. So what happens, you remember a few years ago, that's what I want to warn you about. There's a problem and it doesn't agree with each other's colleagues respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76690	Replica's reply, the esteemed representative of Sonja König.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76691	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Milinkovic, I appreciate your agreement with my commendation to the Department of Public Health Laboratory, but I don't agree with you in this section that the inspectors are not working at this time because they haven't disappeared anywhere. It's not a void, they're doing their job, which, once again, I want to commend them for that job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76692	Thank you, too. The proposer's representative has no final word. I'm closing the debate. We will vote on the final draft of the law when the conditions for voting are met. Final proposal of the Act amending the Law on General Use Matters, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 644. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to point out that the adoption of this law requires most of the votes of the representatives in the Croatian Parliament, in accordance with Article 252. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, and I now find that most votes are 77 for, 10 votes against and 10 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending the Law on General Application Matters in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76695	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Therefore, in short and here the proposed amendments amend the provisions which mention the jurisdiction of the State Inspectorate and are aligned according to the newly created division, i.e. in the part of the conduct of official controls on the designation of genetically modified organisms, the responsibility shall be assumed by the Ministry of Agriculture or the Quality Inspection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76696	Thank you too, Deputy Minister of Health. Do the representatives of the working bodies want to present the report of the working bodies? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the HDZ Representatives' Club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Branko Kuti. Here's a colleague of the Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76697	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. I'll be as short as the deputy in the clarification, yeah. The proposal for a law amending the Law on genetically modified organisms is related to the initiative 2001/18 EC means changing the jurisdiction over the conduct of inspection and official controls in the section of the labelling of GMOs and products containing or consisting of GMOs at retail level. The jurisdiction to carry out these inspections shall be transferred from the suspended State Inspectorate to the inspection of the quality of food of the Ministry of Agriculture. The State Inspectorate suspended the work of 1st January of this year of the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Fraction of the Ministrys and other central authorities of the State Administration. Article 13 of those amendments and additions to the law stipulates that within 30 days of the entry into force of this Act, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will comply with the Internal Design Regulation of the Central Authorities of the State Administration which amend the structure or part-time operation. The government of the Republic of Croatia referred the 15th law to the parliamentary procedure in December to transfer jurisdiction from the state inspectorate to the ministry. They were adopted in this assembly on January 24th of this year. On the other hand, the Ministry of Agriculture announced on the official pages of the Ministry of Agriculture on 2 January this year that the Ministry of Agriculture is taking over the tasks of the State Inspectorate in its section of the 1st of January of this year and that citizens can refer their requests to the designated email address. What do I want to point out? So the Ministry of Agriculture took over the jurisdiction of conducting inspections before it was confirmed in this assembly, but if we go back to these two laws, which are obviously the Law on genetically modified organisms, they are obviously forgotten when this package of laws was discussed about a month and a half ago, which was passed on inspection and official controls from the State Inspectorate to the Ministry. So the necessity of their adoption is clear, but it should also be pointed out that there is a legal gap of nearly three months if someone has done these jobs in the meantime, meaning that he has violated the law. So he was working against the law. I also wish, not directly related to this law but as regards GMOs, the last meeting of the Committee on Agriculture discussed the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the cloning of cattle, pigs, sheep, goats and hooves. There was an initiative, this has nothing to do with the Ministry of Health but it has to do with the Ministry of Agriculture. We heard from Mrs. Spanish that an initiative was launched by the breeders of Istrian Bokarin cattle to allow cloning due to too few throats. However, it seems to me in the Morning List last Sunday that the statement was denied by the breeders themselves, which I would like to say, means that there is also a disagreement within the Ministry of Agriculture and I think it is a too dangerous topic for this game when it comes to cloning. We also have recent research that shows that this topic really deserves special attention, special attention, and let us not give ourselves the right to approach the problem lightly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76698	I thank you, too, Your Honor, and I can say that your olive oil and wine is beyond GMOs for sure. Replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76699	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I agree with your findings, but also with my colleague Boxti, I agree with your finding that it is evident that whoever proposed the abolition of the state inspectorate did not know what this state inspectorate was doing because it is not logical if you need to change 30 and some more laws that you did not send them to... the Parliament has changed that. So this is now a definitive confirmation of everything that's been going on since 1.1 on here that those who have abolished the state's inspectorate didn't know what that institution was doing, so, in fact, they were even hitting on a state-owned institution that did their job well. But fellow Box, there's a lot worse stuff. Apparently, they don't even know what the incentive means of hiring through the Employment Service is because apparently there's no money for 41 measures and they could be on the national side, I'm writing to you slowly because you're slowly reading, only the Parliament reads very quickly, but obviously on our agenda that we don't have anything to read.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76700	Replicate response, the esteemed representative of Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76701	Thank you. Well, fellow Shuker, there's a song that can be said directly on the subject, it was popular a few years ago. It seems to me that Mrs. O'Brovac has composed, I'm writing a letter, my ink is spilling. So it's obvious that there was no ink when these changes to the package of all these laws related to the state inspectorate were discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76702	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is up to the Independent Representatives Club, the Honorable Representative Damir Cain, the list of independents, all independent as far as I know by the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76703	Honorable gentlemen, MPs, Mr. President, Deputy Minister. Yeah, well, there's nothing to argue about here. We are all against the clarity of GMOs even though we will also admit to ourselves that unfortunately this GMO is present in Croatia. So we're all against it but he's present, it's simply a fact. We can ban it from it, GMOs on the other hand we know there, but we have to do everything we can to keep it out of Croatia. However, here I am also where Mr. Box went one step further and precisely in the Sunday morning list, the big headline, who wants to clone the boscarin? Our throats multiply without help and we don't have the money for the ones we have. I don't know, but I know she's brought panic among the breeders of that indigenous Istrian breed. I just want to mention that at the time before the tractors when the ox eagles land, in Istria we had about 30,000 which boscarin, which..., which is the ballina, savina,..., etc. I'm going to say all that one more time, not in any way. If it takes this pride of Istria, like all that was fair pride, bravely in those places slowly disappeared or disappeared, let them also disappear, but clone in no way we have the right. Twenty-five years ago it was numbered in Istria 103 cows and eight bulls, so boscarin, now it's about 1,300, maybe 1,500, and why would it be cloned? Personally, I believe that boscarin is on its way to being saved, and how it was saved, by offering it to restaurants and that individuals today have reason to grow it because they have this commercial interest. If they don't have a commercial interest, we won't even have a bottle. If it wasn't for that, I said we wouldn't have any. So, very briefly, not cloning, not to GMOs and I'm interested in what's alive, who's the one who started that cloning initiative? Were there any people in Istria today who deny it or was it, I don't know, some body at state level? All that matters when we talk about this subject is incentives. They set out for Dean Fattyuh's initiative, then parliamentary representative in '94. In the meantime, they melted, at the time the cow and calf were given up to 8000 kuna incentives, now the stimulation of 1926 kuna per breeding throat. No grasslands, no agricultural land needs to be resolved, land rental in Istria is relatively expensive, and for one throat you de facto need at least one hectare of land Well, we don't have anything to say about this GMO, and I'm far more interested in what someone's threatening us with simply that bottle-stamping. [[Adversity President: Comrade Cain, you can return to modification.]] All in all, Mr. President, it's a good thing Mr. Boxtija triggered that debate, so I'm joining this initiative, not GMOs, not cloning. [[Intruder President: You do not have a binding mandate, especially you do not.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76704	Thank you, too. We have a replica of the esteemed representative of Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76705	... Excuse me. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Who launched the Boscarin cloning initiative? The answer is very simple, go to the Ministry of Agriculture and they will tell you who launched the initiative. We were presented that it was, the initiative was launched by an association of breeders of Istrian cattle called boscarin. Whether it's true or not, I don't know, but I also read this text like you in the Morning List, from it it's visible that they didn't run it. Now, who I don't know, I'm just as interested in as you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76706	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76707	I can't believe that breeders would do that, under quotes, Istrian cattle or Bokarin. I can't believe you'd be behind that, for example. Mr. Štifanic, who is the president of the association, stood by and resolutely deny it. In the same way, it was denied by Mr. Gratiano Preklaj from the AGRRI agency who literally said that cloning, multiplication, as I know, is the only genetic system, Istrian cattle are rich in different genetic properties and it should be preserved as its wealth, etc. So it's not cloning. I can't believe this initiative started in Istria, but if it is, I'll try and get the information from the competent ministry and see who's telling the truth, or who's cheating on both the Istrian and Croatian public. Not GMOs, not cloning. If it should fail, let it fail, but at least we'll know what we used to be, what kept us alive and how we got this one burned.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76708	Dear colleagues, the Assembly speaker is not intended for covert advertising, even if it is an important topic. Please, distinguished representative Ivica Madic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76709	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, prompted by your alleged bizarre work of the Agriculture Committee of the Croatian Parliament, I would say that such remarks should not be made especially if you were not present. What I'm responding to is certainly what my colleague Box said, that this was a way of protecting particularly endangered species and that the proposal came just... as my colleague said. As regards the position of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament is certainly not cloning, certainly not GMO food. What you brought yourself into one contradiction when we talk about the boscarin, that it's a particularly endangered breed, we end up with a commercial and a question, the species is particularly endangered, and it ends up on a line of slaughter. Therefore, it does not go a little bit with each other, and the way in which it should be encouraged or supported also for the boscarin, the Republic and the waist should say what the number of boscarins is, so that it is not invariably, and that someone else pays someone else's commercial.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76710	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76711	That a respected colleague, and most upset me, first of all, with a sign in the morning list, who wants to clone the Istrian bottle? Here, that upsets us. And I don't agree with you that there's anything bizarre about it here but the fact that it's been incentivizing since 94 has been a permanent reduction. I said earlier at the pay phone that they defacto melted. At the time, up to 8000 kuna were given to the cow and calf, and the stimulation now stands at 1926 kuna. And the other thing I'm going to tell you is, there's no way to save the boscarin without commercials. We have to grow them, we have to offer them to restaurants, because otherwise this Istrian farmer, a tough, peasant, will still have no interest in these animals to devote his time and deal with them. And it must be understood by the Croatian public, only in this way can we save the Istrian Bokarin. And not just that indigenous variety, but maybe some others. Their price in restaurants is clearly that kilo of meat is incomparably higher than others, but to raise the price is also much higher, and the quality of the food is not to be spoken of.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76712	We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is next to the Croatian Labour Club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Branko Vukšić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76713	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Cesarik, colleagues and colleagues, I will only use this payphone for a little while. Mr. Caine probably has Mr. Jakovcic's fingers in the cloning of the boxers for sure, he assumes. You said don't clone to GMOs. First of all, we should have thought about it at times when we negotiated with the European Union. This is what we are, all of the speakers have already said to us that the Ministry of Agriculture has taken over jobs that the State Inspectorate has done in part so far. However, even in this document, and in all other documents, it says what everyone has probably read, the European Union tells us, that is to say, in some it recommends the consistency of genetically modified crops with conventional and organic cultivation. We need to ensure co-existence. We accept it, so we can't yell now, we can be here with a pay phone pretending to be so aware of what GMOs mean. You, when from the stage, should have yelled at those times when it was manual and when we could have changed something, I'm not saying we can't change it right now. Croatia, I agree with those who advocate it, Croatia should remain a state that is either cleaned or should be kept clean from GMO food, but I say it would be much easier to realize that in time we warned that Croatia is a specific country and that we have fought to be an oasis in the European Union and that we are growing means food in a conventional way and with crops that are not GMOs. And not only will ensuring the consistency of genetically modified crops with conventional and organic farming, but in the near future, GMOs will flood Croatia's food. We'll eat what we shouldn't eat, eat the food we've been so judgmental and when we've agreed to GMOs. It should also be said that GMOs force large corporations because its cultivation is far easier, cheaper, they do so not because they would do good to humanity but because of the greater profit. In particular, GMOs are rooted in the poorest countries, and it should be recognised that even when we look ourselves in the eye and admit that corporations in both the European Union and the world mean the globe of the Earth above countries and that money can do anything, that profit wins over governments and the most powerful states, then we will realize that our fight against GMOs will be very difficult and that the results will be very thin. Feeding healthy, that steam is a clean past because GMOs will flood us and there is almost no dam, the dam should have worked again at a time when negotiations with the European Union were negotiated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76714	Thank you very much. We have three replicas. Let's go first, dear representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76715	Mr. Representative, I don't know who's got fingers in Bokarin cloning, but I do know that in that bizarreness, Jakovcic doesn't have his fingers. In many other ways, yes, but in this surely no one can impute him. Some things, for example. from the way the media is taken over, the control of the media space in Istria, the media racket that, but about cloning the bokers, his attitude is identical to mine and I trust yours and the vast majority of MPs in this home. Yesterday I was in one of the stands dedicated to the opportunities of the New List. And I can only say one thing that the media standard in that list that exists in the coastal mountain county is unfortunately not going to reach 103 light years.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76716	Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76717	Dear colleague Cain, this whole Jacob thing was just a little bit of a nudge. I am the same as you and as you said Mr. Jakovcic against cloning the boscarin and against cloning at all against cloning and against GMO food. And as far as this New List is concerned, it certainly needs to be said from this payphone that it is necessary to preserve the New List, that the state should do everything in order for the New List to exist and to remove various... that extract profits from the media to deal with more lucrative construction jobs and to poison media space. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is done in the New List is absolutely certain that it is directed not only against the New List, not only against journalists but against democracy in Croatia, against the whole media space. Someone wants to knowingly destroy a good newspaper.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76718	First of all, without... I was warned from the other side. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Honorable representative Igor Czech replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76719	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleague Vuksic can agree with almost all of your debate. You were talking about co-existence between GMO products and conventional agricultural products. There's no peaceful co-existence, it's impossible. Because natural pollinators wind and insects don't know the difference between GMO products and conventional agriculture or even worse organic agriculture. And we like to boast ourselves that there is a future in organic agriculture. So we see for ourselves that the entire European Union practically pays a double price for organic grown products. If we have defined ourselves as such, and this is the goal of increasing the production of organic and organic, then Croatia must be a GMO free country.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76720	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76721	Dear Mr. Chesek, I agree, you were saying that there is no peaceful co-existence, not only if we become, and we are not, a cleansed country of GMOs, means a clean country with conventional breeding neighborhoods like you said, pollinators have neither eyes nor know what GMO food is. We can't set up some dams and some walls. And that's why I said fighting GMOs would be almost impossible and she's already lost. And as much as we here with speakers yell that we are against GMOs, GMOs have surrounded us, GMOs are increasingly in Croatia and large corporations insist on it and it is a pre-lost battle.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76722	Dear Representative Ivica Mandic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76723	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Vuksic, I agree with you almost in the most part. But what is safe and what you said in this replica is that genetically modified food arrives in the Republic of Croatia, whether against meat products, is through others. What's our job in this High House is to ensure that the citizens know what they're eating. And the obligation to highlight each product has a origin of genetically modified food. Because as far as I know Brazil, Argentina, large fields of soy, it's all genetically modified and we get a large portion of the product exactly, meat products from these parts of the world. So it would certainly be good for the citizens to get information and then the citizen may, as he wishes, be able to take traditional, ecological, organic food and decide for himself. So it is important to give the citizen the right information that is contained in a particular product that is on the market in Croatia. Mostly Croatia is still without the crops of genetically modified organisms.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76724	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76725	Mr. Mandic, I agree with you, the citizens need to know what they eat, that's what we were talking about when we talked about food declarations that should be highlighted in clear capital letters and should be in stores as it says in some restaurants here smoking is allowed or smoking is not allowed here. It seems to me as much as we have now resisted that soon all the stores will write here is all GMOs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76726	We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is the Club of Representatives of the SDSS in the Croatian Assembly and the Honorable Representative of Mile Horvat. Here's my colleague Horvath.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76727	My fellow Members and colleagues, the President of the Croatian Parliament, I welcome the Deputy Minister of Health, the Assistant Minister of Health Deputy. [[Intruder: Deputy, deputy colleague, deputy.]] A very small law, the amendments to the law in one article, all colleagues had previously said what the essence of these amendments were, so the jurisdiction of inspection affairs is in line and this jurisdiction is now being transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture. And that's where we stopped. So we wouldn't have to discuss these amendments to the law anymore. We wouldn't have to if it weren't for us to be a very interesting subject that hasn't been discussed in the media so far. So, GMO food, use of GMO food, production of GMO products. In any case, the profession should be discussed, which is primarily geneticists, i.e. molecular biologists at the very least. We can all lay low and talk about it and say some sort of your point of view. And I'm about to say as a layman a few things that I came up with by analyzing the experiences and opinions of academic, individual academic circles from the world. Just to encourage me to think about the fact that it is a GMO and what is probably waiting for us in the future and in line with what my colleagues have warned me about. By definition genetically modified foods are plants, fruits and vegetables, crops that are obtained by crossing genes of different kinds of plants in order to get some new, better properties, larger crops, larger fruits, better looks, less potential for corruption, and possibly slightly lower prices. And that's the definition of GMO food and all that would be ideal if it really were. The first analysis carried out in our premises says that only 7% of our people would consume GMO food, 58 would not consume it if they had the opportunity to choose it. That's a very interesting piece of information. The most repulsion of GMOs, GMOs showed respondents in Dalmatia, as many as 68 and 62% in northern Croatia. And that's probably talking about the fact that in these places, some aspects of food quality are being considered differently. Studies in the world also say from the point of view benefits can also be read to believe that genetically modified crops do not benefit farmers in the world, instead many problems have been identified such as increased use of herbicides, unequal performance, poor economic profit for farmers. But it is also indicated that the strengthening of corporate monopoly on food has the consequence of poverty and poverty of family farms around the world, and this is the fact that the essence of the introduction of GMO food is to strengthen corporate monopolies to food. The following research suggests that the use of GMOs increases the risk of allergies in humans and domestic animals that consume such GMOs. So then we have the results of several scientific studies that have shown that allergic reactions in certain cases can also be fatal. For example, there was an increase in allergic reactions by 50% more after the start of the use of GMOs in Great Britain, Ireland and the United States. Due to the facts presented, the British Medical Association has issued an open invitation to ban the further spread of GMO crops and food, while the prominent British scientist Sir William Asher, who has openly called GM food with Frankenstein's food. So that's the attitude of such a respected academic. We also have experience from France which at the end of last year are the results of the first long-term study on the effects of GMO seeds in the world, did a team of scientists from the French University of Cayenne. This study showed that Monsant's corn in the class NK 603 as the most used hybrid in the world, so their hybrid that is used next to it is a rundap. Otherwise, its use is commercialized in the European Union, used independently or combined, together, causing tumors, immune system disorders, hormones and a whole range of other disorders leading to premature death. It's a study by the French University of Cayenne last year. Green Peace published the publication "The Guide for Customers" which presented most of the food producers and marked those containing GMOs, world food producers. I, of course, won't say what they are from this pay phone, but the fact is, our people need to know that GMO food is in ketchups and sauces, that it's in soups, bags, cubes, canned soups, that it's in vegetarian food. GMOs are found in spices, supplements, GMOs are located in drinks, in all types of beer, coffee, Pepsi, Coli, etc. The GMO is also found in baker's accessories. It means that, regardless of our desire to or not, it is already through the products of these global companies, the manufacturer present here on our market. The following research and the next question was raised by science regarding Monsanto, or their famous soybean. Monsanto's company can be talked about a lot, it's not an opportunity now, so from the perspective of the farmer of the GMO soy company Monsanto, which is some kind of promising model for soybean production around the world, nothing greater than usual, even more than all Monsanto GM varieties have one single advantage, they are resistant to their own herbicide raidap. Thus, all philosophy is in what counterpart Vuksic said, in large monopoly food producers who want to monopolise the basic thing, which is the production of strategic raw materials, which is food production. In view of the impact of non-ecology, the GMO's balance sheet says that about 40 GMOs are seeds at 160 million hectares in the world, more than 40,000 varieties of hybrids created by evolution during this time or the efforts of experts in numerous institutions around the world have been destroyed. So we've reduced the entire one scientific liquid to 40 GMO food models that control two to three corporations in the world. And lastly, I will only say that experience from the European Union, 12 European Union ministers are calling on Brussels not to approve GMO corn. In fact, the Council for European Affairs held a debate on the approval of GMO-resistant corn farming in 1507 developed by the DuPont house. There were 19 member states, including the Republic of Croatia. However, these 19 Member States do not have a qualified majority to reject the proposal and, in this case, as a matter of principle, the European Commission should make its own decision on the approval of that type of GMO product within 24 hours. And then the question arises as to what an absurd situation it is that most countries oppose the introduction of such a GMO product, that the European Parliament is against such an introduction of a GMO product, and the European Commission wants, regardless of this opposition, to introduce such a GMO product into the European Union market. Therefore, this points to the way the European Union works and, of course, this points to the fact that there is an exceptional interest in protecting certain monopoly world producers of GMO seeds that are likely to be a pattern of use in our fields tomorrow. Therefore, the conclusion is one. If we want to keep strategic production in our hands, the basic strategic production, which is food production, we need to think deeply about the impact of the GMO policy imposed on members of the European Union within the European Union. In any case, we will accept these amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76728	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas now. Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76729	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Horvat, here I am truly in agreement with you in this part where you spoke and I think it was necessary today to emphasize this part of the GMO in this very way that you presented to us to find out something. Today there may be some topics that should be fast and are quite short in content, but this is a very important and important area. You have warned of, of course, those harmful moments that may be the result of the use of GMO food. I want to talk about it because I come from the county that first got involved on that green list free of GMOs. But in any case, there's all this stuff that you said and all these potential dangers that arise. Of course you mentioned in that section and mentioned the use of herbicides, pesticides in that part. Of course, under these circumstances, we are directed in our way of production in the conventional way that fellow Vuksic spoke of along with here and the use of these and the funds I told you about. But look what's going on. In this void, in this very short time, we discussed in this House the use of pesticides and made binding certain measures for our farmers who must go with education on how to apply, storage and everything else. And look what the problem is. Now on the team, to facilitate our farmers' rules of application have not yet been passed. He'll be brought somewhere in the sixth month as far as I know. We are involved in local self-government units to help our farmers be educated, to be able to apply quality and proper, and here it is waiting. Well, that's inadmissible stuff, that can't happen. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76730	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76731	Thanks, buddy. I just wanted to say, I have some impression that this whole thing is going strategically in two steps. So, first, at the level of large corporations and at the level of the European Union, the mandatory use of certain GMOs is introduced, and then, of course, the aim is to use certain pesticides, herbicides and everything else, because one thing goes with the other in the package. And it's not an accident that that's the case. If we're going to be educated, we probably will. However, much greater is the danger that comes from the character of GMO food that I was just talking about. We will probably, our people are very vital and tough and he will prepare for this type of production. The question of what are the strategic long-term consequences of the use of such seeds and of these protections for these seeds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76732	Honorable representative Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76733	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Horvat, you said in your statement that the jurisdiction of control would be taken over by the Ministry of Agriculture, and I'm asking myself such a question by listening to your debate, and who was in control during this period as the State Inspectorate was abolished. We're in the time of spring seed. Could these areas of lawlessness have been used to come to Croatia and some of these products? And what you mentioned to me when you mentioned that part about the Ministry of Agriculture that I'm interested in, maybe you can know more about it. I can't really read it, but this is really about an area where citizens should know clearly, and so do we, as representatives who are exactly inspection, what that inspection is called exactly that will control GMOs. Maybe if you happen to have any knowledge, here I'd like to ask you for some further clarifications.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76734	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76735	I'd like to thank my colleague, Hrg. So the real questions you've opened. I just read what's been written in the amendments and here it says: "The competent inspection on the quality of the food of the central body of the State Department for Agriculture Affairs." So it would be really good if our proposer were to say here that he defines which organ, which is the body, how he thinks to work, is it teamed up. I figured this out in the context of previous laws where we've already arranged it in advance so we've abolished the inspection, so we've transferred it to various ministries. Whether it's good or not is now a final act. Now from the point of view of today's debate, we say this is a final act and this is how it has to be aligned. But we would do well to be told the definition of bodies within the ministry to deal with inspection affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76736	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Kresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76737	Thank you very much. Col. Horvat HDSSB has spoken clearly these days, two weeks to close the borders would probably be hungry because the big imports are right in Croatia and I'm wondering who controlled the cross-border transport last three months, but also the treatment of GMOs? Why am I saying that? Because for years we in Osijek have also the Department of Seeding and Dispersion and we can control GMOs, but what is most important what is the limit of GMOs in a particular or seed or product? And who's setting that line? And then we can't say that we haven't eaten GMOs in the past months but also that it wasn't planted on our Slavonic and Baranja fields of GMO seeds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76738	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76739	My colleague Bubalo agrees with you and I will only repeat, so I could list here at least 20 products and manufacturers of renowned, branded foreign companies because they are mostly on our shelves by suppliers. They'd see that each of these products has a GMO component. Therefore, we can generally claim as a country that we do not have GMO production, a list of these producers deny it. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. I said that we are not aware that every day we consume most of the products that contain the GMO component, and if I could, and I can't, because of the advertising or anti-reclams of certain companies, we would be surprised to see what we have GMOs in today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76740	Dear Representative Boro Grubisic on behalf of the HDSSB club in the Croatian Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76741	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. It seems to me that as Bosnia has said, the paw has fallen, and in Croatia we have laid down our weapons without firing a bullet in front of the flow of GMOs, so GMO food. Why do I say that? So because Croatia or Croatian citizens purchase, purchase, supply of food of 23 billion euros per year. And of that, it's 15 billion euros from imports. The relationship to GMO crops and GMOs we know and read from various papers, scientific research that are very often contradictory. Industry, rightly said the GMO food industry, not as someone likes to say banking industry, this is exactly the GMO food industry and GMO seeds, crops are very powerful. These are corporations that are joined on a level of almost all continents. Just to point out that the corporation that was created in the United States is already I think Mr. Horvat mentioned her name but this is not the place for us to mention or advertise, but these names have been established in the United States not to say "GMO" food monopoly and it has been slowly entering the EU since 1998. The European Parliament and the European Commission cannot find a common language. In the European Parliament, MPs, 751 of them, therefore, weighs the opinion of the anti-GMO, to cut short, while the European Commission is clearly under certain pressures simply thinking differently. Where do we belong, because we are a member of the EU and where are we going and what can we do? So, when you look on Sundays, and I like to look at it, I think some of the other colleagues here, so that agricultural show "The Fruits of the Earth" used to start right after the news, pardon the noon diaries at 12.05 today it starts almost at 12.40. Why is it starting so late? So, before that, at least half an hour ago, we've been bombarded with commercials of agricultural not products, but above all by seeds, pesticides, herbicides and all other means used and recommended by various companies mostly those from abroad. Now I won't speak names again, but we know all those who watch. See only how many in those half hours are ordered companies recommending various seeds, herbicides, pesticides and all that follows. So, waiting for that show, you can see a man of all sorts. GMO seeds, food and others are derived from the tendency to say greater offerings. This was the primary objective of producing GMO crops. What does GMO mean? So these are genetically modified organisms. So it's about plants and animals. Although there's engineering today and it's started with people's genetic engineering. Today, insulin is produced through certain GMO operations on escherichia and collia, although the insulin does not have a DN but is produced by insulin in surgery on the DNA of the escherichia. Today we're hearing about attempts to clone the bokerins as one colleague said. Today, the worms’ genes are trying to apply to the genetic structure of the pig to produce omega three fatty acids and not saturated fatty acids in this process of creating meat and other pig products, and then the knots and nuts would be approximately one and the other with unsatisfactory fatty acids. Very interesting theory. I'm not going to talk about that, the cross of the pig and the centipede, that was already at this Croatian Assembly. The Scottish Institute did research on GMO potatoes, which is filled with so-called proliferants, so substances that defuse, or pardon, stimulate the growth of tumors but also so-called so-called so-called proliferants. Lectins that get away from digestion, and then after such consumption of such potatoes, you have a sense of bloating, therefore of poor gastrointestinal work, loss of appetite, etc. There's a lot of work going on in these GMO labs, by the way, to mention that all 30 scientists from the Scottish Institute after being funded by the very company that manufactures this GMO potato have been fired. Immediately thereafter, knowledge and publication of work in the world’s magazines were now fired. Now we have a chance to discuss GMO food, who will monitor and control that food, the Ministry of Agriculture, although it is well known that these climate changes that are here today are visible to everyone, blame themselves for the rise in temperature. So we will also be aware of the consequences that will arise and is already known from medical research, starting with the development of 50% allergies compared to the previous ones, starting with the fall of the immune system, from an increased number of neoplasms, so tumors, new formations, let's say in the language of citizens, people, therefore people, for these consequences for which we still do not have enough information because the use of GMOs is not in such a large time period to find out what is the consequence of the use of GMO food in humans. Croatia with 4 million and about 300 thousand inhabitants, with everything God has told us in Gundulić Dubravca, has the possibility that, with conventional food from seeds, we can feed both Croatia and eight million inhabitants without the use of GMOs. Unfortunately, I don't know who obviously cares about ours, too, to say a small market of 4 million and 300 inhabitants now relatively good and large areas and not polluted areas in the Republic of Croatia with a large number to say agricultural areas, to pollute them with GMO products. Clearly, that large capital and corporations working on it have a huge impact, and above all money, it's capital, it doesn't choose borders, and it doesn't choose its place of action. How can we oppose this, so simply by consensus, by all of us, given these warnings we have spoken before when we talked about GMO food, so then pesticides and herbicides and others that we all simply agree in the Croatian Parliament, I hope that the Government will have no objection in this case, as the European Commission and the European Parliament have different opinions. If we were all unique, we could make these conclusions, vote this way to free Croatia from GMOs. Someone here said or said in the materials that GMO crops support diversity, diversification of species which is not true and the best information is that here's what my colleague before me said 40 thousand original old varieties destroyed in the world, 40 grand was destroyed precisely because of the sowing or planting or cultivation of GMO species. There are a number of examples of the use of genetically modified organisms on all river crops, seeds or animal organisms, and here it says that the Ministry of Agriculture will mark, only mark GMO products containing or consisting of GMOs at the level of retailing, which means that 0.9% more than 0.9% of the GMO composition of that seed or seedling or animal organism will then either be food of origin with more than 0.9% of GMOs, that it will be marked by a six-point font as otherwise done to hide or hide the GMOs. A colleague said there are almost no beers in Croatia today, and most of them are mostly owned by foreign, therefore brewers, and that you have not brought in some of the GMOs, starting with those substrates and ingredients of which beer is made to increase beer production, then you need a better yield of beer barley or hops or whatever is already going into beer, so to increase transmission, then genetic modification and raw materials to produce beer. I just feel like we haven't had enough clear and active resistance to this breakthrough, we've pushed GMOs into Croatia and we've actually got a bit of a kick here in the Croatian Parliament without some big debate and without some big or bile discussion we've laid down weapons that I don't like anyway. Since the law is actually the same technical measure as what was before on the agenda, and the State Inspectorate has already been declared earlier and against this law the HDSSB will be against or against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76742	Thank you, too. Let's go to the replicas. Dear Representative Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76743	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Grubisic, you said that often studies and study results are contradictory, but I would not say so. Studies carried out by independent institutes and by really independent experts, biochemists always show the harmfulness and adverse effects of genetically modified organisms. Therefore, they generally prove that it is a food that is harmful to the human organism. You mentioned a case of potatoes in Scotland, where even Tony Blair, as could be seen from the media, reacted after which he was touched, one of the world's best biochemists was fired and banned from teaching at school. So it's about an industry that obviously has a very strong influence on the political sphere. One of the latest studies on genetically modified corn, approved for human use in the United States, is an unequivocal study that proves that it damages the human organism and causes tumor growth and accelerated mortality. So, no doubt, it's about the food that's allowed to be used in the United States. So, I think until we have... that really, in that old saying, let the food be your cure, or the cure be your food, by that moment we won't take seriously how important it is actually to strengthen as much of our agriculture as possible in a way to access knowledge, to really get quality products, environmental, biological. I'd say the most advanced methods we have, say in Germany, biodynamic agriculture that requires the truth of a lot of knowledge, but the quality of these products is above the quality that exists on the market and most importantly, it's healthy and of course it's much more expensive that product, which means that it can be more profitable if it's that way...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76744	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76745	Thank you very much. Coli Matušić, you see not far from your place of residence, so there is little north there is one professor and one institute, so in one larger city than what Dubrovnik, which is just our local man, who spoke and who wrote about Croatia being also the predecessors of GMO research and production of GMOs, I read half an hour ago about it, so I said that they are controversial, so they are controversial research and attitudes and they are high, not only educated, but highly positioned experts in the world. And as for malignancies and incidences, hence malignancies and GMO potatoes, which I was also talking about from GMO corn, it's proven. Again, you have experts out there who are very pronouncing, but I believe, and I can't prove, I believe, so which finances? Those in Scotland financed by Monsanto were fired, all 30 experts from Scotland.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76746	Dear Representative Drazen Djurovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76747	Thank you. You spoke about genetically modified insulin, but here the subject is only genetically modified food, it is not questionable that genetic modifications are used in various areas of application, but here the focus is on food only. And when it comes to this food, there's no better example, we don't need a lot of research but actually population research in those countries and a representation from those countries where genetically modified food has been in use for decades, and that's in the first row of the United States. You have from the United States very extensive and detailed statistics on what happens to the population, what happens to chronic diseases in the United States, what happens to cardiovascular diseases and a whole series of new diseases that occur in this population, and there are not, for example, in such a proportion in the European population or in the Croatian population. And they can stick non-smoking stamps as much as they want in the United States, but it doesn't help them because of the way they feed and exactly because of the way they eat, and that food, which unfortunately is highly extended in that population, is not people's fault, but simply pushed them, they today have... and cardiovascular diseases in such an expansion and such growth as has not been reported practically anywhere in the EU's space. We are like a club if you remember to propose if we cannot already prevent this GMO food that is already coming to our market in various forms to be installed in our legislation, which is not contrary to European Union regulations to make these products clearer and more visible. But the promoter refused it in our amendment a few months ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76748	Thank you. Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76749	Thank you very much, colleague Djurović, for reminding me of that debate we had here six months ago and the battle to at least clearly and visiblely mark GMO food. What you were saying about the United States, so it's obvious from, here's if we're looking at some Oprah show, that Jerry thing, and so on. and you can see that the percentage of adipose, so fat people in the United States is extremely high compared to other countries, that's pathological thickness, these are people who have 180 pounds, 150, 100, 200 kilograms amazing. This clearly increases the incidence of heart disease and other diseases, diabetes. And since you've already talked about insulin clearly that insulin is not food but it is, therefore, used for the exploitation of the food that man eats. So I just mentioned it as one of the doubts where people, where scientists break a spear about that insulin produced by that animal, was beef and pork, etc., and this one is even productive from to say certain genetic mutations on escherichia coli, is one bacteria, gram negative in that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76750	Honorable representative Tomislav Žagar replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76751	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Grubisic here today are almost all speakers and you were among them agreeing that genetically modified organisms are i.e. Food that's harmful. And here, actually alone at first, because as a man, I'm scared of actually all the consequences that can come from the consumption of such foods. However, you yourself said that we do not have enough data on how much harmful it can cause genetically modified food. The truth here today you mention it in, French scientists experimented with rats to determine the harmfulness of causing tumors. What I'm trying to say is that science is progressing. We can agree here, perhaps with the law package in the future, we can remove genetically modified organisms from use. Whether that's how we don't produce that kind of food or prevent the import of that kind of food. However, science will not stop. I don't think that fight is that trivial or simple. You also mentioned the production of human insulin protein. Surely it's one of the indicators that genetic engineering can be and have positive sides. Advocacy, and there are few of them, there are scientists who advocate, and even all the opponents call them behind, that they simply don't understand things, so they rebel. We can say that the situation is quite complex, we're about to have a hard fight that's actually going to happen, and you said yourself it's going to take a long time to see the effects of what's going on today. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76752	Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76753	Comrade Sagar, you have well analyzed what I have said, but despite all the doubts of scientists about GMO food, despite all the results that are, and the consequences, which are now evident, so on what the colleague Horvat said about allergy, the fall of immunity. Here in America we have a really huge percentage of big people, so look at the footage from New York and the current and the ones from the popular American, Jerry, Oprah show, etc. Look how many fat people are sitting there. So it's not there, it's not just fat people brought in, it's a population that's chosen as an ad hoc. Therefore, I am still coming from Slavonia, not only because of this, but also by the nature of the conservative, so as someone else in the European Parliament. But on the issue of GMOs I'd rather, I hope so and, and you ate what you didn't, which has no impact on GMOs but what it has, admit it yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76754	Honorable representative Igor Češek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76755	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Grubisic, you practically spoke about GMO beer at the end of your debate. And that you're right, beer contains corn syrup as a substitute for sugar, it's a cheaper substitute, and usually because it's import, we know how much GMO corn production is in the world and how that corn is used. In it is practically installed gene bacteria bacillus... to be resistant to gold corn. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what happened, what does nature tell us? Well, nature itself confirms that this corn gold has become resistant to such a corn hybrid. So even with GMO production, we can't fight nature. But what's even more worrying about who uses such corn in their diet? It is used of course in livestock, and we can also witness that in 2013 in Croatia we produced a million kilograms of milk, a million tonnes of milk less than in 2012. So, the fact that we have imported so much milk more and worryingly is that children also feed on such milk, and we can even say freely and wonder if that milk is healthy and GMO free.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76756	Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76757	There is a beer malt factory in Novi Grad, so there is a new town in our County of Brod-Posavia. All her assorting goes abroad, into export kits, and beer malt is made from beer in another country, so abroad what do you say? Well, that's not exactly an example in terms of exports but production in our fields which and which we have in all of our Slavonic counties of beer malt that has no opportunity to, or quantity that would be significant in terms of GMOs. As for milk, so I wouldn't, I don't know what I'd call it, is it deliberate or is it from the incessant destruction of domestic milk production that was a billion liters, a billion were production, a billion liters are Croatian needs, 900 million liters we produced in 2011, in '10, '11. And now the book has fallen to three letters, so now it's about 500 million gallons or half of domestic needs. And it's in constant decline because milk cow farms close from day to day, fail, cows sell go to forced slaughter, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76758	Thank you very much. We've exhausted a list of committees registered to discuss this subject of replica and answers. Now we're moving on to an individual debate of ten-minute MPs. It's the honorary representative Maria Ilic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76759	I thank the Honorable President of the Parliament and Deputy Minister. According to me, 19 Member States of the European Union have recently declared themselves against GMOs. Next, I believe that Croatia should not depend on all the decisions in Brussels, because Croatia certainly has the right to protect itself completely from GMOs because of the conditions. And in this way, be ready for a moment when the European Commission will give way to pressure, and every day more and more and more, and which has been very big lately. According to Directive 2001/18 of the European Commission, each Member State of the European Union has the right to decide on a ban on GMO traffic. And we need to use that right as soon as possible because it now decides what future generations and our children will eat and consume. Unfortunately, GMO corn, as we know it, is already here somewhere, produced and grown in Spain. And such corn are grown in the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Portugal, Romania and Poland. Croatia needs to create clear mechanisms for the ban on GMOs and send a message that it wants to remain a country free of GMOs. We cannot reject the possibility, or I would say the fact that the consumption of GMOs has a number of health risks, such as most of the predecessors said, including organ damage, sterileness, infant mortality, congenital defects, allergies, an increase in the risk of cancer and a series of other diseases. Croatia has unique natural values and a great opportunity to develop organic food production and can ensure natural nutrition for future generations. Our country, which rarely has conditions in the world for the production of healthy food released from GMOs. Exactly where I come from, Slavonia and Baranja is an inexhaustible resource of organic healthy food production that can feed not only Croatia but also a large and large part of Europe. That is why I appeal that we are pushing for as much as we can for the development of organic agriculture and its advantages in terms of human nutrition and health, environmental protection and, therefore, good I would say, economic development based on production and then exporting more and more healthy food that is being sought and it is almost a trend I would say on the world market. Let us resist various corporates, above all, profits and some European committees, commissions that simply want to impose GMO products on us. We have the quality of the land, we have the water, we have the sun and so much so that the production of GMO products should never be dealt with. I believe that the production of healthy food and our tourism can get Croatia out of the crisis, well put it on pedestal, I would say the world's forces to produce healthy food without GMOs. On the way to decision 14 counties free for now from GMOs I feel we are obliged to make or create preconditions for Croatia's future without GMOs. And of course, what is very important and very important is to create mechanisms of control in this area of GMO placement in our country on our market, which controls must be rigorous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76760	Thank you, too. We have a replica. One, two, three, four, five. Dear Representative Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76761	Thank you, Mr. President. So I agree with you colleagues that it would actually be very important for Croatia to make such a decision to be a country freed from GMO products and organisms and in that sense, especially as regards food that we should take this step and that we can make it, that it is exclusively up to us whether we want to make that step or not. Well, I'm afraid that even now because of the lack of food control in Croatia, the products in Croatia, I'm afraid that he is already present, even in those counties where the decision has been formally made that the county is without GMOs. So I'm afraid because of the lack of control, we already have those present on the market and in the food of that kind of food, the product that contains GMOs in it. And in that sense, we really need to strengthen those institutions that could do control, day-to-day control. The fact is that, most often, food producers that are used in large quantities of herbicides, pesticides, etc., very often they themselves finance certain research and, of course, the result of such research is highly questionable. We need to strengthen independent institutions in the system, completely independent, which will daily control all kinds of food. This is the only way we can be sure that we will come up with quality research, quality results and certainly the future is in organic production. But organic production, as I said earlier, involves much more knowledge, of course investment in knowledge, and certainly the final product will be much more expensive, but also more cost-effective to all those involved in this type of production. Biodynamic agriculture in the first place, and then below that organic, organic, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76762	Thank you very much. Replicate reply, distinguished representative Marija Ilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76763	Well, Your Honor, I am in my debate, and I have pointed out in particular that nothing without rigorous control and I agree with you even in that segment where you said that certain independent institutions that would be formed would therefore form from the professions that would exercise that control, so those who are not biased.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76764	Dear Representative Mile Horvat, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76765	Thank you. Comrade Ilic, you have listed here a series of diseases that have been recorded as side effects on the use of GMOs. So I just want to say the following, no wonder that these diseases appear, I don't know if the known data but the known term cyclone B that was used in the second war as an exceptional poison with a special purpose, that we're not talking now, but the fact that this cyclone B in some loose form was used as a pesticide, and let's say Monsanto's firm did it in '67. introduced as a pesticide into normal use your own. The question is whether it's still being used today, God forbid it's being used, but the fact is that back in the year, that cyclone B was being used as a pesticide. Among other things, then what do we expect to have confidence in GMOs, seeds and so on, which are offered by such one world corporation, and we know some other information about how these corporations work. And your fear that what our children are going to eat is completely justified, our children are already eating GMO supplements in the ketchup, eating in the chili, eating in Nestle, in Nesteo, in the lemon, eating in that cold coffee, in Irish coffee, and not counting more where everything is not used as a GMO supplement. The only question is, of course, the limit where this subtle line is between benefits and danger from such GMOs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76766	Replicate reply, distinguished representative Marija Ilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76767	Your Honor, I agree with you, we're almost thinking the same thing. Of course I'm not a profession, like you are, to enter into an analysis as much as in which plants, in a fruit or some vegetables that we all buy together, there's poison somewhere. But that's why we should support the controls in our country, and we have conditions for it, so we have conditions for the production of healthy food, for the production of food that will go to export, which is certainly now a trend in the world market, but that we don't get the poisons you've been talking about on the little door, we should have increased control. I completely agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76768	Honorable representative Branko Box, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76769	I thank you, Mr. President. Well, fellow Members, you started your presentation with a vote in the European Commission, 19 counter-28, 19 for it, and the rest was against it. However, you know how it ended, so most of it was for but the procedure for the authorisation of breeding in the territory of the European Union will go on. On the other hand, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a regulation on 29 March on the basis of which a producer's obligation to label products containing GMOs is lifted. Now, let's put each other together, make a parallel, draw a conclusion. And you also said that you advocate that Croatia be freed from GMO products. So only by our own control will we achieve what you stand for, but right now we don't have a situation like this right now. I repeat, the Government has adopted a regulation based on no longer obligation to label products containing GMO organisms.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76770	Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76771	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Ilic agreed completely with the whole part where you spoke about GMO products, harmfulities, potential risks, all that stands. And I'm coming from the county that's also in this group free of GMOs. But I was more encouraged by the replica of the part where you said that Croatia has the conditions for producing healthy food, for producing organic food, for producing sufficient amounts of food. Well, we have the potential to produce food for 25 million people, but that requires it. If agriculture is a strategic branch it requires a clear strategy, it requires clear rules of play. Do not change the course of the game to change the rules in this way, to cut drastically the support that they have in some way improved, raised production. Well, that was obvious, the production was quite high, and then eventually this data from counterpart Grubisic stands cannot be that way. Environmental production also requires a clear way of supporting it. All this requires, therefore, one effort, a clear determination, and let's not say certain wanderings, so to speak and unpreparedness. Many times and go now at the level of these European circumstances, go now to the additions, changes. It's harmful and it's reversed our agriculture, and now we're on it, under the circumstances we're in. Here's the problem. That's what the rules of the game are for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76772	Thank you, too. Replicate reply, distinguished representative Marija Ilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76773	Your Honor, I'm glad you agree with me. In fact, I believe that there is not a single representative in this assembly who disagrees with the thesis on the production of healthy food in our country. We have resources and we have especially when you know Slavonia and Baranja yourself in a matter that is still part of mines, which must be cleaned from mines, could be a resource from which everyone could, therefore, be an entire country, and also a part of Europe as you said where healthy food would be produced. That's what I said. Maybe all of us here who have had the debate and have been moved to think about it could go that way and in that direction. Rules and there are to be broken and rules exist to change them. And accordingly, all those who are obliged to hear it, here is the Deputy Minister to hear and to focus on some of the questions that we have raised here in our debates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76774	Honorable representative Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76775	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, all this stuff you've been saying is really fine and a man couldn't object to it. There's only one problem. You talked about the need to resist large corporations because they of course encourage GMOs, the import of GMOs that Croatia has the potential to produce food especially organically clean food. And now we're getting into trouble. You are saying this on behalf of the Croatian Retirement Party, members of the Kukuriku coalition which has done evil to family farms, and the destruction of family agricultural holdings is equal to an increase in GMO food production or imports. That's the way it is. So I'm asking you now how we're going to boost organic clean production if the leading political party in Kukurik coalition recently told in a debate that the job in the country, in the OPG is too expensive and that it needs to be reduced, that it needs to be employed in larger systems. Do you have the strength within your coalition to do something on this plan and actually resist helping to preserve the OPG so that food production can develop especially food that is pure of GMOs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76776	Replicate reply, distinguished representative Marija Ilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76777	Well, Your Honor, I never do if I have some debate and I have my own opinion and I don't want to point it that way. Yours alone, your replica is politically focused, so I guess you don't expect me to go into the analysis of everything the Kukuriku Coalition has told, wrote or made any decisions so far. To replicate this way through what I represent, which is the production of healthy food. Do you think there are no people in the Kukurik coalition who think healthy? Do you think all the evil in this country came from this Kukuriku coalition? Don't forget that 23 years behind us we've spent. So if you're looking for the culprit, then you're looking for the '90s and so far here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76778	We've exhausted the list of respondents to the debate and the list of replicas and responses to the replica. No final address. We'll vote when the voting conditions are met. Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on genetically modified organisms, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 645. The debate is closed. I am giving the final draft of the law to vote at the same time, and I am also warning here that the adoption of the law requires a majority of the votes of all MPs within the meaning of Article 252. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Please make a statement. Who's for the final bill? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes of 77 votes in favour, 20 votes against and 1 abstention has been passed by the Law amending the Law on genetically modified organisms in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76781	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Therefore, the proposed amendments amend the provisions which mention the jurisdiction of the State Inspectorate and are aligned according to the newly created division, so jurisdiction in the conduct of official labelling controls, noting therefore that the labelling of GM food and GM food is taken over by the Ministry of Agriculture, so food quality inspection. Control of genetically modified food, i.e. food for animals, continues and is the responsibility of the Ministry of Health, i.e. the Ministry of Agriculture. In the Ministry of Health under the jurisdiction of the Sanitary Inspectorate, 50 controls were carried out in the period from January to March this year and no positive results were found. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76782	Thank you. Does anyone want to take a word on behalf of the working bodies? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Djurdzica Sumrak. ... Excuse me, Branko Box. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here's a colleague of the Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76783	Mr. Deputy, that is, Deputy President of the Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here at the last session of the Ministry of Agriculture we have received one material that has been prepared for a Council of Ministers meeting that has already been held on 24 March and I will quote you one item that has seemed directly related to this topic. And it has been said that at this meeting, ministers will be discussed among others on international agricultural trade. He says, "The most important negotiations are currently being conducted with the United States and should result in the largest area of free trade in the world. The European Union and the United States have changed their initial trade liberalisation bids and have proved to be unbalanced because the EU offers greater liberalisation than the US." I repeat, more liberalisation than the United States. The Ministry of Agriculture participated in the development of a common EU position in the part of the proposal for trade conditions for agricultural and food products. The problem with the negotiations with the United States is great secrecy, and it's also very symptomatic, right, where it specifically says it insists on the United States that we are not able to have an open discussion in our public about the possible positive and negative effects of a future contract with the United States. I personally think it has something to do with this subject that's on the agenda. In the previous debate, we also heard a lot about increasing the disease in the opinion of individual experts caused by GMO food. In a prominent magazine, I will not mention the name of course, in September 2012, the work of a team of scientists from a French university that proves that GM food is extremely dangerous. So, the study was conducted on rats, it lasted 2 years, unlike the previous ones, on the basis of which GMOs were declared harmless, which lasted only 3 months. So the results show that GM corn can cause tumors and shorten lifespan. In rodents, mortality was twice as high and renal and hepatic impairment was five times the average. Based on studies conducted in Italy whose results have also been published, it has been established that GM corn-fed rodents have experienced an immune system disorder. Russian scientists also published the sensational results of a 2-year study two years ago during which it was found that hamsters fed GM food in the third generation had completely lost their reproductive ability. Strange are the ways of food, and without getting into the details, we can conclude that we don't really know what we're eating. And back in the '70s, Kissinger put the whole philosophy together in one sentence, control the oil, and you'll control the country, control the food, and you'll control the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76784	Thank you. We've got two lines reported. Drazen Djurovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76785	Thank you. A colleague when you were talking about scientific research and the consequences of GMO food, there are other things that might work here, so I would depend on it. The fact is that many or dare I say most of the events at molecular level are physiologically unknown. The smaller part that we know is happening, and based on various models, we are actually using today as a set of knowledge that we have about how human biology works or on the other hand about how some medicines work and change that biology in order to treat it. It's a very similar thing when it comes to physiology itself. So about the physiology of the diet itself we know much less than the physiology of actually human events and a good part of the effects of actually such genetically modified food no one can with certainty project what is going to happen to people over the next 10, 20, 30 or 50 years when this food and the interest and pressure of industry is amazing that this food actually rises in constant human use. There are no almost objective and relevant research that would indeed be independent, as unfortunately there are no in other accompanying industries where big money is spinning and directly reflected in human health, such as the drug industry. It is a fact that we cannot practically escape today, or my opinion is better said.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76786	Thank you. A colleague's answer to the box, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76787	Thank you. My colleague Đurović, the truth is what you said when you mentioned scientific research. One of the great inventions of a company, a seed called this has a strange terminator, gives sterile fruit, why? So that whoever sows that seed again in large quantities would buy a new seed again because the old seed cannot reproduce, this is enough to say as far as this area went or on the other hand is also the fact that never in the history of the world is so great a power when it comes to food production was not in such a small number of hands or heads.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76788	Thank you. Branko the Hill of Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76789	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Box, you said they were strange food routes. Yeah, well, it's probably been strange these last three months when we probably weren't in control because it took us three months to come to the assembly benches one sentence of amending the law to control any import of GMO food. I'm not sure about the strangeness, I'm not sure that it took so long, I can't help but think that it's been three months, because in those three months, it would be very interesting to see what was imported into Croatia, whether there was an opportunity to import GMO seeds, GMO cattle, it's probably, and then we'll be surprised again what's happening to us, why we're failing agriculture, why we're failing production and why we're becoming an ecologically unclean country.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76790	Thank you. A colleague's answer to the box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76791	Well, colleague Hrg, when you mention food control, you're right. A study published in a single daily newspaper in Croatia has shown me that 96% of products are never controlled. Here's the percentage that speaks for itself enough and how much space there is there for manipulation anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76792	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB Club Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76793	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. I haven't actually thought about it, but my colleague encouraged me to ask if this is what the Ministry of Agriculture has to do with it, even though you're the Deputy Minister at the Ministry of Health. If we transfer all these GMOs to the control and supervision of the Ministry of Agriculture, I don't know why there's no minister here, someone from the Ministry of Agriculture, so I don't know what it's about, who's in charge of the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Health. It might be a good idea for someone from the Ministry of Agriculture to be there because it's just that we're transferring control to the Ministry of Agriculture. But good. When you buy or as your colleague Hrg has said these three months of doubt so it could be called for a short time, so it could be called three months without the supervision of the imports of GMO seeds or cattle feed, three months of doubt then you have a guide to such seed that only certain pesticides, herbicides, insecticides can be used and you can use it precisely. Why do you say that, because that same company that manufactures that seed also has its own pesticide that treats the plant that grows up. If you happen to have any supplies or use another pesticide then your crop will dry off. It is interesting, therefore, for a chemical and GMO industry such as a very aggressive and pharmaceutical industry and this GMO industry. Those are the two most aggressive ones I would say to the economics of today, branches and industries in the world, networked, corporately organized and very pervasive to say aggressive. He said here, a colleague, control the oil, but it's still been given before, today it's going to be, now there's going to be water, one that's going to be like oil, so you're going to control the country, you're going to control the food, and you're going to control people. Why am I saying that? So it is not only that in some studies it has been confirmed that, which are accurate and exact, different ways of action for GMOs, starting with here and mentioning reproduction, reproductive organs and that in the third generation. What that would mean for Croatia, we can't even imagine. Allergies and an increased number of allergies in Croatia, but also everywhere in the world by 50%, we can best learn from the works of allergologists, whether pediatricians, or interns. An increased number of neoplasms, immune system diseases, autoimmune diseases that are of unknown origin according to medical codification, hence unknown origin that we don't even speak. Currently, although we are just adopting or implementing EU regulation No. 1830 of 2003, so after 11 years, negotiations are now being held on the platform, the joint platform of the United States and the EU on the application of GMOs, the use of GMOs. It will mean if it remains with what we have learned and what can be learned from circles and parliamentarians or by the European Commission, which is even more liberal than the United States, that you or any of us will not be able to sow some homemade varieties of corn in order to have for domestic needs, one... as you would say in Bosnia, that is a thousand square meters, so that you will have for... if you want the noodles, palent, whatever you want to say, for your own needs, for your taste, taste, whatever you want. So, according to this platform, there will be a strict measure of the sowing of those varieties, as the EU and America agree. Although Croatia is somehow on the verge of still our peasants resist some measures and in various ways they gain, it will not have the opportunity to develop and, as someone here has said, a variety of species of plants, so either... species will not have the opportunity or will be wiped out as a kind of local old variety or species from use. So, what are they offering us according to this regulation and according to what else is going to come, so this GMO firm, the GMO industry? So they offer us when you buy seeds or these three months you have seeds that are 20 kuna cheaper on the market than any other domestic, to say the variety. And then a normal peasant in this situation where, of course, he's going to count, especially if there's a bigger area to what he needs and how much he's going to save, supposedly save on that seed. Well, then he writes fine in a guidebook that he must, with pesticides to spray that crop, and that's a pesticide again, the manufacturer is the same company that manufactures and seeds. And on that as in the inn, there's not much profit on food, but there's a drink. So here and here, there's not much profit on the seed, but it's going to earn on a pesticide that's specific to that particular seed. And that's how it goes, it's a tiny little scam. There, therefore, will be the competent Ministry of Agriculture in the future, although I say here we have a Mr. Honored Deputy Minister of Health to interpret, therefore, these amendments to the law, and in connection with inspection supervision of GMOs. And not only that, but here in this part of the law and on the labelling of GMOs, so on the way Europe does it, as it does, as it does, here, and so we apply these European measures, and soon here's how the negotiations are done, we may have to change these laws and legal forms again this year, that is, this set of laws regarding GMOs if and when, not when, but when America, the United States and Europe, the EU achieves this platform, its agreement, when we no longer have the opportunity to sow their varieties for their own needs, but that it will be a strict control to apply GMOs and from the world, I won't say... how they like to say it, but from those who are very powerful, very powerful and capital-supped producers of GMOs as well as those from the pharmaceutical industry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76794	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Drazen Djurovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76795	Thank you. You have noticed, therefore, that here is an article of the GMO Act, which reads that by supplying GMOs or products containing, or consisting of, or originating from GMOs at retail level, a competent inspection of the quality of food of the central authority of the State Administration for agricultural affairs, and so far has the State Inspectorate and I am also asking myself, if this is the case for the supervision of GMOs to be left to a particular body of agricultural affairs, why is the applicant here with us today, the Deputy Minister of Health or Health? It's really not clear to me whether it's logically speaking, is it because he himself thinks that this issue is actually more reflective and governmental to human health than to Croatian agriculture or is there to actually create confusion among those who see it, that they think that we are actually dealing with human health issues rather than the interests of some groups in the production of GMOs. On the third hand and the question why is the issue of human health through GMOs left to the Ministry of Agriculture, and why the Ministry of Health did not extend jurisdiction, in fact, over the control of the regularity and of this food, and not only the question of its regularity but what is much more important to all of us is the question of the impact of this food on human health and the consequences that these food can have on human health.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76796	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76797	Well, co-worker Djurovic, it is entirely independent or illogical that here are these legal proposals to say to us, reads here Mr. Cesarik Deputy Minister of Health, so it could somehow be presented because of the ratings and Croatian citizens as the late Ivan Tomic said, "Is it a big scam for little Mark."so when he's transferring games to Dinah on the radio. But it's really strange, and I don't think anyone in Europe would mind if this legal proposal and taking over everything that produces GMOs affecting the human organism deals with and whoever's in charge of it is either the Ministry of Health or possibly its inspection or whatever body you want. Well, we mentioned the Department of Public Health a little while ago, so I guess he's nothing to do with the Ministry of Agriculture but the Ministry of Health, I guess. So that doesn't make any sense, but here's how it is presented to us, and at first we didn't even notice it until later we consulted a little bit, and this is how we admire it all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76798	Thank you. Branko the Hill of Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76799	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic does not surprise me that you have asked as a question why one ministry is proposing, and the other one is taking over, and there is no such thing. This country doesn't know who's proposing or who's supposed to be doing what. It's perfectly normal, the only danger is that that's the way it's going to be in implementing this law, and then you won't know who's responsible, who's the one who's supposed to do something. You know, this series that's popular in the neighboring state of "Mad Confused Normal" is a sweet mother for our country right now. They're functionally compatible and very well functioning unlike us. But what I really wanted to say was why I answered the most. So I asked for a little advice and the opinion of the people from this profession so a doctor of science, a veterinary profession, told me this: I find it impossible to define a competent body for the introduction of GMOs. ... The capacitation of people working on these jobs is not at the level that they can decide on experiments in GMOs in nature. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're just going to give power to someone who won't actually be able to implement anything, that's the answer to what's going on here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76800	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76801	Thank you very much. Here's your comment on the government's work I wouldn't, you said it all. But what you received was a letter from one of the experts, and we said that they are sometimes contradictory, however, because it raises doubts that the inspection of the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Agriculture is deciding not only on the supervision of GMO seeds, crops and foods of GMOs. A much larger segment is located precisely in action, as a consequence of these GMO organisms on the human organism. And about the effects of GMOs on human organisms is exactly, can be cared for and somehow belongs, mostly belongs to the Ministry of Health, and certainly not to the Ministry of Agriculture because we, a fellow veterinarian, a doctor of veterinary as well as my wife, but I don't know how this Ministry of Agriculture and veterinary doctors, and agronomists will take care of human health. Or they think we're all something else together and just transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76802	Thank you. This is what we've ended the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76803	Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law implementing Regulation No 1829/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 September 2003 on genetically modified food and feed for animals and Regulation (EC) No 1830/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 September 2003 on the traceability and labelling of genetically modified organisms and traceability of food and food for animals produced from genetically modified organisms amending and supplementing Directive 2001/18/EC, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 642. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please plead. The adoption of this law requires a majority of the votes of all representatives of the Croatian Parliament within the meaning of Article 252. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote is 77 votes in favour and 22 against Law P.Z. No. 642 in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76804	We continue with: - Final proposal of the Act amending the Law on the Implementation of Regulation (EC) No 258/97 of the European Parliament and of the Council since 27 January 1997 on novel food and food ingredients, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 647 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia of the Act you received. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You've received reports. We have the Deputy Minister with us on behalf of the Proposer. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76805	Thank you very much. Therefore, the proposed amendments amend the provisions which mention the jurisdiction of the State Inspectorate and bring it into line with the newly created division, as already stated on three occasions. And the power to carry out official controls in the field of food labelling is now assumed by the Ministry of Agriculture and the inspection of food quality. Therefore, this control in the field of labelling has not been in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health before. So this division is divided, it's not good for someone to control and control the marking. Therefore, you have the possibility of other services controlling your work. I note again that the Ministry of Health has not broken control of either genetically modified organisms or food or new food. So, the Ministry of Health, the sanitary inspection has been regularly conducted so far, and will exercise control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76806	Thank you, too. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76807	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. If anyone in this House was talking about food, it must have been me and they told me today you haven't mentioned milk in replicas or debates yet. Of course I'm mentioning it now, and I'm sorry, I didn't, I didn't report on that issue from some personal promotion, but simply out of the need to point out the difficulties in agriculture mainly in dairy and livestock. And it was the best comment before a certain time that my debates made me laugh many times when I was talking about milk but says now those who might have laughed should cry. And in truth, I hold that that's the case. Of course I was talking about the need to produce healthy food. But in this it is about the need for this food production exists in the government programme, this government where it says that there is a need to produce sufficient quantities to feed its own population, for sufficient quantities for the food industry and, of course, to preserve rural space. A short time ago, a delegation from the Committee on Agriculture of Turkey was visiting this House that said how much they invest with this particular goal of maintaining these rural areas of protection of these values, and indeed, when we see our villages today, our tears are simply a sad picture. It is, therefore, necessary to talk about the sufficient amounts of food that I have said but of course the need to produce healthy food. Healthy food, therefore, is mentioned many times today by the same media sign on food. I also noticed a report a few days ago saying shocking discoveries in the food of the Department of Public Health about whose qualities were spoken here today. And in February every 10th product, every 10th food product was a health failure. Medically invalid. It's dangerous and it's alarming. It's dangerous and it's alarming. And that's why there's a note before a certain time where the state's chief inspector said it was simply from the shelves of some of our big centers so she wouldn't take any food at all. Because that's just the fact that we eat garbage a lot of times. A simple answer that speaks for itself enough. A special story is the new food, the introduction of new food and the health correctness of new food is regulated by the Food Act, the Food Act is regulated, the Law on the Implementation of this Regulation 258 and the Law on Official Controls. But it's good to remember how we heard, today we're a little about this GMO food, it's good to visit what's new food. What's new food? And he says, the new food is food and food ingredients that have not yet been used in a greater range of people who are not the result of genetic modification, which, by their composition, properties and effects, can affect the choice of diet or human health. It shall be classified in the following categories. Food and food ingredients with a new or intentionally modified primary molecular structure that does not include genetic modification. Other, food and food ingredients consisting of or are isolated from mushrooms or algae. Food and food ingredients consisting of or isolated from plants and food ingredients of isolated animals other than food and ingredients, foods obtained by traditional means of reproduction or cultivation which have been known to be safely consumed by food and food ingredients obtained by a technological production process which has so far not been used and has caused significant changes in the composition or structure of food and food ingredients which affect their nutritional value, human metabolism and levels of unacceptable substances for human consumption. I'm saying it because I see it and it's a pretty wide area, but here's the way the ministry is going on about the use of food and the placing on the market of that new food. There are 14 points that must be satisfied. 14 points, I'll just mention some that I don't list the individual. But it says, the confirmation of allergological tests in vitro, in vivo if it's food where there's a possibility of an allergy, there were speeches here today regarding this genetically modified food, too. Furthermore, the technical documentation of the production process. Therefore, a copy of the Register of Registered Objects where food is produced and the institution which has produced a certificate proving that food or food ingredient meets the criteria set out in Article 7. Regulations, etc. So these things are specific, and in these circumstances, so in terms of the change of the ministry, the formation of the ministry, more specifically, the abolition of the State Inspectorate, we can clearly ask here who will now, who will now, in this time, who will control it, who should have controlled it during these three months. They say it doesn't come to that legal void. The void, unfortunately, has come, the danger is great. The danger is great and we keep talking about healthy food, the need for healthy food, the new food, of course, has special risks. And then we're hunting for the head when it comes to the moment before the short time with aflatoxin. You remember what happened and how it was. Secondly, so you remember in one country like Germany a few years ago when the Escherichia thing, the kind of panic that started with Escherichia, you remember very well what was going on and how it was. In that sense, we hold that this situation that happened now in this time, regardless of these changes, is not allowed to be harmful, to disrupt the system of state administration, to be centralized needlessly by these services, and I think this is dangerous and that this should have been thought of. Now we're where we are, but of course for these reasons that I've talked about and the dangers that I can come from, the HDZ Club can't support these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76808	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas. Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76809	Thank you very much. Col. Milinkovic, we said in more discussions that only 6% of products on the Croatian market can be managed. The Institute of Public Health of the Republic of Croatia has found that from this weight of 6%, only 6%, 10% are invalid. So when we look at it in the total import of 15 billion foods, then from that 6%, that's 0.6% of the wrong ones. However, I am convinced and you are, since there is already production today of, say, margarine of polyvinyl mass of various kinds, so you rub the nylon bag on bread or you eat it, which has almost no different organoleptic properties, but its effect on metabolism and on everything else in the human organism is what is unexplored, and certainly cannot be that margarine the same from polyvinyl mass and milk. So the control of such products and the placing on the market of such products I think that control or control is too small to have quality food on our shelves of our departments. So it's too small and that this surveillance will be very, very scarce regardless of what you say about centralization or the Ministry of Agriculture, the inspection etc. What affects Croatian consumers the most, and the other day we were discussing consumer rights, is precisely that broad, large imports of about 15 billion kunas of food and actually half-breed or garbage.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76810	Thank you. Answer, colleague Milinkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76811	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's the data you're talking about, too much control, of course it confirms my efforts during all of these... the production needs of sufficient amounts of quality domestic food in which we were very effective, thanks to the operational programmes in cattle farming where many stables were raised. Production was up to that level, you were talking about a billion liters, and now it's halved. Meat production also fell. So it is unacceptable to bring such an important strategic branch, such as agriculture, livestock, to such a level. So the fundamental function that I was talking about in the debate is threatened, and therefore sufficient amounts of food to feed my own population, so enough for the food industry, but of course the sustainability of rural areas. Well, the Turks don't have to come here to teach us how to protect our rural areas, so these are the values we're proud of, and indeed today when we come to these sad villages, there are grounds and reasons for our tears to flow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76812	Next replica Drazen Djurovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76813	Yes, imagine fellow Milinkovic, a country, megastates like the United States can afford one agency "Food and other management" and solve both the problem of medicines and food problems and placing on the market and supervision. One small country of 4.3 million inhabitants must have a separate Agency for Medicinal Products, a separate Food Agency, every private inspection service ministry because as we cannot have an effective State Inspectorate. Well, that's a shame. Well, we're making a joke and a joke of our own. And as authorities change, that's how systems change because we can't edit our own system and ourselves. Someone thinks that changes in form will change the functioning of the system and, of course, the State Inspectorate was a good solution, much better than this. And of course, as Croatia, we must have more ministries than France, than Germany, but the United Kingdom, because yet we are mega-states compared to one French or German. Well, that's amazing stuff. And of course, then the system can't function because of these constant transitions. And let's not say that such a bad solution that they've made with these changes, the abolition of the State Inspectorate, the dispersion of inspection controls, the number of agencies, we'll have to change everything again when they fall, and we'll have to take responsibility for the management of the state again. But what you're going to do when it has to change, because this isn't going to stay this way because it's going to be dysfunctional. I assume you agree with me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76814	Thank you. Answer, colleague Milinkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76815	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, of course I agree with my colleague Đurovic, but you mentioned the agencies, the number of these agencies, but it's more effective and in that part of agriculture there's something to say. So here's the Agricultural Land Agency... now here's anticipating an amendment to the Agricultural Land Act. Why, because it happened that they weren't put into function the amount we were about to get here... to bring to function, to increase production, and now why. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because too extensive was the documentation and... We are now many of the local self-government units invited there to consult to say our remarks that are almost on the dead end. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The paying agency, so you remember how many of those barely made it through that last moment. And then it's said, you see how many opportunities we have from the European Union and for the development of rural development programs we see where it stands, and the big ones are expected. I was at a presentation at the Ministry of Economy where the theater was too small from interested consultants, people, too small, who are interested, of course, in withdrawing funds and that stands. That's what's standing there and it's not looking like it's going to be. So, of course, if it's still an agency, it needs to be effective, it needs to serve the purpose for which, and in this area, a lot of it is really wrong and of course that's why we're where we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76816	Thank you. Branko Hrg, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76817	Thank you very much. Comrade Milinovic, you said that your discussions on agriculture and the village often cause the ridicule of colleagues in the Parliament. And I'm going to say like this, that's true, but just the laugh of those who don't know how these people live and what kind of problems these people have. You were talking about healthy food in your discussion on behalf of the club and new food. So I have to say that the Croatian peasant is basically less and less allowed to produce healthy food from year to year, and when you talked about that, you asked who would actually control this new food. Probably no one, because we're going to get to the definition that a famous director said these days in a follow-up conversation that Croatia is not as poor as it is unorganized. And that's our problem. We're complicating our own lives. As Col. Djurovic spoke to himself a little while ago, we are constantly setting up some new institutions, we bind ourselves to knots, and after that, of course, whoever gets hurt, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia suffer. And so it goes from law to law, from change to change. We keep making up something new, and in the end, you don't even know who he'd call, who he'd ask, who he'd report to, who he'd end up reporting to, and who should end up with some kind of ultimate right word, some kind of final decision, and sanctioning at the end of the day some things.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76818	Thank you. Answer, colleague Milinkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76819	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Hrg, I am aware of those reactions and circumstances when my discussions on dairy, about livestock, caused a mockery. I was saying, of course, for the reason I know this problem, because I live in such an environment and I see the daily collapse of family farms, the difficulties we live with. I remember one comment that a colleague said that I was discussing, that it was a coincidence that a trip to the moon was being discussed so that I could talk about milk. Well, probably those who go up to the astronauts would have to spend the same amount of milk safely, but no, it's better that they probably use the powder there than these imports with those tanks, so it's been said in time that these are mixed. There's a mix that our milkies have turned into the milk of that imported one. Of course, it is necessary, that this is a sensitive area, that it needs to be constantly stressed, that it needs to be improved and cared for. I come from an environment that is here and in these circumstances, of course, with great mara, love, enthusiasm works and cares about milk production. It was here today about the bottle of speech. We have, we've been a tradition of growing a symental breed for over a hundred years and now we've testified. We also take concrete measures in that part. We were now hosting the establishment of the first dairy producer Drava – Sava, which could improve the area. We also offer concrete examples that could, but we expect both help and understanding at those instances that can help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76820	Thank you. And Branko Box, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76821	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Milinkovic, you were talking about food analysis and the defeating results. So, the fact is that when testing for the presence of dangerous bacteria on 240 samples, the Institute of Public Health found that it declared health failure as much as 10% of the total number of samples analysed. What does that mean in translation? It means that our control system isn't working and that if so far the State Inspectorate has been set up as it was designed, that, to expect it to be worse then with a new structure like this, it seems to me. You also mentioned healthy food and GMOs. So, the fact is that there are provisions in Croatia and the European Union on mandatory negative labelling of products containing more than 0.9% of GMOs in their composition. However, Professor Vrčak of the Faculty of Pharmaceutical Biochemistry in Zagreb says that this percentage is not scientifically established. And there's another nice sentence that speaks of GMOs, and it was said by one publicist in 2005 in a book called "The Seeds of Destroying". The spread of genetically modified crops and food around the world has caught so much momentum today that it can and must be declared a crime against humanity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76822	Thank you. Answer, colleague Milinkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76823	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I thank my colleague Box for noticing these allegations and for sure that you need to put special attention and emphasis on healthy food, on the correctness and in this Institute of Public Health we heard today and has been trained in all those segments and technical and human that it can, and can and is qualified to issue and certificate for healthy food. I also agree in this section that we have the potential to produce healthy food, but there must be clear rules in the course of the game. It can't be changed if someone decides that he knows that the rules are right today and that they won't change in a short time. We testified in this food and milk production that radicals were brought overnight by our cattlemen, dairy farmers, into unsightly difficulties. And as a result, it came to what happened, the collapse of the O.P.G., the 30,000 cows on forced slaughter, and what happens, now they say, but now we're going to suddenly give the new heifers we're going to need, of course, a credit burden. Well, it can't be solved overnight, it's a serious matter. And as for healthy food, of course, it is necessary to stress all of this that in time some of us see potential difficulties and not get into a situation when it comes, but now everyone's alarming, the headquarters agreeing to defend themselves and then it's already too late. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76824	Thank you, too. This is what we're done with the reports. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76825	Final proposal of the Act amending the Law implementing Regulation, EC No 258/97 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 January 1997 on novel food and food ingredients, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 647. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. The adoption of this law requires a majority of the votes of all representatives of the Croatian Parliament within the meaning of Article 252. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I find that most of the vote is 77 votes in favour and 22 votes against law No. 647 in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76826	We continue with - Final proposal for a law amending the Law on the Implementation of Regulation (EU) No. 528/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the making available on the market and use of biocidal products, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 649; The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received the reports at the session. We have the Deputy Minister with us on behalf of the Proposer. Deputy, here's your opening.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76827	Thank you very much. Therefore, the proposed amendments amend the provisions which mention the jurisdiction of the State Inspectorate and bring them into line with the newly established division and the competence to carry out official controls on biocidal products is assumed by the Ministry of Health as the basic holder of the legislation in the field of biocidal products. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76828	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76829	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister. I've been saying a lot today, but this is also an interesting topic, perhaps such a substantial change, but it requires the same attention for me and that we're familiar. Because we always talk, and within every law, it repeats itself many times to protect people's lives and health. It's always in every law of this kind of character, and it's unnecessarily necessary to stress the need, therefore, that this is necessary and important and important, that this is also a priority in some way. But, of course, you need to know what these biocidal products are and maybe various chemicals. And many times we come to certain misunderstandings that we simply don't know. So I would say that, by definition, biocidal products of the active substance and preparations containing one or more active substances are made in the form in which they are delivered to the user whose purpose is to destroy, deter, make harmless and prevent or control any harmful organism in a chemical or biological way. And the harmful organism is any organism whose presence is undesirable or which has a harmful effect on people, their activities, products used in animals and the environment. This confirms what I was saying that this harmful organism can certainly cause human health damage and that, of course, it is also necessary, although there is a large area of use of these biocidal products, there are always certain dilemmas about the protection of plant protection products. And of course, there is a broad area where it can be applied and it is regulated, therefore, by this regulation of which Mr. Deputy Minister spoke, and this Regulation therefore regulates the placing on the market of biocidal products used for the protection of humans, animals, materials or objects from harmful organisms such as pests or bacteria, the activity of the active substances contained in the biocidal product. And that regulation is aimed at improving the functioning of the biocidal products market in Europe and all of this was in some way clearly placed and important and important in terms of what I said. And now it comes under these circumstances that we've been talking about all morning, so because of the change in the formation of the ministry's cleavage, it comes in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health. Which, of course, is good, but again, there's this gap that I was talking about, legally or whatever we want, where incidents of this kind or that kind of thing could happen again, of course, with adverse consequences. And in that sense, again, we warn that such experiments are not welcome, and for that reason we cannot support this change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76830	Thank you, too. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76831	Final proposal of the Act amending the Law implementing the EU Regulation No. 528/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the making available on the market and use of biocidal products, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 649. The debate on the final proposal of the Law is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. It also requires a majority of the votes of all representatives of the Croatian Parliament within the meaning of Article 252 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Does anyone have any abstentions? There is. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes were 78 votes in favour of, 22 votes against, 1 abstention passed by Law No, P.Z. 649 in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76832	We continue with - Final bill amending the Law on transparency of public funds flows, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 640; Proposer of Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the Government, Deputy Minister Boris Lalovac is with us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76833	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Very briefly, the Law on transparency of public funds flows was passed in the middle of last year in this High House in order to comply with directives, i.e. the Commission on transparency of financial relations between Member States and public entrepreneurs. The Directive stressed that the transparency of funds must be ensured, i.e. the accounting separation of those funds coming from public sources or from the budget or other works of public sources. What these changes are all about is that it is extended for a particular group of public entrepreneurs or entrepreneurs who have special powers that they must lead this separate accounting and for those undertakings that have public authority and not only to receive certain public funds and other changes relate to compliance with the Criminal Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76834	Thank you, Deputy Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76835	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, according to one technical law which should offer clearer and more transparent management of the funds obtained through the exercise of activities given to certain companies on the basis of public authority. However, what this law lacks in view of these amendments in Article 1 is, frankly, I was expecting a list of what companies they are. The other thing is, I don't understand why we're talking all the time about the bill if it would be a more logical thing to be a sub-account and that analytically in accounting these revenues and expenditures are based on that sub-account of water in particular and that they can be seen and on the other hand, when a consolidated financial report is made for one company, that's because one other question is being asked. Therefore, the logical thing is that, in particular, the water and incomes and expenditures charged by that part of the company for which the public authority was granted for a simple reason that it should not allow someone to gain extra profit because if someone is based on income and expenditure on certain transactions based on the revenue of the state budget or charges revenue on the basis of the rights of public authorities to acquire an unwarranted high profit, then the logical thing is that he charges services to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and to the companies unjustly high and that he has earned a profit based on it. So it makes a lot more sense to me that we want to see it. Second thing, why did I say the list? So because there are several companies in the Republic of Croatia that are extremely high in income and are privately owned and have received some powers, above all we talked about on the Committee on Finance, there are also certain companies that have the status of associations that have public authority and therefore make very high incomes. It's some kind of auto-moto society and stuff. So that's one thing. The second thing is, there are a lot of state-owned public companies that have the status of institutions and have public authority and have very high incomes. Because in the past few years and during the past government and during this government, there has been talk about how some parafiscal burdens should be lifted and, above all, they relate to public enterprises that are in a certain way institutions, have certain public powers and therefore charge extremely high incomes. And now look at what's going on, what's most attractive, in fact, unfortunately, in a negative sense, is the most attractive increase in water prices for Croatian citizens, an economy of 1.4. So if you look at what's been said about the government over the past few months then it's been said for a year that the parafiscal burdens of certain state-owned enterprises have been reduced. Yes, the parafiscal burdens of the Croatian Waters for Business have been reduced but have increased by the basis of certain legal changes in the fees paid by all users, so all those who have a water meter and use water and, therefore, practically, by reducing parafiscal charges to Croatian waters, thus allowing them to earn money again. Honestly speaking to those who pay for it all together, no one asked them if they wanted it or they didn't want it, they just had to pay for it. And that amount is far greater than this amount that we want to regulate by this law. That's why I say it would be good because of this High House, because of the Croatian public that we have cited which companies have such powers, which are companies that receive money from the state budget and to see what the size of the funds is, so what is the amount, then this amendment would probably look quite different because as far as I know these companies, both Croatia's forests and Croatia's waters and we can say even in a certain way and HEP are not on this list. They have a special story. And when you look at them, the state has given them both a monopoly and certain powers, and when you look at their total income, it's almost 20 billion kuna. Maybe I'm out of line for a billion, two, and we honestly say that companies that are given certain powers need to keep a special account, and they need to run it for reasons that they don't charge 100 if they can do it for 50 because it doesn't make sense that someone with a basis for 30 or 40 percent of their total income is a profit. And in my view, first of all, this law is because in a certain way it regulates the price, but I say this is far more important to me in public enterprises because when you look at what Croatian waters are doing, then you will see that they have received very public authority. When you look at how much they spend budget money because practically if you give someone the opportunity to pay some kind of fee or some kind of tax, we're practically giving him a certain income from a state budget if we're talking about the Fiscal Responsibility Act. He based it on certain public works, so he reflects some public facilities and we say, I think they should be found in this particular part of the team more than there have been many calls about some future status of Croatian Waters, that someone wants to privatise water and this and that, however, they should only be defined as companies for a simple reason to run their financial bookkeeping as companies, not as institutions. And so, as a club, we will support this law because we have no reason not to support it because every transparency in spending public funds is welcome and simply in this process should always work because it is never finished, it is never finished and what seems to be done automatically today, perhaps 2, 3 or 6 years ago it was practically impossible to do, for this is perhaps the most obvious example of the Law on the financing of political parties because let's say that someone 7 or 8 years ago sent an inspection from the IRS that would be blasphemy, today it's the most normal thing. So certain processes simply need to be matured. And the other thing, when we speak to the public, I simply can't look back on some of the acts that we have brought to this House of Commons, which is the Law on the implementation of the state budget where we have defined the amount of public debt. This amount, in relation to what we have defined, of the Law on the implementation of the state budget, is exceeded, and that is the same thing that transparency says. So, the HDZ club will support this bill, but we believe that the proposer should take these things into account, first of all, that some public firms in the Republic of Croatia who have received public authority are turning nearly 20 billion kunas a year and it would certainly be in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to see how much profit and how it is made out of these funds and whether, say, those funds, especially those that were flooded two months ago, whether those funds paid by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the businessmen are used in an adequate manner and whether these funds could be used more adequately and better, based on certain changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76836	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76837	Thank you very much. You spoke about the announcement of the state budget for last year and you said about items that might be better and more useful to use as you yourself said. So I just wanted to point out that in this implementation of the state budget for the first 6 months of last year, 2013, you have an item with Croatian Waters 100 thousand euros for education, 750 thousand kuna for education. Watch out for education. Later in the state budget for this year, the item disappeared, everyone must have been educated or the debate of our parliamentary representatives, opposition regarding those items was observed, so they somehow redistributed it to material expenditures, official travels, etc. So no more, education's over in 2013, no one's going to be educated anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76838	Thank you. Answer, fellow Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76839	Yes, my colleague Grubisic, which is why I said that perhaps the legislator of this law should think very much about putting these public enterprises into this too because it simply needs to ask the question whether these funds that are collected are adequate, whether they are based on both citizens and the economy or simply if there are any strategic projects such as irrigation, whether they will be financed from other funds. But simply no one, this transparency of the movement of public money goes towards seeing where and how the money of those citizens is spent, through those companies that have received public authority. Therefore, if it is for private companies that have received public authority, then it should also apply to the state. At least it should be worth the future because I say public and transparency is a process that is constantly being upgraded, it has never "and now we've done it, it's okay", it's simply something to keep working on because certain processes that need to be controlled are constantly happening. So I say some things that seem normal today, maybe a few years ago, would have been blasphemy if someone had mentioned them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76840	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, Kresimir Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76841	Thank you very much, Deputy President. Dear Assistant Minister of Finance with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law amending the Law on the Transparency of Public Assets flows with a final draft law and this is very important. It is important for Europe to make us transparent, to spend state resources in a transparent way, just as European funds are spent slowly in the Republic of Croatia and will come in the coming time. Looking at this particular proposal, actually this is the final draft of the law, then this extension, it is good to expand because just looking at the Republic of Croatia, but looking at our public finances and watching what happened in the past time that often there were no excuses, that funds and spending were not intended, which is often in the State audits and audit reports, we had the opportunity to read, listen in parliamentary debates, and it should be prevented. Because it's also good to increase violations, to punish those who don't run public finances neatly. But here's my question today how many of those who haven't used the exact state funds in that way so much as the funds that were paid into their accounts, which didn't purposely finance what they were meant to do? So, please, here's Mr. Lalovec to present the number so far of those who haven't properly serviced their obligations or those who haven't spent their resources. I know it's business here, and I know it's local and regional administration units, and I know you have a list, so you could deliver the list here today to the Croatian Parliament, as well as a list of those who have not respected the legal solution so far. A little while ago, a colleague Shuker mentioned water, he mentioned water companies. Waters are investing a lot and doing projects, and I believe they're using funds for purpose, but here's a topic that might interest me, but also other citizens of ours, the question of one ZAMP. You were just talking about parafiscal intrusions, a lot of them in the Republic of Croatia. So it would be nice to look at these reports in the Croatian Parliament, see if the funds have been spent, so according to all reports, but first and foremost, it is necessary to provide a list of all those who have the obligation. We had in the past and non-intentional spending of funds when we talk about both shipbuilding and HZ, but we also know that by means of these funds in the past to a good extent and buying social peace, and that the reports that indicated that the funds were being spent were not intended. But what matters to our fellow citizens is that the consumer basket is getting smaller and smaller. And even yesterday's increase isn't first April, but really, the increase in the day before yesterday, the increase in prices, i.e. Refunds for the use of water of 110%, from 1.35 to 2.85. It will certainly reflect on every water consumer in the Republic of Croatia and will certainly feel it in our pocket. However, when it comes to the use of these funds, it is often pointed out that it will use developmental proposals and projects in the future, but by looking at the reports of Croatian Waters then we can conclude that it will likely be used for current credit arrangements and those projects that are already funded for which we cannot service the obligation at this time. But looking at the Republic of Croatia, looking at our debt not from month to month, but from day to day dizzyly where we came to today to 220 billion kuna, then I think it's very important that all guarantees, but also contracts are recorded so that we don't come out of the closet again one day and manage our finances neatly. And looking at the Republic of Croatia, looking at the volume that we spend on interest every year, it is growing, we can say that we are entering debt slavery, and probably the reason one part and the unintended spending of funds in the past, but also non-recognition in our public finances of all those I would say guarantees, and today contracts that are not recorded and relating to the future period. It is therefore important to present that volume, too, and it is important to list all those who use these funds, but it is also important to record all the contracts that will apply to future periods. Just because of transparency, but not just because of Europe, it is because of us who live in Croatia and who want Croatia to be able to serve your obligations in the coming time. Looking at this proposal of the Law amending the Law on Transparency of the HDSSB Club will support this proposal because it is important for us to be transparent and it is important for us that no one does sanctions and those who work and do not spend funds intended to sanction themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76842	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76843	Thank you very much. You mentioned your colleague Bubalo's water use fee. So, over the past four years, the one, the water fee or whatever it was called, has been reduced twice, and it has been reportedly pompously that the Croatian economy has disbursed by 250 million. Yes, we relieved the Croatian economy as well as through health contributions we said that we had unloaded the Croatian economy and then introduced VAT to the citizens. And now, according to the exact same pattern, we have unloaded the Croatian economy with one parafiscal charge, but that is why we have added the kuna to every citizen of the Republic of Croatia and how long it is already going. And is that a discharge or is that not a discharge? It would be fairer to say that Croatia's waters are entering such and such projects, and for that basis they need so much and so much financial resources. That's why I said they should be incorporated into this law, that's why. Because when you look at the list that this law applies to, you would see that those who practically have public authority, and that's a few state-owned enterprises, who, to whom this law refers, are a minimum amount compared to the twenty billion turned by state-owned companies. But I say the freshest example unfortunately in the negative is this fee for using water that came into force 01.04. And as for guarantees, I must tell you that all the guarantees that the Republic of Croatia has issued you have in your report on the implementation of the budget and in every budget, because any guarantee that has not been adopted in this way in the Croatian Parliament cannot be protested tomorrow can not be so. So, as far as the guarantee is concerned, and the fact that someone forgets to write it there says it's skeletons, it's another pair of shoes. That's why the other day when I was discussing that HH guarantee, I was saying if we were to look at it in such a way that it was some kind of skeleton in the future, but for this part of the public enterprises, this Law on the transparency of public funds should certainly be entered, because then some things would look quite different.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76844	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76845	Here's a fellow Shucker you've had plenty of replicas, I'll try to answer even though it should take more than two minutes. But looking at Croatian waters, the fee was raised last year, but also this year. So two increases have prices in short time of year and a few days, which certainly will, will feel every consumption of water in the Republic of Croatia. But what we are predicting in the next time, watching as Croatia's waters are in debt and watching as they invest, I'm afraid for ten years that there will be no April joke, that the price of one bottle of Jane will be about as priced as when we release water from the pipe. Therefore, I need to be reasonable about this borrowing, given that, those funds that we get from the European Union multiply or spend them without multiplication. But you mentioned health care a little while ago, we were against the reduction from 15 to 13 is clear that there was no study, there was no clear vision and this is showing up with this increase in health from 13 to 15 and 4 plus that interest rate of 6 billion kuna is lost. And no one is responding to the Republic of Croatia because it went into a reckless decision and because six billion kunas we're in charge of. Because as Croatia is in debt, it seems no longer interested in anyone. The important thing is that we can still be in debt, even though our credit rating is garbage, so it's only a matter of days when we stop being in charge of the European or world market at all. When we talk about closet skeletons, it's important that everyone not only guarantees but also contracts relating to the future period show up, record and we have a situation that this isn't happening today. So we'll have the skeletons out of the closet again and that's what's not good. This clearly speaks of the intransparency of our finances.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76846	Thank you. Drazen Djurovic replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76847	Thank you. You mentioned exactly that parafiscal burden of kuna and half per cubic cubic of water consumed as imposed on all consumers on April 1st. It was amazing to explain the Minister of Agriculture two nights ago in a central diary when he said the average four-member family spent 10 cubic metres of water and that this was an average increase of 15 kuna per month. According to his untrue claim, the family article shows that 2.5 cubics are spent per month, so this is completely incorrect. So, according to the article, the family average is spent 4 to 5 cubic metres a month, among those users and these are less than all citizens who do not have an additional source of water other than that of water consumption. Therefore, it is on average consumption of 20 cubic metres for the four-member family of rising water prices by 30 kuna. If the bill was about 200 kuna, it means practically 10 to 12% increase in price. And let's not say that this parafiscal intrusion at one year draws 450 to 500 million kuna. From where? And out of spending, out of the pockets of the needy citizens and all those users. So, in one year, you pulled 450 to 500 million kunas in a fictitious way that people were supposed to spend to settle their other life needs, to buy bread, milk, meat, shoes, and so forth. Therefore, it is a direct blow to consumption. What consumption? That consumption that falls in Croatia anyway because the standard falls. So, this kind of circle of solution, not to mention saying we need it for something. So put on a parafiscal load of 100 kuna a month, define and repay your debts. It is not a question of what we need but of what is right and what is durable for Croatian citizens. These are no longer sustainable, and this is the number of executions that Croatian citizens have today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76848	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76849	Thank you very much. A colleague of Djurovic's, the price has been increased by a kuna and a half, but what is evident is that our citizens are spending less and less water because people are saving. So when you see them saving on whether to wash their hands or not to wash their hands, it is a problem that clearly indicates that in Croatia bells ring big. Four hundred thousand unemployed, a large number who work and don't get paid. Of course, they can't even serve the question of paying the water price from every month when the bills come to them. Therefore, it is also evident every month that the number is increasing to account performance, which clearly indicates that the decline of standards is reducing the consumer basket. But what's important to us is that these funds are being used for purpose. But they are also multiplied by the European Union's funds. What we can say for the price of water, the price of water grew last year, but also this year. But looking at the Croatian Waters report, the price will rise again next year and you simply have a situation where wages fall, prices are rising and the consumer basket of our citizens is getting smaller, and this is a clear sign that there is no clear strategy in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76850	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Croatian Labourists-Party Zlatko Tušak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76851	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Croatian Labour Labour Labers will support amendments to the law on transparency of public funds flows primarily because any transparency and improvement of transparency goes in favour of public spending of public funds and in the interest of the citizens of this country. But there is also one question that I would like to answer and in some way the practice that is happening in our House, and that is the question when and when we passed this Law at the end of the 5th month or the beginning of the 6th month, the Law had all 11 articles somewhere, and then it was said that the full transposition of this Law is in accordance with a directive which obliges the transparency of spending money on the European Commission, the European Union. Then this 11 - article Law, I simply ask myself a question, if it is fully transposed then in the Law of the Directive, how can such failures happen to us to go here after less than a year of amending the law because of certain ambiguities? I think it is first irresponsible when accessing certain laws, especially when given in an explanation that the directives are fully transposed. Because what does that mean? This means that the directive is not fully transposed. And now that we are talking about transparency, then this part of the law is primarily due to national transparency, so is transparency to the Council of the European Union. What does that mean? This means that we had to accept certain provisions and certain rules relating to the spending of public funds in a way that they were controlled. Because so far, we've been acting and we know that the means of purpose have been spent somewhere completely different for pay or for other purposes, which was irresponsible behavior. And what kind of transparency do we have? This law is in transparency where we have a commitment to the European Union, and what obligation we have to our citizens. This is what we were talking about earlier today, the predecessors were talking about raising the price of water, business and spending on the resources of certain companies that are of public interest and who serve the citizens. They send their accounts regularly to citizens, and citizens who are jobless cannot pay, behind this go the executions, those citizens who are in such a situation that no one can protect them, and these companies are heavily protected, and with their transparency because what they say is transparency is the greatest guarantee that corruption does not occur, that there are no illegal shops and that there is no uncontrollable spending of public funds. We don't have that transparency on us. For example, Slovenians have on their website, I think it's called a supervisor and everyone there is data on all the costs of all the public enterprises, especially those that are of interest to citizens and any transaction can be seen, any payment, while here we have such data difficult to get to. There is a lot of data that simply or specifically needs to be asked or has to be prayed to simply come to them. For example, we also had a speech yesterday on pre-departure proceedings and we simply cannot get this information as far as it has been done in the pre-fashion proceedings came into the budget of the Republic of Croatia, how much it has been charged according to the completed settlements in the pre-departure procedure, how much funds were lost and forgiven on this basis. Of course these are data that are very interested in our citizens. Of course, even here when the predecessors said that in this law we should have had a list of the companies to which it applies and then we draw some attention to that part. We have the Public Procurement Act, and we have reduced that part of the possibility of a direct contract, and now the question is, how transparent this is because without this transparency clearly, there is always someone who will take advantage of such a situation. And that's why, with this part that changes this law only in the technical part and what I said Croatian Labourists have nothing against it, we think it's ultimately an improvement. But one warning, that frequent amendments to the law are practically creating one legal uncertainty, not only in this law, because this law is only a small part of this, but in the multitude of other laws that investment will then come to Croatia because of the uncertainty of changes because they do not know what tomorrow awaits them, what legal provisions will be. And let's give ourselves once in a way to be wise, to approach the amendments to certain laws in a more quality way, based on the arguments, based on the facts examined, based on a quality public debate, and then we adopt laws, those that will be in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76852	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76853	Thank you very much. Dude, you were talking about public procurement, so I'm gonna start over again. In fact, it is interesting public procurement in the Republic of Croatia which is therefore the Central Public Procurement Office, and when you look at the budget rebalancing then you will see that the budget rebalancing provides for twice the funds that are provided for the purchase of 1581 cars. Therefore, about 300 million kuna are provided for cars, and for information, information equipment purchases when you look at all ministries and agencies about 600 million kuna. It's a very interesting number and data. When you're talking about public procurement, you know that we've raised that number for a direct contract, so the possibility of a direct contract from 70,000 to 200,000 kuna, which opens up different doubts in the ability to exploit those 200,000 kunas. Furthermore, when you talk about water then you said it was, maybe I could call it another water heater in a year, just the other one because last year the price was raised by 30%, now for 1.5 kuna, and no one says that 1.5 kuna will still be paid 25% of the VAT, and then it's not 1.5 kuna per cubic metre, and the citizens to amortize it will waste all the less water, it will limit water consumption as one of my colleagues said. We also see this by the fact that consumption of detergents and soaps in the Republic of Croatia is falling. And now the other day I was washing my car in the car wash, so the one where you wash your car. A gentleman came on his bike, brought four bottles of 6 liters of water and filled them with technical water. I ask why, so he says because it's free so I can take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76854	Thank you. Time fellow Grubisic. Hey, buddy Tušak's answer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76855	Thank you. Comrade Grubisic, I completely agree with you. The price of water is increasing enormously and clearly that citizens, especially in this situation where we have one third of the citizens in the Republic of Croatia who are on the edge of poverty, are having a hard time paying these bills. It is clear that some have also used a certain situation to change the status of enterprises dealing with water distribution in a way that has led to the separation of these companies, and in that part they have imposed and raised already before this increase a certain part of the water. Of course, but it's within the jurisdiction of local self-government. But the question of water is very important, because it is necessary for basic life and if we do not take care of it, then it is difficult for our citizens to settle that part of their obligations even though they do not pay water, then they are quick to do so and there is no one else asking them. And on the other hand, I totally agree with what you said when it comes to public procurement. Public procurement must be transparent, it must be visible because it is the means of Croatian citizens and they must have insight into each kuna that is spent on something because it is the only way to combat corruption. If it will work secretly, if only after a year or two will find out what the individual funds are spent in, then clearly there are those who love to have some money nice to their fingers or to make certain things useful for themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76856	Thank you. Next is the replica Kresimir Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76857	Comrade Tušek, when you spoke about the transparency of public funds flows, you spoke about the transparency of public funds flows. Not that there are thousands of kunas or millions, there seems to be billions forgiven. But the first question is why some were privileged, so they didn't have to pay taxes for years, so the million amounts accumulated, and the second question is why there was no assessment of the risk of payment of these claims before someone was written off by pre-departure deals. If there was a risk assessment, surely one good part of the claim would be charged, but it would also be transparent. Therefore, by looking at the Law on the transparency of public funds flows, it should also be what has been written down and what some have not paid for years, and today they are laughing at those who have paid neatly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76858	Thank you. Here you go, Comrade Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76859	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bubalo, I fully agree with you when you said about transparency when it comes to pre-price settlements because clearly citizens would like to know how much money is forgiven. Because in the end, it's about the money that the citizens have singled out and they need to know. We also agree with the fact that pre-departure agreements were necessary, but the question whether in such a part through changes to the law which is twice, the regulation has been amended and based on these regulations has changed this whole law without a quality debate here in this House or a quality discussion of the profession which should have said its opinion on this law. And that's why it's very important to know how much money is forgiven or how much money has gone into the budget based on the completed pre-fashion settlements and returned. Without this transparency and this part of the pre-trial procedure comes under suspicion. And it's a very important segment, it's a huge asset. And clearly, citizens would love and need to know what it is and who it is forgiven under which conditions, and from whom it is charged.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76860	Thank you. And finally, on behalf of the promoter, Deputy Minister Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76861	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I thank you for the debate, and I agree with your, uh, part of your debate, and what I am asking is that we prepare some kind of report just about these companies that are going to be covered by this law. I agree, perhaps in an explanation, it should have given some indication of which companies it would have been. It is difficult to cite them in the law itself because the directive says that it does not refer to companies that have more than 40 million euros in turnover, i.e. about 300 million kunas or two consecutive years, so that they can be criteria from year to year depending on their business, on their incomes, someone might turn out to be able to break in so that it is difficult to define them. What's theirs, it's got certain public powers, and certainly someone should have a longer-term character. What is being imposed on me from this debate today is that we may prepare when we actually end this year, means that we prepare a report precisely on these companies to which this transparency is concerned and to see, and again it relates to what counterpart Bubalo said about the purpose of spending these funds which can be used through certain budgetary supervisions and determine whether there have been certain irregularities or not and how they are fixed. And what's very important, and you saw that the Ministry of Finance recently came out with a statement that we're bound to make sure that the deadlines are due. This is an extremely important issue and we are also talking about transparency, that we will very quickly publish not only all public companies but also the ministries and other bodies of the state administration as well as the deadlines for payments in ministries and other bodies. It also leads to this increased transparency. Here is what I accept your remarks that were in this segment, and what is also related to pre-profit settlements in this House will certainly be made by a comprehensive report with a list of all businesses. That's what this is all about, and we hope that when there's an amendment to the law that's somewhere in the fourth, fifth month that we're going to submit a full report on the effects of pre-fashion settlements that are actually talking about transparency for every company on the website of the FINA, so for every company you can see how many bodies of the state administration. So you don't have to wait for the report, you can see how much it actually looked like that restructuring model. So, for each company, currently on the website of the FINA for the bodies of the state administration, they see how much they participated in this restructuring process. However, according to the segments themselves, since the authorities of the state administration are also concerned with taxes and this part of the Fund for Development and Employment and for a certain part of the guarantees will be given through a comprehensive report in this House of Commons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76862	Thank you, Deputy Minister. We have two replicas. Goran Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76863	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Lalovec is worth every effort to shed light on the intransparent spending of state money. But they have some symptoms that point to the hotspots. If more carefully analysed, it is evident that the most non-transparent works intellectual services and the use of the intellectual services of state-owned companies and institutions using state budget funds. There's a front and marketing companies, public relations. It would be very interesting if one society with its 5.6 related companies had a billion 148, it seems to me a million kunas of traffic only revenue in a few years only on the basis of communication and marketing. How much of these funds did this group of the same ownership structures with state-owned enterprises receive? And what state-owned companies? Red light turns on when some companies have a billion and 100 million kuna income in a few years only from such activity and employ a total of 14 employees. At 14 employees a billion kuna income. That can't be transparent at all. Now, the government must be interested in who made this happen and where that money went afterwards. And most of it's with state-owned companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76864	Thank you. Answer, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76865	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I appreciate the question. I'd like to maybe get the information that the company's been working on and then actually do a certain audit. And what you said in this part of your use of intellectual services and other services related to the state budget according to the Public and Open Authority Partnership Action Plan of the Ministry of Finance participates in the fact that somewhere in 6 months, everyone who works with the State, or through a single Treasury account, will be able to enter the OIB and see how much a certain company has done business with all ministries. So, what's recorded through a single Treasury account. So it's also one step towards transparency and the use of funds that companies and how they work with the state. And regarding public companies, if you give me that information, it should also be published. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76866	Thank you. Gold shower, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76867	Thank you, Vice President. Deputy Minister, when you mentioned that we will get a report on pre-departure deals, I personally appreciate it, but I would just like to give you an example, it is a pre-profit settlement that is completed with SPAČVA where part of the property in Bjelovar for the wood industry CESMA belongs to the Croatian forests. It was supposed to continue the production there, it was about 160 workers. Meanwhile, the company and the rented space ended up in bankruptcy, workers found themselves at the Employment Office. Croatian forests called several competitions to finally be selected from the Croatian Forests at the 11th month last year by entrepreneur Jozo Kalem. My question is, I had to send an ambulance here to get the Ministry of Agriculture and Minister Jakovina's answer, what kind of contract do Croatian forests contract with an entrepreneur who was elected to this contest? It's been seven months since the workers ended up at the Employment Service. In those seven months, if these workers had worked and paid in contributions to the funds, they would have paid about 3 million kunas. Their purchasing power would be much higher and would be useful to this country through purchase and value tax. I would like to say that the public enterprise for example of the Croatian forest is untransparent, they behave irresponsiblely, and sometimes when the pre-fashion settlement ends well we have consequences that are very large. It's a question of irresponsible behavior.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76868	Thank you. Answer? Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76869	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I really can't, I don't know about the particular case, there is and there's been about 900 pre-departure deals, but what's really important is that 900 pre-price deals have passed, but unfortunately most of them, we'll see how they'll survive within the year on they've got certain not to say some kind of time-out. In my personal opinion, half of them won't make it. This is unfortunately a fact, it is unfortunately, although these financial restructuring models have passed, although one let's say the agony and works of workers working in these companies have given them a certain hope, however very difficult to obtain up to the additional capital, to the banking sector that they will give, should continue to finance these companies. The main reason is that many pre-fashion settlements, although they will end financial restructuring within a year, will be seen, we will monitor how many will survive. Unfortunately, because of the lack of additional capital for development, for investments, all of this government model that you supported, which is good, I say that a certain chance will not be successful unless we find additional sources to get these companies out to now to start working. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76870	Thank you, too. We don't have any more charges to discuss. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76871	Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on the Transparency of Public Funds, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. E. No. 640. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please raise your hand to plead who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find it unanimous, with 105 votes for PZE law no. 640, in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76872	We continue with a united discussion of four points of the agenda. I'll read them in order, but please understand if I misread an island, it's not an English speech area. - Final proposal of the Law confirming the Convention between the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Republic of Croatia on the automatic exchange of information on savings income in the form of interest payments, emergency procedures, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 643; - Final proposal of the Law confirming the Convention between the Kingdom of the Netherlands, in relation to the Caribbean part of the Netherlands (Otoks Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba) and the Republic of Croatia on the automatic exchange of information on savings income in the form of interest payments, emergency procedures, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 646; - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Convention between the Kingdom of the Netherlands, in relation to Sint Maarten and the Republic of Croatia concerning the automatic exchange of information on savings income in the form of interest payments, emergency procedures, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 641; - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Convention between the Kingdom of the Netherlands, in relation to Curacao, and the Republic of Croatia concerning the automatic exchange of information on savings income in the form of interest payments, emergency procedures, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 648; The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You've received reports. We've got the Deputy Minister with us. We don't need the introduction. Thank you, Deputy Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club Kresimir Bubalo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76873	Thank you very much. Here are four points united, several of them but the content is approximately similar. This is a confirmation of an international contract, I would say from several of these islands, islands, but it is about important information that by looking at the 2003 European directive, it means 48, that EU members are very concerned about how much they have savings, how much interest they have, where it saves savings, and what is most important that the income they make from saving is called interest to tax them. We have in Croatia in recent years the growth of non-residents saving in the Republic of Croatia, and it is certainly a figure that is very important because often when that number of savings is removed in the Republic of Croatia, our fellow citizens often think that all Croats are saving. No, you have a good share of non-residents saving in Croatia because the interest incomes were quite high in the past years and that motivated them to just save in the Republic of Croatia. But the second question is also what is often heard within the Kukuriku coalition whether property should be taxed or not, whether real estate or savings income should be taxed but not all of those European countries, including the Kingdom of the Netherlands, but also others not only watch whether they are covered by these taxes and see that someone does not escape them and that Croatia has entered the EU in 1.7.2013 and we have an obligation to deliver exactly those reports. These reports will probably be annual and I expect that part of us to be serving, but what is important is that in Croatia there is no taxation of exactly savings income. The income from savings and by looking at the assets being put into office, it certainly contributes to economic growth. So clearly, both these struggles between SDP and HNS, whether we need growth or not, whether we need to tax savings or not, whether we need to tax property or not. You often see just the opposite opinions. But what Croatia needs, we need development, but we also know that in our official banking secret we are very limited to deliver these reports and to the secrecy of non-resident reports from the Republic of Croatia. I believe we will properly deliver reports on these savings in the Republic of Croatia. But what would be much more important is that we as a responsible state not only know how many savings we have out there, but that we know how many billions were carried out on these individual islands, whether it's the Caribbean or if some other islands where our Croats were, I'd say millions and billions. That is exactly the point where we can point by entering the EU to know who has the savings outside and what the Croats have been saving in the past 20 years outside and we know that it was not rational because they had a small income, precisely a small interest on savings income. Which motivated them to take the savings out. However, we know that there is no double taxation, and it would be logical for Croatia to introduce some of the most minimum income tax on savings, least of all, the minimum that we do a pilot project and through this pilot project with all the countries in the bilateral would then get information about what our Croats have out there. We know that Article 140. The Constitution of the Parliament confirms international agreements. This is one of the contracts that is important for these islands, for the Netherlands, but I think it's important for the Republic of Croatia to know where the money is missing from the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the HDSSB Club will vote in favour, will support this proposal of the law on the validation of these conventions between the Kingdom of the Netherlands and now not to list all of the income from the savings in the form of interest payments precisely in the interest of knowing where the money that was once in Croatia is, but we also see that all European countries are taking care of their citizens, I expect us to start taking care of ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76874	Thank you, too. Shall we continue with the replicas after the break or what? We won't. Nothing, we're moving on to replicas. Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76875	You mentioned the question of deposits and the introduction of a potential savings tax, or deposits, and on the other hand we have a problem with the inactivity of capital in the Croatian market, so why would this capital be active and invested when it can currently receive interest on the deposited deposits significantly more than what the inflation rate in Croatia is, practically, Croatia is going towards deflation. So, of course, to those who have capital at this point is much simpler, that capital is in no way taxed, it is much simpler at the rate of several percent to collect rent than to go out on a very risky market such as Croatian with that capital and try something with it to earn. And this idea of yours about this pilot project, the introduction of some minimum rate of savings tax is actually very interesting and maybe it would be better than what happens with us most often or nothing or anything terrible, and then it's terrible when it happens then at some stage we determine the extent of the damage that it will do, and we couldn't really evaluate them in the right way. It would be good, in fact, if many of the measures were particularly tax and those measures that are adopted on the financial market, that they were actually brought much slower, that they were brought through such or similar models and that they could actually be touched on a sample of whether this measure actually carries something good in Croatia or brings something bad. And the third thing you mentioned was the capital transferred from Croatia in any case we all more or less have these or such knowledge that a large amount of capital was exported from Croatia and that this capital was transferred because it was not acquired in a legitimate way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76876	Thank you. Cresimir Bubalo, answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76877	Thank you very much. Col. Djurović, we have capital inactivity, but those who have capital will not engage in projects because there is no income tax on that capital, and it would be logical to have a pilot project to know about all our money exported from Croatia because just bilaterals with European countries would be able to see who saves it outside Croatia and Croatia. But this is exactly the capital that needs to be put into operation, and when we look at it, say, there's a lot of talk about... Croatian road so why not Croatian capital, capital of Croatian funds, as well as Croatian parts of Croatian banks which few others are left with... Croatian roads, not sell what's left. That's why I was talking about this minimum rate, exactly the pilot project to find out what the Croats outside of Croatia have, but also how it would be evident all that capital that disappeared from the Republic of Croatia and went to fertilise, but there is almost no interest and what is minimal in European countries, so we know what was the reason why this capital was exported from Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76878	Thank you. Goran Maric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76879	Thank you very much. Comrade Bubalo, you said you'd like to see when and how someone brought the money out of Croatia. And certainly he couldn't have been legally brought out,...whoever did it more than three, four years ago did it against the law. And how did he get that kind of money? It is most likely against the law because it is more invaluable abroad to keep money than in Croatia, but far from the eyes it would be wise to keep it which is not acquired in a transparent way. Croatia has all the instruments to learn all the savings and assets of all Croatian citizens abroad, wherever that money was, it can only be estimated, but I am responsible for saying it is more than 15 billion euros. One... comes from representatives of European parliaments to Prime Minister Milanovic to be shown in such claims, the Croatian government has never been manifested. As for the pension tax, the moment when people are out of a job and there's only a little real estate left that can neither rent nor sell, right here in the window you've seen the sign "sales sold", no one's even looked at it, let alone asked since it was. But taxes are paid out of income not from real estate. If you have no income from which to pay taxes, sell real estate to pay taxes on that property, which is not reasonable. And savings can certainly be introduced, but caution should be exercised because interest is not allowed above the inflation rate and it is not normal for someone to save 10m euros in the bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76880	Thank you. Come in, Mr. Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76881	Thank you very much. Dear Marić, here are a lot of topics that are important for the Republic of Croatia, but also what has happened in the past for a better future of the Republic of Croatia because Croatia has been in debt in the past years, and we have individuals from Croatia who amounted to millions, you mentioned 15 billion euros, I cannot imagine whether that is so or not, but for sure that the CNB also had control mechanisms and about the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering, but also other mechanisms. I'm not surprised when in one of the procedures that was current these days, where what, in the Czech Republic, Slovakia, they sent us the Money Laundering Act and pointed to what individuals were doing. Now, it's a shame and there's a problem with the system, and if we were to tax with the pilot, normally we don't have to tax it hard, then through the pilot project the bilateral would know where the savings went, because it didn't evaporate precisely because of these small yields than the dirty money, and you yourself said that the real estate market was killed in the Republic of Croatia, so even if this real estate tax was put even more into the real estate market, it would kill the real estate market. But looking at the savings tax, it means the money that exists in the banks, especially you mentioned these large amounts, and it can be limited if savings is secured up to 100,000 euros, and that can be limited. But individuals who hold millions in banks and don't put them into office then surely they need to be taxed because there is no economic activity, because it's known in the West or in one America if income is 1%, 0.49 you pay taxes. Therefore, it is normal for America to be an entrepreneurial activity and to put capital into office. We need to look at patterns like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76882	We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the HDZ club Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76883	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy with associates, colleagues and colleagues, Croatia is not as unsettled a country as it is said here. This is just one of the final stages that funds on exotic islands simply get records and it is not good to talk about disorder because Croatia has its own office to prevent money laundering which is a member of the mani wave, which is an international association of such institutions and all these transactions are recorded. Therefore, the state, the Croatian state in the financial part of a very well-organised state, is a very well-organised state. If we were not such, we would not be among the first chapters that we have completed in the negotiations on the European Union would not be a legislative part of the Ministry of Finance. And it's not good, no matter who's saying it says it this way about their country. All those who made the money are in somebody's records. However, this law has a completely different meaning and completely different intentions. One of these is that countries share information with each other about how many citizens have the resources for the simple reason that these exotic islands often contain funds which are the subject of some illegal and dishonest work, and you know that the Republic of Croatia signed an international agreement on the prevention of international terrorism ten years ago, etc. And smuggling. And that's one of the very important things because today international terrorism has no limits, if you don't stop it from reaching capital, then we've practically made it possible for it to do whatever it wants. Both the depth and the strength of this law rests in that, and 15 billion euros have not been made out of Croatia, it is simply not true. Because if that's true, then all the business banks and everyone else didn't do their job. Croatia today has an extensive data exchange with all members of the European Union, and these contracts will be signed as well. If there had been a capital migration from the Republic of Croatia, what my colleague Bubalo was saying was true and it lasted for years. However, as the system was built up, the migration of capital was very much moving. Today, any transaction from the Republic of Croatia towards any institution outside is being thoroughly checked, in a way controlled. The system is simply advanced and the system works. The former foreign inspectorate, today the financial inspectorate, is closely overseeing certain transactions. About the fact that on these exotic islands it ended up... the money from the Republic of Croatia, whether some payments have been recorded and whether they have been handled, there are also records and records, there are also likely to be transactions that have ended in some strange way and which have not been recorded, but by signing such a contract it is a mutual exchange of data. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who says that these hundreds and some billions, in savings on Croatia, how many foreign citizens are saving in the Republic of Croatia for the reason that the interest rate on the funds is over two, three or four years is more than four percent, nobody can get it in their country, and on the other hand, it also points to the stability of the financial and banking system of the Republic of Croatia. Because no one for high interest would come to depose and save funds in the Republic of Croatia if they didn't have certain security. That's why it takes this data exchange because today, when the data comes from these 4 exotic islands to the Ministry of Finance or to another institution based on the OIB and a blood count of that which has some money and from that basis it's got some interest somewhere else to see if it's acquired legally or illegally. So the meaning of these agreements lies in that right now. However, what I said and at the previous point of finance are one very, very lively and active organism and there is a constant need to change the laws and try to prevent certain irregularities. But I'm saying I can't agree at all and there's just no argument for that that the Republic of Croatia is at this point a financially unregulated country. That's just not true. Because if that were the case then we would not have finished negotiations with the EU for a simple reason the EU has told us that you do not have legislation from Croatia, you do not have institutions that can monitor certain cash flows and you are a certain danger to the financial stability of the European community. Why? So we'll be Schengen tomorrow, we'll be EU entry tomorrow. We have a thousand and a few more kilometers of border towards BiH and if Croatia were as unregulated as Croatia is a potential threat to terrorist financing if we do not control it. And that's why I say when we talk about this then we have to be extremely careful because it's nice to say this, but for some things we need to have arguments. You just have to have them. That some things have happened in the past have happened, but let's look at which institutions and which legislation the Republic of Croatia has built over the past 10 years. But I repeat, these agreements with these four exotic islands go in a different sense than financially. So, primarily to see money flows. Because I'm saying over those exotic islands is usually what this so-called. The money that was in the gray zone that wasn't controlled. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support these four draft laws for a simple reason, which shows only another strength of the Republic of Croatia as a partner to control the course, international course and international money colliding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76884	Thank you, too. Now we'll take a break, with the replicas later. I'm sorry my colleagues are 15 minutes late for the board. We'll continue at 3:00. My colleagues and colleagues continue the debate. We continue with the replicas, Kresimir Bubal, to present his colleagues, Ivan Shuker. Here's your buddy, Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76886	We had a break, but the replica stayed, I didn't pull it. Here's exactly Mr. Schuker was saying that Croatia is more and more decorated and arranged, but Mr. Schuker, I didn't mention it but Mr. Maric said that 15 billion euros were taken out of the Republic of Croatia, so you within the HDZ club should agree on how much money was exported from the Republic of Croatia, but I believe that according to the Money Laundering Act, but also the CNB has reports, some of them were money for safety, and we know that interest, depends on interest risks, is also shown by interest. So interest depends also on the risk, but we also know that we have athletes in the Republic of Croatia who have had enormous incomes and have avoided paying taxes in the Republic of Croatia, and we all know that they have a legal option if they are longer than half a year outside of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, some of them were at risk, some of them because they had avoided tax, and some of them really brought that dirty money out of the Republic of Croatia, but I think it is good that you and Mr. Maric agreed on how much it was exported from the Republic of Croatia, whether it is 15 billion euros or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76887	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76888	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Bubalo and you could be part of that deal, because you were in HDZ a few years ago, so let's share that deal. But I'm not a man who will speak up by heart, if I'm going to tell you that in the strongest year of taxes on profit, profit tax income was 10 billion, that was 2008, that means that all entrepreneurs in Croatia had 50 billion kuna profits in 2008, then that story 15 billion euros has its weight. But I continue to argue that Croatia is a regulated state and, like any other country, has certain problems and failures, and as regards the taxation of athletes, I think their transfers where they get taxed, in the country of origin, and what clubs get, every payment with a jury account of the sea or according to the Law on Value Added Tax or according to the Income Tax Act is taxed. That you can't pay someone with a jury account of a particular sports club something that you didn't pay income tax if it's subject to income tax or not to pay VAT if someone charges you VAT, therefore. And what's true, it's this famous 182 days where it's practically defined the place of income tax, which is why some big stars in Germany have paid their taxes, so they'll probably think about it in Croatia one day, but I'm still saying that Croatia would not end negotiations and not be a member of the EU today, but probably knock at the door and with a far greater amount of fear they're worried about what's happening in our environment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76889	Thank you. And Goran Maric's replica. He's gone. He's losing his right to a replica. We're continuing an individual debate. Boro Grubisic, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76890	Thank you very much. As last today's debate, I can say that my colleagues left HDZ eight years ago, since then most of them have been exported from the Republic of Croatia, unlike the time before that. So we can discuss these 15 billion euros that have been taken or pulled out. Mr..., the Washington Times journalist wrote to me three or four years ago about 11 billion euros being delivered, and now where the real truth is, I don't know, nor am I an accountant, and I'm not an economist or any expert, but in any case you yourself have confirmed in your presentation, colleague Schuker, that these Croatian citizens' money was on these islands which were on the territory, so the Kingdom of the Netherlands, in fact to former or former colonies of the Netherlands called Curaçao, Aruba, Bonner, Saint Eustatius, Saba and Sint Maarten. So it's no problem to say it. So the proposal for a law on the validation of a convention between the Kingdom of the Netherlands and all the islands, is not an island, has quite a number of inhabitants, unlike our desert islands, which are in constant demographic poverty and in which many citizens of the world of the EU and others have their savings or hold foreign currency. But what I was asked to say is that when we talk about interest tax and interest rates are not high in the Netherlands or in the whole EU, they are even lower, so we have those who save on us, and outside, given the interest rate on savings. So when we talk about interest tax, so not on savings, but on interest, so tax on that interest is something that should, as counterpart Bubalo said, maybe create a pilot project with some kind of minimum interest, and see how savings will move afterwards. But what I do especially, not to bother me, but I have from the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, many wherever I move from people who have earned their pensions in Germany, France, Austria, Switzerland, etc. to tax their pension. So, they are taxed on pensions that have earned the hard and painful, we know all the jobs our people do, well, the exceptions are honoring the exceptions but what painful mostly physical jobs they do and then come to Croatia to finish their not only working life but then we have a tax on pensions for those who have acquired them abroad. That's when we're thinking so deeply about making a pilot project with small interest rates, with a small interest tax, it's a great ease to say that we've introduced without any problems, and it's interesting that the relationship between this difficult birth of a decision to tax interest and so easy taxation of pensions obtained abroad. It's a drastic difference in attitude and we know that many savings are mainly on these exotic islands, there are still others in the world are not only Dutch whether, but also some others who are independent states, etc., I'm talking about the Salems and I don't know who, there's all these islands. So, that these money, I'm not going to say as drastically as my colleague said mainly acquired or created, created in various ways, including criminal ways, and not processed to say crime or corruption, or I don't know what not. That's why I'm about to say supporters of the idea that on this kind of savings, in any case, I'm not saying that a drastic interest tax has to be introduced, but in one experimental form, so we can give some kind of a deadline, a year, two days of how it's going to work, so let me see. The money trail, the capital trail is completely visible. It can't be avoided that capital can't be traced. The money trail is always visible, the Croatian National Bank as an institution also has instruments, tools, whatever you want, tools to tell the English or some of our government to track down any money as it came into existence and wherever it went in any direction on earth, today the globe is a global village and it is very easy to determine how the money was created, where it went and how it fertilized. Unfortunately, what should be in Croatia, which is investment and investment in investment, does not exist because it is obviously much easier for many to bring this money to foreign banks on such an exotic island. A colleague said that in America, the United States is only 1% interest, and of that, the interest tax is 0.49%, so half the state, half the person who has put up some kind of savings or has some kind of savings in American banks. There's something else I wanted to say when we talked here about how all the ways in which the state loses and yet another way, starting with that unfortunate water that we've got a new one. So in a very sophisticated way a property tax was introduced. And I'll tell you on which. So we said that the real estate tax, and Mr. Minister himself was talking about going to non-functional real estate. So, if a man doesn't live in that house, if that house doesn't betray, if that house isn't in the function of some production program, etc. And here is a witness of such an example that the local self-government by law has therefore called that, in the house where you live, you have a residence, you pay 1 kuna of municipal contribution, and when, if you have another house that you do not use or occasionally use, you pay 35 kuna per cubic meter. What's that? Real estate tax. So a one-time fee, actually a tax or whatever you want, can actually be shown in that form. So for the house where you live, and for the house where you don't live, or any other facility, if you have 35 kuna. This is the basis of the Law on Construction and our laws that we have passed in this term, so there is a solution that actually legalises real estate tax. There. So clearly we're not going to run away from these legal proposals like, I think colleague Bubalo said that we're going to accept these legal proposals, but here with a little interpretation we've kept this Parliament in this stalemate position for a while, extended a little session, but that's how we get knocked out that we're doing a little work and we're doing a little bit, and then we better have extended the afternoon a little bit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76891	Thank you, too. No replicas reported. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later. We'll stop working now. Tomorrow we will continue with the Report on the Regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. I wish you a pleasant extension of the day until tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-03-0.u76892	Final draft law confirming the Convention between the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Republic of Croatia on the automatic exchange of information on savings income in the form of interest payments, emergency procedures, first and second reading, CZ No. 643. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously, with 106 votes in favour, there is a law of PZ No. 643, in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
