ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88706	New rules. Great. Good morning, everyone. And it is a pleasure and an honor to say a few words on behalf of the Croatian Government's proposal for a half-yearly report on the implementation of the State Budget for the first half of 2014. And as is common and with all this, a few words intro and about this set of documents that only follow the State Budget Implementation Report. Let me start by saying a few words about macroeconomic indicators that were therefore in the first semester of this year which unfortunately point to a continuation of recession movements from the past years, we are already 5th, 6th year in recession I think it is unfortunately known to everyone here. On the other hand, certain high-frequency indicators in the first half of this year show a certain trend in economic activity, a hope of recovery, so we hope it is some light at the end of the tunnel. So in the first quarter, the gross domestic product was actually reduced by 0.4%, in the second by 0.8%, and the primary result is the decline, therefore the primary consequence is the decline of domestic demand. State demand dropped by 1.9% in the first term, while household spending dropped by 0.5%. There was a further slowdown in inflation measured by the consumer price index, so there was a slight deflation, so it was 0.4 in June and aggregated to the first 6 months -0.3 in the first six months of this year. What encourages industrial production has seen a growth of 0.7% according to the calendar-adjusted indices, the retail trade has stagnated and a rise in tourist arrivals of 7.3% year-on-year, a rise in nights of 4.8%. Moreover, unfortunately, the high average administrative non-embassies rate, according to national methodology 21.1 which was 0.4% higher than in the same period of 2013 and the mild, therefore real wage increase as a result of deflation, was a real increase in the average monthly gross salary was 0.2%. Both last and not least important around macroeconomic indicators that goods exports increased significantly during the first six months, increased by 13.3%. Stock import is a true god also increased by 3.7 but the difference is visible. Something more about the numbers themselves. Total revenues amounted to 55.9 billion, which is 47.6% of the annual plan, which is an increase of 6.6% compared to the same period last year, so in 2013. Tax revenues, the highest incomes were on 46.3% of the plan, 29.5 billion, which was 3.3% lower compared to the previous year. The most significant revenue in value added tax was 6.8% lower compared to the same period last year. The situation with today is much better, indices compared to last year are over 100 so a good part of that impact is probably also the impact of increased tourism and additional efforts made by the tax administration and the results of fiscalisation. But I left the paper there on the table, so I'll probably be able to tell you later in replicas or in some other debates more recent numbers if you're interested in it. Income from the profit tax achieved in 3.1 billion, also an increase of 8.7% compared to the previous year. The property tax records a 20% drop, thus continuing negative and moving on the real estate market, i.e. The stagnation around the sale itself. The incomes from the profit and happiness tax grew by large indices even on the 66.5 million kuna index is 300, 400 but we know that because of the changes in the tax rules that we made last year so that they were taxed and the winnings in gambling games were actually in the bookshops from 750 to 30,000 kuna they were untaxable by this year. The income tax, totalling 718 million kuna, accounts for an annual growth of as much as 29%, which is the primary result of different tax returns dynamics per year tax returns. You know that the most significant recipient is to say the income tax by local self-government, that in the state budget these figures are significantly, significantly less. minors compared to the total budget. As regards the contribution, they were made in total of 21.7 billion, which is 19.7% more than last year, primarily due to the change in the rate of health contributions from 13 to 15 and thanks to the amendment of the Pension Funds Act and the benefits of the internship which has become an extraordinary revenue of the budget. Maybe a few sentences at the very end. Let me even say around income that the income from special taxes and excise duties also records an annual increase of 13.9%, primarily due to the rate change, somewhat weaker than the achievement, actually the results last year are the taxes on beer and on coffee, for the excise duties on beer and the special tax on coffee, which is why I say something weaker but which is expected given the weaker personal consumption. As for revenue from penalties, administrative measures and other revenues, they also grew, primarily due to better payment of traffic penalties. You know, we've brought new laws here that pay on time gives big discountes and with these big discountes, incomes are far better, which will say that the proposal and the law that you adopted, and proposed by the Ministry of Justice was good. As for the spending side, the execution was 63.9 billion kuna, which is almost 49% of the plan. Of which, spending on employees 50.3% of the plan, slightly less than 95.4 million compared to 2013. As for the pay cut itself, it is 134 million but due to this increase in health insurance contributions of 38.5 million, then the net effect of 95 million kuna is less than in 2013. Material expenditures were achieved at 42.9% or 3.5 billion. Material... reduced to the execution of 190 million kunas, so press all circumstances we will suppress as much as possible. The expenditure on subsidies was slightly higher than in 2013, 3.7 billion kuna in total, primarily due to direct payments in agriculture due to dynamics, therefore paid in the first half of this year. The peace and pension incomes are the most significant expenditure item of budget 18.2 billion, representing 50.4% of total planned and as an extraordinary expenditure in May 2014 the obligations of the health institution, i.e. in the recovery of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. So there were 1.1 billion kunas of old debts paid in May, which is 36% of this year's plan. A slightly weaker dynamic of course cost for non-financial assets, usually due to the process of contracting and carrying out works that usually come at a charge in the second part of the year, this index is therefore 27,5 but this is an explanation. As for the functional classification you also have, 37.8% of expenditure went for social protection, 16.19 for general public services, health care 15.9 etc. The balance sheet, the total deficit, the surplus, so the total government budget deficit in the first half of this year was achieved at less than 8 billion kuna or 2.4%, which is 3.4 billion less than the same period last year. But let’s face it, the main impact on this has this extraordinary income from the transition from the second to the first pension column of the 3069 benefits so that if we exclude this extraordinary income, then the deficit for some 300 million kuna is lower. But the figures are what they are, so 2.4% of GDP or 7,953 specifically the government budget deficit by 6 months this year. Out-of- budget users were 255 million kuna in plus, the surplus unit of local self-government with 36 was a billion and 8 million kuna in plus and on that side the total deficit or surplus budget of the general state amounted to less than 6.7 billion, namely 6,690 million kuna, which is only 2% of GDP. Consider the extraordinary income as a mathematics that is important to take into account. It would be good if the situation were really so good. As for the budget stock, you have a pretty short report on it that says that the budget stock is not excessively used. So there were no decisions on the INA regarding the prime minister and the finance minister, all decisions were made by the government within the budget. Unfortunately, we will probably have to increase the budget reserve through rebalancing, but a total of 170 million kuna is spent on paying monthly rents according to court rulings and costings per day. So out of that 200 million 90% is for that purpose. You have, of course, a guarantee report. The total plan was 5 billion, of which 3 billion for extra budget users. So in the first six months of 2,722 billion, you have a report. As regards borrowing, you also have a detailed report on two times borrowing through domestic market bonds of 650 and 500 million euros, Eurobonds of a billion and 250 million euros with a maturity of 2022, and a detailed debt report, standard government debt through vault records. Here's what would be about the figures for the first six months. I won't say anything new. If I say that we are six months, six years unfortunately in recession that the overall fall of the Croatian economy is unfortunately in two-digit numbers, that the deficit as such is a serious problem. Public debt is a serious problem of this country and that we will obviously have to make additional efforts in the excessive deficit procedure to try to raise awareness of our expenditures in the context of what incomes allow us to do. Maybe just a few more sentences. These days, the State Statistics Institute also published deficits by, therefore, the new ESA 2010 methodology in which it is visible and I call on all those who are closer to looking at these figures and comparisons, in fact, our deficit, ranging from 6, 7, 7, 5, 6, 5.2, 5.2% according to the ESA methodology 2010. So, pretty big numbers. But parallel to that, we have to go to the primary deficit drop 3.7, 4.8, 2.4, 1.8 in 2013. But you see now what's the difference between what's causing us to be burdened with interest and debt and all these 24 years. I wouldn't talk now that there was more, when there was less. But I'm saying, our primary deficit in 2013 according to the ESA 2010 methodology is only 1.8%. But if we count interest, he's 5.2%. So it's clear what Damocle's sword is like. Here comes the ladies and gentlemen of the council, so much intro. I'm in the mood to answer all your questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88707	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We have replicas. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88708	Mr. Rajenovic, I must admit you've confused me. In an explanation of the revenue side of the contribution, you said that they were realised slightly more than plan 51.8%, which is also the consequence of returning health contributions to 15%. However, the health contribution compared to the plan has been realised by 600 million less, so it cannot possibly be the result of a return to 15%. And you didn't answer me why there was a subsidisation of the plan in the health contribution if, in the meantime, there was an increase in the contribution, so this explanation of your income side from the contribution title doesn't stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88709	Replication response, deputy deputy minister Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88710	So it's very short. Thank you, Mr. Lesar. I'm sure you listened very carefully. But I spoke in all my presentations, and I mentioned one, two comparisons, so with the plan. There was a comparison of these indices, so concrete and health contributions were comparisons with the previous year, and that was, so these figures that I was talking about about the rise I talked about last year and the growth of the contribution index. Unfortunately, the truth is that because of the weaker economic crisis, I am now telling you directly only about the contributions, but everything else this year has failed with respect to the planned and, among other things, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will come with a rebalancing towards this House in the next two or three weeks as soon as this break as I hear it will be two weeks. After that break we will be ready to rebalance you for this year where we will try to allow only roughness, to keep the expenses at the level planned. And as for income, I say we're going to have to admit really that they're something weaker than achievement, better than in 2013 primarily I say the highest VAT. And it also contributes to everything else I said and better in 90% of the index, better than in 2013. Unfortunately, something weaker than the plan. But it's already another topic, the way we planned and adopted the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88711	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Dear Vice President of the House Željko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88712	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, dear Deputy Minister, every half-year's report on the implementation of the state budget actually shows how the government functioned in an economic, financial sense. You've convinced some parts of that budget, but you haven't actually given a conscious interpretation of it, and that's the key. The interpretation actually shows all the disaster of state leadership in economic and financial terms. And that is why, and only because of that, we will soon have to do a budget rebalance from which Croatia will be even more visible. Therefore, this half-yearly report on the implementation of the state budget is a very important document which I am not sure is paying enough attention to because, unfortunately, everything is fully evident from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88713	Replication response, deputy deputy minister Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88714	Thank you, Mr. President. Ha, Mr. Vice President, it's not my job to interpret. My job is to tell you realistically in numbers, you gave the interpretation in this replica and all other fellow MPs will give that interpretation of the figures themselves. What is the fact that we have a deficit, that we have a deficit from the draft Croatian state. That the deficit is accounting and I think I've been correct for this first semester at least in the last ten years for reasons and these extraordinary revenues, but that doesn't mean that we're economical in a good situation and that doesn't mean that the exit from this difficult economic situation can only be the only responsibility for, therefore, this government in the set. Like public debt, public debt problems. I explained what the primary means to us, which means the total deficit. Are we going to serve public debt in a way that we can find new sources of income or continue to be in debt? We are directly talking about the monetization of the highways and all other aspects and the possibilities of getting out of that Damocle sword that is above us. Is the way of further borrowing a good perspective? That's one question. The second question may be even harder, is it possible? In six months or a year, it's likely that in a year, two times when the situation in international financial markets is changing and when these historically low interest rates grow something at our premiums that we have and I say the backlogs that we're going to have to pay one day. Whether new duties can get this country out of the fungi is a question, a rhetorical question that I am asking all of you and the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88715	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88716	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy, I was expecting in your opening statement on this report that, of course, because it's a six-year report for this year, that you'll also give us forecasts for rebalancing, so you'll let us know when the rebalancing will be. Because this report shows that the budget isn't well planned. There was a rebalancing announcement for September, and then in October, in one week, another week, so it's known it will, but there's no telling when. I think today would be a turn and a chance to find out because we're practically already in November. You also noted that the budget deficit in the first 6 months is 8 billion kuna. What shortfall do you expect by the end of this year? I think that's quite an instruction to ask on this occasion. And at the end of the day about the pay. In all the budgets of this government, as I recall by now, there was always a lack of pay. Last year, both at the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of Education, this year at the Ministry of Education, so I'm wondering where, in fact, how much is missing and where are you going to redistribute those funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88717	Replication response, deputy deputy minister Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88718	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mrs Kosor that I said that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will come with a rebalancing, so these days we are making final arrangements about it, discussions on how to compensate for this lack of income that has not been achieved and how the expenditures of consciousness on the measure we have planned. And I said that, at the first session, practically immediately after the parliamentary break I hear announced for two weeks that the government would say bring that rebalancing. The rebalancing should be on the government next Thursday and will then be announced. As far as the missing is concerned, he's planned. You asked, it's planned for 13, so the state budget, 13 billion and 587 million and 4.1%. Are we gonna make that happen? I'm afraid it wouldn't go any further, yeah, hard. But I say what is now a position at least if on behalf of the Ministry of Finance they can spend in no way, so the total amount of expenditure we don't get through in any way. We can also and need to talk about income, and we need to find a new balance, but in any case it has to be realised through rebalancing. Anything else would be irresponsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88719	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Replica of the respected representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88720	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's the esteemed deputy minister in your presentation, you were talking about the deficit, but we were hoping you'd explain it a little more in detail, the implementation of the first term budget. But you probably know that you don’t have to try very hard because you don’t have much to say. But when we talk about the deficit, then you say that it's over 8 billion or 8.5 billion, which shows that it will ultimately be 17 billion at the end of this year. But those predictions we talked about last year when it came to the budget of your government, we said that it would surely be close to 20 billion in 2014. Which will eventually be. Because all the indicators that have been visible so far just point out that those predictions of us right on this side of the HDZ indicate that the deficit will be close to 20 or over 20 billion. What concerns particular is that analysts who have analysed this budget over the past period say that this particular government of yours will increase the country's debt by 10 billion euros in total over the past 4 years. So I ask you, Mr. Deputy, where are those reforms you promised? And without reforms, it's simply not possible to reduce the deficit, and it's not possible to take this country on the path we've been dreaming about for years. So all your plans, all your proposals have melted. Your end and mandate of this government is close, and at the same time you have done nothing for the state of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88721	Replication response, deputy deputy minister Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88722	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Lucic, what will be the deficit for this year will be decided by you at the very least, the Croatian Parliament will decide. The government will therefore propose to the Croatian Parliament a budget rebalancing which will then tell us how little income we have over expenditures. I was very precise, and I said when I was talking, and now we're talking about a six-month report, that the deficit if we're talking about the state budget is minus -7,953 billion and last year it was -11 432. You said it was bigger than last year. So all the numbers clearly tell you what it is and how it is. What I can say from this pay phone right now, and don't make me go any further than that because, as I said, the government is still considering finally what this rebalancing will look like, but what I can certainly say is that the deficit will not be above last year, certainly not above last year. And if we're talking about inheritance, I didn't want history, so I say these days we're adopting a new methodology, i.e. It is becoming interesting to the media and the European Commission will publish. The deficits were announced by the State Statistics Office, the deficits for the previous four years. So in 2010, the deficit was 6.0 per ESA in 2010, 2011. 7, 7, 2012. 5.6.2013 5.2. So the deficit's down. I'm not happy with it, no one who seriously understands finances should be happy because these are major deficits, these are the amounts for which you need economic growth 3.4% to get out of the story at all, but I say if you already call strictly for politics and about who left what, then this data according to the ESA 2010 methodology, I think they speak well who and how they manage, who and how they managed public finances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88723	Thank you, too. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Board of the Croatian Parliament want to make their views known? No, I don't. Before we go to the debate and open the debate, I would like to inform you colleagues and colleagues about the work plan first today. Today we'd be doing it if we could make it to three points in the agenda, of course. Tomorrow is also the four-point plan. On Friday, the report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media and the Agency for Electronic Media for 2013. Of course, certain points would be voted on, they would decide on the points reflected on Friday. So this week we'd be doing eight or nine points of the agenda. I'm opening a debate now. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, now it is the HDZ Representatives' Club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Ivan Shuker. Here's your colleague Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88724	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. Chief Treasuryman, colleagues and colleagues. In times of difficulty, never a briefer discussion and report, actually an explanation of the execution of the state budget, but that's probably the case. But if we know that the state budget is the main instrument for economic policy management, then this implementation of the budget should maybe be a little bit different between the words, and then the story turns out to be a little different because there are people in this country who deal with certain segments and then some things read a little differently from the raw data the government offered us. But what's definitely a fact, which is that this is the implementation of the budget is the result of the work i.e. not the work of this government. And we can look at it through three key segments. The first is the wrong macroeconomic assessment. And now it is definitely that Croatia will not have economic growth this year but will have an economic downturn. It is definitely that Croatia has 31 863 fewer employees in the sixth month than last year. So it's a fact you can't escape from. It's definitely the fact that he also had a growth in current balance of payments deficits. However, here I would also like to clarify one thing, which is exports. So, we've often heard about export growth, if we know that exports are 90% industrial production and agriculture, if in the first six months we've had a decline in industrial production 0.5% then this clearly leads you to one fact, you don't need to be some top economic analyst to say that exports didn't grow, not 11% or 14%, but it grew 1, possibly 2%, and this 10% is actually the transport of goods so-called imports from Serbia, Bosnia, Greece somewhere else. And then exports of these goods to the EU. This growth of 1.2% is a purely statistical change in export calculations that is sometimes not accounted for. Because I'm saying, if you have reduced employment, if you have a drop in industrial production then who produced that surplus that should have been exported. But what has been continued as a result of these guilty macroeconomic assessments is the growth of foreign debt. He also increased by 1 billion this year in the first six months. And when you have the wrong assessment, when you have the wrong macroeconomic assessments, then what's not happening to you on the income side as a sequence of certain economic developments you want to fix with taxes. And then you come into something that's unorthodox, which is that you're running the wrong tax policy, that you're falling into a tax increase, and the ultimate result of that is unfortunately on the income side that instead of plus you have a minus. And that's the characteristic of this government's policy. Because colleagues and colleagues, so not to make it up now, you can see in the explanation given by this government, so you'll see that new taxes have been introduced since 1.1 last year and certain rates have been increased compared to last year. However, their result has led to us, and this should be clearly said here, that there is no one-time payment of 3 billion kuna from the second pillar of the pension, the deficit of the state budget would be 11 billion kuna, 11 billion kuna. And we're not going to have those 3 billion in the second year, and that definitely opens up a big problem to this government. So, just to remind ourselves, we've introduced, we've increased our contribution to health care, we've increased our excise duties on energy, electricity cigarettes, we've introduced excise duties on telecom services, we've increased our profits from the company, and at the end of what I've already said, the second pillar of retirement. But if you just look at the data for 8 months, then you'll see that at the end of the year with profit tax, profit tax revenue, is about 300, 350 million kuna, regardless of the good results after 8 months of VAT, we also have our own why, at the end of the year from VAT, we're going to miss over a billion kuna compared to the plan. However, when you look at how many entrepreneurs are not returned to VAT, so-called tax, at the 8th month, then you will understand why this is the result of VAT. So nothing can be hidden, nothing can be covered up, something can be made beautiful for three years, but that beauty has led us here where it has led us. And what I'm saying is, colleagues and colleagues, game with contributions, we are, not only with retirement, and we took these 3 billion kunas because... we will be taken, but the most tragic game with a health contribution. At the end of the year there will be over 2 billion kunas and colleagues, I announce here that the HDZ Club will propose a conclusion to this Croatian Parliament when it is voted on this report that before the debate on the State budget for the following years, a general report on the state of debt in health and that it finally draws a line and that we say, that it is that and that after that time no one can recognise a single debt in health because then we will only be able to talk about doing something in health because this is all that is happening, these huge resolutions, etc., it is a simple laugh. And in the end, speaking of health care, I simply have to look back on behalf of the HDZ club to this circus around the treasure, the separation from the health treasury. The Treasury is one of the most capital projects in state administration reform, whether someone wanted to admit it or not. The Treasury offers you the best and best quality way to manage taxpayers' money. What do you get now if the health care gets out of the treasure? You will get, someone will get an opportunity to manage with 23, 24 billion kuna and that..., however colleagues and colleagues, the real reason for the separation of HZZO from the Treasury, because if you look at the budget, HZZO's budget has all its positions and no one can take it away from it, because the Health Act and read articles between 72 and 85, so it will be clear, it draws you into a new deficit of 3 billion kuna. And we can say whatever we want. And now that it doesn't turn out that HDZ doesn't propose laws, we instead of proposing laws, when we're discussing the law, we give our ideas what we should do, and therefore we warn you, we go to our conclusion that finally this High House and the Croatian public knows what debt is in health care and other things, let's not go to break up what we've been building for years, and that's the system of the Treasury because only if the money is in one place, then it's managed in quality. More than I'd like to say. You have the so-called so-called. Cash principle of cost recording and that's what happens in health care and that's why you can't even get a real result of what minus health care is. You see, colleagues and colleagues, from what I've said so far, and saying a lot more is clear that this budget is not the result of the profession and the Ministry of Finance, but the result of political pressure and when it comes to political pressure, then you have what you have. You have certain figures that just can't be agreed on by any man who knows public finances, no matter what political option they belong to. It is a fact that you colleagues and colleagues who do not deal with this area simply need to be aware. The budget is the result of political pressure. And finally, as far as income is concerned. On the principle for the first six months, a billion and 300 out of 4.5, for the first 8, billion and half of 4.5, that means that by the end of the year, we won't come to 50% withdrawing funds from the EU, no matter how much anyone sings in this country, that they did this or that. Someone can say something, but in the budget are facts that no one can escape from. The expenditure side, it clearly tells you that... they did not implement structural reforms because if structural reforms were implemented, then the expenditure side would look different. You don't have many positions on the spending side that you can cut by several hundred million kunas and nothing will happen. You may have five, six, but they may, some may not be in the short term, but in the long term, they may be reduced exclusively and may be the result of structural reforms that unfortunately have not been implemented. And those who know public finances, who deal with this business, if they compare this budget execution and if they compare the budget from a few years ago, then they'll simply see that there's no shift. Nothing's changed, nothing's moved. The implementation of structural reforms requires political will, unfortunately we didn't have enough of it either, because if we had enough of it, the expenditure side would probably look a little different. But because of the lack of the desire for structural reforms, due to political dictatorships, this budget will lack funds at the Ministry of Education for Payments and Transport, we warned in the first month and will lack funds for salaries to the MUP. This is definitely leading us all, colleagues and colleagues, to a minimum deficit this year of 19 billion or 5.8%. It's minimal, and it's likely to move between 20 billion and 21 billion at the end of the year. However, I here as a responsible man want to warn you of three things. It is one thing to make certain transactions that are not recorded now in the budget but will come in some future time. It's so-called. factoring for obligations towards shipbuilding, so at this time do not register it in the budget but it will be entered in the budget in some future periods. Also 3.4 years ago, the funds for Croatian railways were in the budget as subsidies, incentives etc. Today, these means of reduction are almost 900 million kuna, but that is why when you look at that list of guarantees of 2.5 billion kuna or 2 and 300 as many guarantees were issued in the last year, you will understand that this has been replaced by that. And what is the most tragic cost of the future period, in this year, about 2 billion costs were transferred to somewhere not paid from the previous year in the next year, three will be transferred and the question of colleagues and colleagues is whether we need a budget if you add these three things together at all. So, the 2014 budget is like this, the rebalancing will be in 15 or 20 days and we unfortunately ended up as we ended up, but the real problem of the Republic of Croatia is 2015. Because those key spending sides cannot be reduced because structural reforms have not been implemented and in 2015 we are definitely going to the deficit of 23 billion or 6.6%. Why am I saying this? So I speak for the simple reason that Croatia as a country that is in excessive deficit measures instead of going towards reducing deficits, unfortunately Croatia is going counterprocessing the Croatian deficit is growing. And when you look at what the deficit last year is going to be what the deficit this year and what the deficit next year is going to be, we are unfortunately the opposite trend we would have had. And we with the EU will unfortunately not be able to negotiate politically but we will get a dictatorship as we should, just because we see what we need to do, but politics does not allow it to be done, it is fact that no one can escape from that fact because these figures say so. Well, look at me one way or another, but your colleagues and colleagues' deficits will be over 19 billion at the end of the year, and we can now say whatever we want. And public debt, it's going to be over 82% at the end of this year, and it's not HBOR inside and it's not ZG Holding, it's still climbing you by a few percent. So definitely this government will increase by 4 years of mandate only as far as the budget deficit is concerned by over 80 billion public debt of the Republic. Last year we had a historically high and highest public debt. And finally, because of the wrong assessment, because of the unsustainable increase in tax burden, due to the lack of structural reforms, because of the record of public debt, unfortunately I have to say something that I thought I would never say, if nothing is done, Croatia will unfortunately be in a preliminary settlement in 2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88725	Thank you, Your Honor. The good news is you don't have 10 replicas but 9. The first replica of the respected representative Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88726	It's hard to say in these two minutes everything that should be replicated, but a good part of the argument or argument of fellow Shucker comes down to that folk's "Keep the Thief" because the thief in that mess after he's stolen, he's holding the thief so he doesn't see that he did it. So I'm going to try to argue with the next one, you're objecting to this government for introducing a tax on TK services, so you forget that your government introduced it. That's the tax you've introduced. Another thing you're saying is he's pulling profits from companies, so you've been doing it and introducing it. You're talking about an increase in taxes and VAT, be careful so at least we didn't promise to cut, you're in the campaign, I remember it, you probably forget everything, and this is also that you said you'd cut the VAT to 20%, so you increased it to 23%, you said in the campaign that you'd cut it down, but you increased it, and you objected to us. So you've been affected by total amnesia, you've forgotten everything, and now you're complaining about what you've been doing to others. So don't do that if there's enough of us in this Croatia that was. And what's good is you're trying to bend it because you're saying different. You are talking about the unemployed, but unemployment has fallen this year in the last year from the Employment Service, 218 thousand people have gone because they have found a job because they have not been deleted in Croatia. This has never happened in the last 10 years in Croatia, these are all facts. Exports so normally grow, you try to dissuade it in every way, you feel like it's sorry that exports are growing, so you say it's because of the change in methodology, that it's because of the repacking, etc. and Croatian exporters themselves say it is part of it, but most of it over 10% refers to a real increase in exports without shipbuilding and oil industry that has previously been the main part of our exports.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88727	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88728	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Jelusic, you only confirmed what I was saying, unfortunately you are not aware of what is going on in Croatia and this debate was neither party nor anything but simply someone who has been doing this work for a long time and who can read between the lines. Unfortunately, you don't know that because if you knew, you'd never say anything like this. And when we mention 2007, we could ask who and who was but we won't talk about it. My colleague Jelusic, I wasn't talking about unemployment, I was talking about a fall in employment, and that may be far worse than unemployment because a fall in employment means losing your jobs. And as for exports, I will repeat what can be exported if you have a decline in industrial production in one country and if you have a drop in employment, if your exports account for 90% of industrial production and agriculture, and they're practically down then I don't know what can be exported besides that so-called. Reexports. But I repeat, we'd all be better off reading numbers the way they are. I know that sometimes a man can't say things for political reasons, but I think that the concern of all of us for Croatia's future is far more important than any political story. But, colleague Jelusic, we'll hear from you on 31.12. Your deficit will be over 19 billion. No matter how many unpaid bills you will transfer next year, because some bills are not paid in 9 months and are told to suppliers that they will be paid next year. These are facts you can't escape from. This budget clearly states that structural reforms have not been implemented, have not been implemented and therefore the expenditure party is as it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88729	Honorable representative Branko Bačić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88730	I thank Mr. President, fellow Shuker, you are rightly saying that this 6-month report is actually an indicator of the incompetence of this government to address the crisis facing Croatia after three years of management of Croatia, and the best indicator of this is the assumed deficit at the end of the year, which will be almost 5% and over 5% of GDP, respectively. What I wanted to report and replicate to you concerns the inaction of this government, that is, the delay in delivering guidelines to local self-government and local self-government at the end of the 10th month. I don't know if in the history of the Croatian state it's ever happened that by the end of the 10th month a unit of local self-government and regional self-government have no guidelines for budgeting. The more the problem is that the government announced amendments to the income tax law that will take 2.5 billion kuna to local and regional self-government units. How and how the units of local self-government will address this problem, which are compensatory measures, which the Government intends to change to compensate in a certain way for such a large amount, it also has no answer. Changes in sales tax on real estate will not be enough to help local self-government units. So, not only is the government not able to solve the accumulated problems, but on the other hand, it shows that there is no vision or what awaits us next year. You have rightly said that Croatia will be the hardest in 2015 and we can think that it will be difficult when the government has not yet made a draft budget at this time and has not warned local self-government units how and how they go about budgeting for next year. So, I completely agree with you that this is the way to look at this budget and I believe that on behalf of the club you have made absolutely professionally critical of this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88731	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88732	Thank you very much. Yes, you are right about your colleague Bačić, the Budget Law is required by 6 months to create guidelines for fiscal policy as a basis for budgetary users of the state budget, as well as units of local, regional self-government to do their own budget. When this crisis started, it somehow moved until the 8th month, but we can't possibly happen that the units of local self-government, and eventually those who are looking for funding from the state budget in half the 10th month don't know what these projections are. But if we look at the basis that the projections were made in previous years, then they don't really need anyone. But there's one thing that's far more devastating. Many units in local self-government share in income tax more than 50% of income. In major cities, it's about 30.35%. And now you can think of doing the budget for next year and you don't basically know what the highest income of your budget will look like to you. And that's what's worst. But if you look at the implementation of this budget, the government has no room without introducing new commitments to Croatian citizens to replace these funds to local self-government units. And that's the key to everything. But that's what I'm saying is politics and not the profession dictates the budget. And that's the key to the problem. Because the budget is the most powerful tool, the strongest leverage for economic policy-making. Therefore, in the budget everything is collected together and the figures are... They say whether you are successful or not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If you have a 19 billion deficit in the third year of your term, then it says that you have failed, that you have failed to do anything and that all policies, all the tax burdens you have imposed on Croatian citizens were unfortunately wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88733	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Zeljko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88734	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, dear fellow Shuker, I've been encouraged by two of your claims to answer. One is tied to a huge debt of health care. The fact is and we all remember well the Croatian public and we here have listened to by the government from this pay phone how debt in health will be recovered. All directors of all hospitals in Croatia were removed under that excuse. Political, party-like renaissance managers were put in place, and then it was said that there would be no more debts after the recovery and that if any of these recovery managers made debts, they would be removed. What happened? We were then warning that none of this would happen because without structural reforms from which literally none of the only ones had been implemented would not be well done but these same, although party-like renaissance managers would find themselves in the same position as those before and create new debts. And indeed now we have 900 million new debts and these recovery managers are similarly not removed except for one single reason and this one is replaced with a very high-quality staff from... I'm an economist. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The other thing that you said and which deserves to be explained to the public and to all of us together from this pay phone is that we haven't heard from the Prime Minister in how many times that no new taxes have been introduced and nothing is tied up, and no tax burden has increased, and yet we have heard from you that there will be more than 1 billion missing, so I would be interested to hear the explanation of that fact and these discrepancies of course we have heard.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88735	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88736	Thank you very much. Dear academic Rainer, so you just confirmed what I was saying, which is that if you don't implement structural reforms and you go to the hospital's recovery just because you move the hospital's leaders and then in the current year's budget you secure less resources than you did last year, and last year it produced that loss, then it clearly says how it will end. But what is crucial, and this is a famous separation from the Treasury of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. Let the debt and the extent to which the state budget should be provided under the Health Law, which are articles from 72 to 86 that define the incomes of health care and who is entitled to health care when paid from the budget, and you will see what is happening and why someone is very insistent. Because someone will receive 2 billion more funds, it will be a big deal because they have been pumping money in the system, and they have not reformed the judiciary or patients or doctors, but therefore all employees will pay the same rate of contribution and Croatian citizens will each year have an increase in public debt between 2 and 3 billion kuna. That's a fact. And that's why I said and I hope that this HDZ conclusion that in this high home, there will be a debate on the real debt in health care and a draw and that here we will conclude that after who did not report his claims in health, no one has the right to seek out this whole story, then you will see this whole story because it is simply unbearable that every government, every minister of finance, regardless of which political options always resuscitate health and we have never recovered it, and Croatian citizens are unhappy with health services.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88737	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88738	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, dear fellow Shuker, everything this government has been doing over the past three years actually shows that, and we've heard it hundreds of times in this assembly on this side of our assembly, that the government simply doesn't understand, the current government how the economy works in the 21st century and doesn't believe in the private sector, even though the only private sector we all know can bring new jobs, employment growth and economic growth. He also does not understand, he insists on not realizing the potential of joining the European Union and unfortunately is not even able to force his own public enterprises to launch any investment. Everything this government does, it all shrugged down, in fact, the whole economic policy exclusively on taxes, on tax policy up, down, on the left, on the right, contributions up, down, taxes, and in this way they actually introduced full, total tax instability. Such tax instability, as well as general legislative instability logically destroyed every consumer and investor trust i.e. Entrepreneurs. Under these conditions, it is absolutely impossible to start economic growth. If you do not have the minimum trust of Croatian citizens in your own country, in what will be tomorrow, what will be taxes tomorrow and investors, that you do not know in a month in advance what taxes there will be, so who in such a country will do the job. Unfortunately, the current government has proved absolutely in the past... the years unfortunately for all of us, and that's especially in that tax policy and we talked about it, and it's less and it's not anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88739	Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88740	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A fellow Milosevic, so it is simply fascinating that all units of local self-government have their own spatial plans, that they were created on the basis of some county and higher plan, which was spent a great deal of money. Now the question arises if someone wants to build something that is consistent with spatial documentation that has the right to be dragged away for a year or two. It's the key to the whole story. Apparently it seems simple, but the simplest thing is to do, and if someone in this state is not to clean up whether these jobs will definitely be raised to the state level or will lower them to the level of the units of local self - government to dear God anyway. But if we've invested money in spatial plans, then no one has the right to ask anyone for this or that or this interested group finds itself, or she says this can't be built here. If citizens have come forward after a public debate and if representative bodies have come forward with these spatial plans then practically citizens have agreed to have such an object and such an industry in place. And that's the key, because what's happening in Croatia is that different stakeholders hitchhike each project, that those who need to issue papers drag people out for a year, two, three days, that's what's inadmissible, and that's all we need to eliminate, and we're going to solve a lot of things. But what's crucial about investment is legal certainty. If someone indisputable owes you something and you sue, your slowness lasts for 7, 8 or 10 years, it creates exceptional legal uncertainty. If you go into one business on one tax basis, then someone introduces some taxes to you, so cut your profits or collect your business, it also creates a lot of uncertainty because you've come in for something to earn money. I tell anyone who wants to make money...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88741	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88742	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Shuker, I have followed your debate with caution, your criticism of this report, and then you ended up in a very pessimistic tone, so depressing that Croatia could find itself in a pre-departure settlement already in 2015. That's pretty depressing. However, you said in the statement that Croatia owed almost 1 billion, that the external debt had increased nearly 1 billion euros. The fact that the external debt is 46.6 billion euros and that debt, that external debt of a billion euros, actually came from the country's sector. And what you've pointed out and the truth is maybe less talk about it, and that's because of inefficient public administration, perhaps sloppyness. The Republic of Croatia will find itself in a situation and could use its EU membership so that in 2016 and 2017 it will not be able to withdraw those billion euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88743	Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88744	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Babic, so I purposely said that Croatia is going in the opposite direction. Instead of reducing the deficit it is increasing. Why did I say a pre-war deal? Well, because all those who control us and who need to control us see that we're going the wrong way. While you're going in some normal direction, you have room for political talks and negotiations. When you see that the third year in a row is totally wrong and it's drastic, it's an annual increase of 20, 30% of the deficits, then there's no political conversation anymore. And it's not that Croatia is going to go bankrupt so that it doesn't get misunderstood, but when I mentioned a pre-profit settlement, it's something that this ruling coalition has been praised so much, so I mentioned it figuratively. But that is why all investors will think very much about Croatia. We, even now at the time of perhaps the lowest interest in history, are paying relatively high interest. Why? Not because we may be like this, but because the trends that those who would like to invest money in Croatia are negative and when they see these negative trends, they simply take advantage of the opportunity and give you more interest than they should. And then they use it as an argument. You see, you already have a third year's deficit increase, you haven't implemented structural reforms, and then you finally have a bigger interest. And when we talk about these interest rates, it says 12 billion interest. Look, 2012 deficit 11 billion, 2013 deficit almost 19 billion, 2014 deficit 21 billion. When you add it all together, it's over 60 billion. Count on that average interest 4 and a half percent a year, so you'll see how much that is. That's over 2 billion and 600 in three years of government. But let's not forget that until the economic crisis, Croatia was paying interest somewhere around 5 billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88745	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Martina Dalic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88746	Thank you very much. You told your colleague Shuker at the beginning that a lot can be read between the lines in this budget report. Well, you can actually read a lot, a lot from the lines themselves. One of the most interesting lines is a report on state guarantees. A state-guarantee report said 552m kuna was paid for the protested guarantees in the first six months of this year. It's going to be the best of years. Best under quotes when more than a billion kuna is paid annually for the protested guarantees for shipbuilding. It would therefore be interesting and important for you to explain to us what, how and what guarantees are being protested. And she also says the report is one of the most frequently protested guarantees from the Croatian railways. In the first 6 months 107 million kunas were paid for protests at HZ Cargo guarantees and new guarantees were issued 250 million with a maturity of one year. This is the second time HHC Cargo has been granted guarantees for financial restructuring and consolidation. What happens in HZ and how HZ uses the loans that the state guarantees, because in the past two and a half years of your mandate, more than 3.3 billion kunas have been issued to Croatian railways, which are essentially being rerouted and artificially reduced by state expenditures which testify precisely to these protests by guarantees. So these guarantees are actually one less visible and perhaps more noticeable way in which you artificially reduce expenditure and to which you artificially keep this deficit high anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88747	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88748	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Dalic, I deliberately said among the words, because among other things, at the position of HZ, they fell back, according to what was back three years ago, almost a billion and a half expenditures. But these expenditures have shifted to guarantees that will come in charge of the state and that is the deficit of some future times. That's why I also pointed out the factoring of the shipbuilding and also the delay in payment. That's what's between the words, which you can't see. But if you look at how much the budget has grown, actually the deficit of the state budget relative to what was shown, then you can see that among the words it writes. However, he writes among the words what is not done. Because you put what you're doing in a row and you can defend it. But when you do something, you can read what the writer wanted to say. And then it's best when those who can't read it are trying to tell you what the writer wanted to say. And sometimes when we wrote a booklet at school, that was the conclusion. So I tried to draw conclusions for Croatian citizens who do not have the opportunity to see this and to warn them not to scare them as some have spoken, but to simply warn them that someone does not know how to work, has no political will and is unable to implement the reforms and has therefore increased their taxes, has therefore increased the price of electricity, has therefore increased their price of gas and the result that on these 20 billion kuna they will next year pay 900 million more interest compared to this all. So, I wanted to send a message of this between the lines of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88749	Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88750	Although I disagree with you on the position of the State Treasury and Health Insurance of HZZO, you said that if that happens, the deficit of the state budget will be 3 billion, 2 to 3 billion. I would say that, in fact, it will be clear then that it is the 2 to 3 billion kuna of the government's debt to health insurance, which so far or so is not yet executed or, more precisely, 2 billion and 59 million kuna, surely. And I still don't know if those are being executed, these are Articles 72 to 82. The Health Insurance Act, and I have no record of whether or not the obligation to direct a part of the tobacco tax to health insurance. But the essence of what I wanted to tell you is a proposal for a conclusion on the state and debt of health. Our club of representatives just a few days ago, that's exactly the kind of proposal the conclusion made in the procedure of wanting to discuss the effect of the Law on the recovery of public institutions, and it's actually the rehabilitation of the health system. So if you join this I want to believe that the government's response and data delivery will be quick so that even before the HZZO's separation from the Treasury knows what need or debts or pluses it carries outside the treasure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88751	Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88752	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If you want to restructure something, then you need to know what condition it is. Without it, it's a dead end. But what you said, I'm surprised that as a man of constant struggle for workers' rights, you said what you said. So you said something from and such a high tax burden for Croatian citizens should be paid. However, the contribution, the amount of the contribution and the amount of the tax is the equivalent of what you need to finance. The Health Law knows exactly what is being financed from a health contribution. Therefore, let what is needed from the state budget be paid for those who have the right under the law but then have obtained the conditions to reduce the health contribution rate and to increase wages to Croatian citizens. That's what we need to talk about. But no, I'm going to take what I'm sure is no matter how much I need it and I'm going to take five billion kuna from tax revenues. Because you've forgotten something else, and you've got one third of the excise. So these are facts that you can't escape from. Therefore, it is necessary to see what is the state of health, to say how much such health care as it costs, and then to determine who and how and how much health care will pay and how much health care will be. Because what you said was that he said some kind of neoliberal I would have understood but you who advocate the rights of workers hard because it... Wait a minute, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It leads them to a higher tax burden and it... And well, that's your right to speak. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So it's very interesting that a single political health nomenclature has drawn into the budget, and that same political nomenclature has been pulling it 10 years back. And there's a lot of moves like that, and it's just too expensive a school to play with. So if this is going to work then you have to make one very, very good base.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88753	Thank you very much. MPs are not in the assembly for private talks or party talks, but are speaking to the Croatian public. Next replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88754	Dear fellow Shuker, you said at the beginning of your debate that the budget is the strongest leverage for the implementation of economic policy, which I agree with you. However, the budget is primarily the most spectacular political act. He's also connected to this thesis you said at the beginning. The parties gathered around the Kukuriku coalition spoke one thing, and the budget shows that they are actually running another policy and economic policy but also a common policy towards the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. What you respected the government is actually not like you said warning but criticism, justifiable criticism, one, especially one thing in the eyes, which is funds, European funds. So the money we were offered, the money we had the chance to take, we just didn't take it. We act like a country with surpluses and who doesn't know what to do with the money, so we don't need that money in the EU at our disposal in European funds. It's exactly, it's a sighting indicator of the incompetence of the people who run the state and incompetence of the people in the government. Just offered the money standing on the table and not knowing how to take it. The other thing is, if the budget is the most transparent political act then it was certainly the wrong policy, which was the cutting policy, the tightening of the belt, the saving, which the EU also admitted was wrong in some countries. However, we continue to insist on what is failing. And it is certain that this austerity policy will not get Croatia out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88755	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88756	Thank you very much. counterpart Vuksic, EU funds are often driven by pre-accession and EU funds when reporting. Somewhere in 2008, in 2009, when we set out to use these pre-accession funds more strongly, we came to the realization that we could exploit all the intellectual potentials of the Republic of Croatia, we would hardly be able to create quality projects that would enable us to withdraw funds. Did the Deputy Prime Minister and the Resolute Minister make me say tools, prepare services to help those who are unable to do so? Did all of Croatia's intellectual potentials engage in project preparation? No, they're not. Sometimes he refuses your project because of the wrong point, this one or that one just to eliminate you. So if you're still incompetent, if you're late with all kinds of accreditations, if you're not comfortable with software and such nonsense, then whoever needs to give you the money is overjoyed because he sees that you won't take it back. It is definitely now certain that Croatia will not be able to withdraw 600m euros in 2016 from what will be granted to it for the simple reason that it has not prepared administratively. That's a fact, and now we can fight as much as we want, but those who read the 2016 report will unfortunately see it. And what Croatian citizens, which Croatian entrepreneurs have out of all this together, nothing. When you talked about cutting consumption, there was no cut consumption in this budget, what could have been cut. What should have been the result of structural reforms you don't have, you removed all investments primarily in the Ministry of Education, and the Ministry of Health, and the Ministry of Regional Development. All because nothing else could be cut, and that's when I say politics has to take over, because one man can't do it, this policy has to be taken over and determined what will be reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88757	Honorable representative Franjo Lucic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88758	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, in your debate, you touched the units of local district self-government. As I come from Požega-Slavon County, and we have been talking for a long time about the simple tax repression in the state budget, I am showing this from the example of Požega-Slavon County. Namely, the Office for Spatial Planning, which was in the power of the ministry, i.e. the state budget, simply without any questions, has singled out all employees from the current state budget on the burden of Požeko-Slavon County. The cost for these employees is 750 thousand kuna. Of course, the second tax repression of income tax and units of local self-government and county also says that my Town of Pleternica will run out of 500 thousand kuna. The merger of hospitals in my county, Pakračka and Požega hospitals only in a year increases the second of 20 million kunas. So I'm asking you, indeed, and so are your colleagues and colleagues, and so is the minister, so what kind of health reform is, and how do you think you're going to continue to burden cities, counties, and this is how you're going to bring tax repression into the situation that it's not going to work. As a result of this repression of the tax that you are carrying out in these three years, you have not shown in any way that you have made any progress, that this tax burden has helped the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but you are increasing the deficit bigger and bigger, which will ultimately be 20 billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88759	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88760	Look, fellow Lucic, you have a fiscal responsibility law that says you need to make an assessment of the impact of this law and when we talk about decentralisation, then if certain obligations are coming down, then the rights should also be brought down. And that's what unfortunately doesn't happen. Hospitals may be the best example of how you shouldn't work because you just put hospitals together and think they're gonna sting something, and administratively put it together, it's a story for little kids. And it turns out it just doesn't work. But this income tax story is ridiculous. Well, wouldn't it make sense if someone had some idea and maybe some things weren't as clean as they were supposed to be, that he'd made a bill and let him go into Parliament's first-reading procedure? There are a lot of people who are now or were before the leaders of local self-government units, there are a lot of people who know how local self-government works, and then you could discuss it, maybe crystallize some things you do with it. No, the government doesn't do that, they're going to push the law back into our emergency procedure. And logically, the ruling majority will simply have to vote because what I'm saying about political pressure regardless of how many disagree, but local self-government units will run out of 2.5 billion kuna. And no one can say no one will feel it, because if you take 2.5 billion kunas from someone, then someone will feel it. But we keep forgetting that local self-government units are practically the only ones who invest and work in this country. That must be a billion-and-a-half investment, a billion-and-a-half less work for and this failed construction in the Republic of Croatia. It's less kindergarten, it's less school, it's less kilometers or meters of water and sewers, etc. And whoever thinks otherwise, unfortunately never even knocked on a local self-government unit, let alone how it works.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88761	Thank you very much. The last replica, the esteemed representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88762	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, 25,494 million kuna was a deficit in 2011, this government is certainly not going to achieve it, but I believe that at the end of next year we will have at least half of it, or somewhere around 12.13 billion. However, what offered me to replicate, in one analysis of your opposition, the quality of this report on the budget, among other things, you kept reading the lines, and then between the lines, you figuratively expressed yourself, and in fact I am just as our citizens so realized that your large HDZ economic programme comes down to a pre-emptive settlement, in the end. You've been so figuratively expressing yourself. Which means that none of your secret economic programs, but that you think you should go to Croatia's pre-determined settlement. And I think it is not, that this government policy and the direction of this government, and the strategies that we are doing, and the restructuring that we are doing, and the reforms are something that Croatia can come out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88763	Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88764	My colleague Gjurkovic, I'm sorry to have to tell you this, but if it wasn't sad, it would be funny. This is tragic what you just said, but it's about you. Another thing, let me get this straight in 2011. The deficit, as you've shown it, was 15 billion, which is what you've knocked up 11 billion shipbuilding. If by the same principle all these guarantees you've given over the past three years, which is known to be charged, if these 6 billion you're going to take from the second pillar of retirement and some other things that are going to be spent in the future, you're going to be charged to the deficit this year, you're going to have a 30 billion deficit. So let's not play with something that's known methodically and ultimately, it's done by Eurostat, as some things are done. Let's not stare at things. And from the looks of it, the best case was the way you think, here's this UBS bank. So these are facts completely clear. There are documents and someone finds the right to say, Croatia owes 45 million. About that number, I don't know, only if someone's been talking for the last three months. No one spoke, but to Djurkovic, yes, it was disputed that someone on a $3 million debt and charged 20 million in debt. So interest on this and interest on that. And the other thing, he couldn't physically prove he owned that bond, and that's why the negotiations aren't over, and that's why it was negotiated in the term of this government, just because someone's afraid to say it. Why didn't someone say that out of these 27 million, that's the last figure you talked about, 20 million waste on business banks, and 7 million waste on the Croatian state, so if it should be paid, the debt of the Croatian state can't be greater than 10, 11 million, but someone just to deal with politics said, is, these are the skeletons from the closet, 45 million. Here, you see, this is irresponsible, political view of public finances, and you have all the documents in the Ministry of Finance, the CNB, the DORH and the Foreign Ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88765	On behalf of the motionary of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Deputy Minister of Finance Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88766	Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah, these closet skeletons are from the '90s, so on, you know it. ... Yeah, yeah, it was going up from the '90s. when we talk about the skeletons in the closet. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] In '88, even better. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So before '90. As soon as he's... in play before the independent Croatian state. All right. Here I came after the HDZ Club to say a few words even though after this, most of the debate club inside the HDZ Club, but well, that's the failure of the Rules of Procedure himself, at least that's what I thought when I was here among you, but I mean so and so on. But, well, that is still the problem of the Croatian Parliament, so I apologize for even commenting. He didn't say a lot of exact things, but here's what I wrote down to say about a few of them that were still incorrect. From the very technical part that the preliminary exposure was brief and that the information was not comprehensive and sufficiently comprehensive, they were at the level of previous years, even some steps were taken.... As for the opening presentation, I have carefully prepared myself, watched as it was in the past years, this has certainly been longer than in the past 3.4 years, but less important. What I agree with, I agree that the macroeconomic projections were optimistic and unfortunately we didn't achieve them, it was the biggest risk and when we talked about the budget itself, there was still a former minister, it was said that the forecast was optimistic and that on that side the only and only economic war... even if the economic forecast could draw the country out and I was talking about this... sword of interest, now I'm going to say something more since the figures, I say, about the debts. My colleagues from HDZ, I say within the debate club, each mentioned their own deficit number and where we expect to say so it's time to say and we talked more methodologies so I say I'm going back and I'm going to say according to the ESA 2010 methodology that includes all of this, so we've been talking about both HZ and some other skeletons from the closet, just the methodology... 2010 includes everything and this is actually what the state, what Eurostat prescribes for all states and what the state has as some of its swords regardless of whether they were through guarantees, whether they were directly through the budget so, I say, ESA 2010 with state budget and users includes both outside budget users and public companies and local budgets and users and outside budget funds and it is actually comprehensive. And these figures say that our deficits are bigger than our national methodology and that's why we have to talk about them. The deficit was, fellow Shuker, yes, 25,494 in 2011, was 19,795 in 2010, and it fell in 2012, '13, so this ESA 2010, it fell to 18 billion in '12, and '13. 17 for '14. We'll see what the ESA methodology gives, but what I want to talk about, that's the primary deficit, means the deficit of differences, income and expenditure, when we subtract interest, and our interest in those years, so before this government's term of office, was slightly less pressure on the functioning of public finances. Something smaller, it was heavy, it was 2010. 7.7 billion. It was 2011. 9.6 billion, but in '12. It's already climbing to almost 11 and in '13. And this year we have over 11 billion interest, so for all those debts, so we paid them, didn't pay or partially paid, and inherited them from the former Yugoslavia. This is what I want to raise awareness of both of you here and the price of the Croatian public. The primary deficit, I say, just to deal with numbers, was according to the ESA 2010 methodology in '10. 12 billion 021 in '11. 15 billion 804, 2012 7 billion 875, in '13. 6 billion 776. So, trend is a drastic decline. What I said, what we expect this year, not wanting to prejudge the government's decisions and ultimately you yourself who will decide on the budget rebalancing itself, it will certainly not be greater than 16 billion and will not be greater than last year. I have to be correct, I've been correct both in the debates and on one income of 3 billion and I've mentioned it many times, you've said it's hiding between numbers, it's not hiding, 3 billion from the benefits is an extraordinary income, and on that side it's registered on that side, and that's why the figures are slightly better.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88767	Thank you very much, Deputy. We have three replicas. Honorable representative Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88768	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, if they can criticise you first, can't the representative speak for debates of the representatives that the debate club was a lot of replicas, and for the sake of the Croatian public and for the sake of... replicas within the club were introduced by SDP representatives in the 2008-2011 term. So if it wasn't a debate club at the time, and it wasn't understood, but obviously it was the concept and thinking of politics. In 2008, a colleague, Radjenović, Croatia was in the primary surplus of billions and 800 million kuna and I don't understand why we glorify interest. If you have a 19-billion deficit, you have to be in charge of 19 billion, and you have to pay some interest on that. Whether it's 4.5% means that next year you're spending more interest than the previous year 900 million. If you had a deficit in 2012. 10 billion for showing it up even though you owed a little bit more, in 2013, the deficit was somewhere 18 billion, that's 28 billion. Take that the average borrowing rate was about 5%, so only for those two of your years is the cost of interest a billion and 200 more. If this year and a half of EUROSTAT's deficit will be 19 billion, next year also some 20 billion of some 500, 600 million more interest costs. Therefore, there is no need to glorify it. You know exactly what was in charge, and that's what interest is paid for. When you look at us in 2007, we had a public debt reduction, but there was an economic crisis and the budget exploded. In order to sort this out, structural reforms had to be implemented. They haven't been implemented, and unfortunately, my biggest regret is that now six years later we're talking about the same problems we talked about six years ago. It's the biggest tragedy of all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88769	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, respected Deputy Minister Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88770	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Shuker, that's exactly what this was about, and that was my reason to take my word again on behalf of the promoter and now the reason for the replica. In order not to read all kinds of numbers, and unfortunately in the media always finished those figures that sound the most attractive, so if I remembered well the expected deficit of the most attractive figure from the opposition's point of view was 30 billion this year, now I expect someone. ... He's a colleague of Lucic's, but we'll take a good look at the record and we'll hear it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, as part of this debate, your colleague is in line with your presentation on behalf of the club and 30 billion. Okay. if this will help the optimistic Croatian society and the expected most important component of growth in the economy and personal consumption when you say that with 30 billion I don't know if it will help, and therefore I talked about the ESA 2010 methodology used by all the European countries that EUROSTAT publishes, in fact, together with the RS DZS works for all countries and it is comparable at levels. You talked about structural reforms and the unwillingness to implement them, some of them carried out. There have been a lot of protests about it since legalization, from fiscalization, if we have to talk about how many protests there have been on that side. And today any structural reform has been welcomed on the knife at the beginning. You can't be a colleague of Shuker and you know it well against the expansion and the explosion of public debt, talking about the problems the public debt carries, and wearing primary and through interest payments, etc., and on the other hand, say no, we don't need a solution, we don't need a monetization, we don't need a one-time reduction of public debt by three billion, we don't need a solution. It's easier to get 33 billion to refinance, transfer... and pay 60 billion. [[The speaker speaks too fast, he doesn't understand.]] So I don't want to end the debate on that agenda point, but I'm saying today that I don't put it in my plans sometimes, and now because of the populism, saying no, we don't need even monetization is the most principile way. Excuse me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88771	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Martina Dalic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88772	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Radjenović, you obviously like to discuss these methodologies, and you know, speaking of methodology, then you can't cover all the issues arising from this budget by calling for this so-called so-called methodology. ESA 2010 Because the HH thing only involves HH Infrastructure. And what this budget says is that the government is doing is issuing guarantees to other HZs such as Cargo, such as travellers who do not enter these methodologies, issuing guarantees based on credit granted to them, and then paying off those same loans. In the first half of the year, 107 million kunas were paid to HZ Cargo for protests. So what does it make sense to grant them a guarantee for a new 250 million a year loan? Last year, Cargo was paid 107 million kuna in protests. I simply ask you how this process of financial consolidation and restructuring is going, this reform in the HH system, are you calling for reforms yourself. So I ask you what the results are and what are the results, if the state constantly approves guarantees for consolidation, care, so for the current costs of these guarantees pay and then approves a new one? I do not see that this process is successful, I do not see that this reform is successful, and I know that it cannot be covered by some kind of foggy call to the ESA 2010 methodologies, 2005 and so on. Some people can't be fascinated by words like that. So I ask you nicely to answer me what you can and why over the past two years a billion kuna guarantees have been issued to HZ Cargo and HZ passenger transport for financial consolidation, for care and where the results of these reforms are.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88773	Thank you. Replication response, deputy minister, respected Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88774	This new technique is more complicated than the old one. [[I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88775	The new technique is just among you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88776	Okay, President, I'm just saying that it's new to me, so I'm a little more complicated, and I'll get used to it when I get here more often. Mrs. Dalic, you will receive a detailed response from HZ Cargo, you know that when I cannot speak to you about the details now, but here I will ask my colleague Hajdash and his colleagues to give us a detailed answer about HZ Cargo. You know it's been an attempt to privatise and he's failedly finished, we all know it well, and we know that the process didn't start in 2013. But I'm saying a detailed answer you'll get. Why was I talking? I'm just on ESA 2010? Because it is closest to us and what is comparable to all other countries I say in the European Union. And because I want to bring this debate down to a common denominator and I want us all to discuss the same figures so we don't politically use them. I say we start with, we start with, I don't know from which, but we get to 30 billion, that's the biggest number. So that is, it is simply we need to agree on the language we are talking about and I personally think that given all the circumstances of the new ESA 2010 is a good methodology and it includes telling the state budget and all the users and Croatian water and Croatian roads and the Energy Efficiency Fund and the Privatisation Fund and AUDI and CERP and DUDI and HZ infrastructure and HAC and ARZ and therefore this public debt is growing, you know very well. And all of these are actually my replicas and conversations going on the trail and that appeal of yours, and I think and support your public appeal that you've done a lot and radically by getting out of your former political party that this country really needs strength for serious structural reforms so as not to end up in this spot where we end up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88777	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Dear Representative Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88778	Thank you very much. Mr. Deputy Minister, you said you might have been a little overly optimistic. Well, it's not, it's good to be optimistic, but in this case, when it comes to the most important financial instrument of the state budget, then they can't be unrealistic macroeconomic assessments and they can't be wrong measures and that's exactly what you did. You misjudged and made worse measures. The increase in VAT rates from 23% to 25%, and 8.5%, respectively, caused an imaginary decrease in income from the same VAT in only 6 months by 2 billion and 600 million kuna. The finance ministry, which only realizes that the state pays 12 billion kuna interest, as if the finance minister is working in the public finances institution, is talking. Well, he's responsible for that condition, not only to find out. On a major state instrument, the financial state has become dysfunctional, so no wonder of this. No wonder when a governor of the National Bank of Croatia says on the anniversary of the celebration of the national currency's introduction "I hope this is the last anniversary of the national currency". So such a state must be dysfunctional and such a state must be changed and no governor in any country of the world would then remain governor. A state that pays fines, a penalty in only six months of 280 million kuna. Watch the penalty pens for damages without anyone answering can't be a functional state at all. The state that pays, so much real estate pays only six months 300 million kuna rents to natural persons cannot be a functional state. The state should resuscitate Croatia, return to office but this report shows that this government is unable to do what it does not know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88779	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, respected Deputy Minister Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88780	Thank you, Mr. President. That the Minister of Finance is one of the responsible, I agree, one in a series of responsible in all these 24, 25 years of our independence when we continuously produce deficits all together. The public debt has neither begun with this government nor will unfortunately end with this government and the weight of this public debt, I am trying to appeal to all of you and to the Croatian public to understand what this means. And all the good you do in the economy, you Mr. Marić know very well what such a huge public debt means and you know what it means to us, how much economic growth we need to balance again, given that we have interest rates, I say that are at a historically low level that we will need to balance incomes and expenditures and maintain the standard of living of Croatian citizens at the level where it is today, let alone go back to some better years. And that's why I'm also saying on that path that it's good to say it politically we're not going to do this, we're not going to do that, but when the government proposes any measure of structural reform that I don't now list they're welcomed on the knife. On the scale of a truly direct reduction in public debt, we were welcomed by the president of your party's knife to sign such referendum initiatives without really talking deeply about what and how it should be. You know, reducing public debt while apriori refuses any thought and perhaps some better offer than the one that's been speculated in the public of 3 billion for monetization is not a very responsible way of acting, and I've repeated it the third time today, if I have to repeat it the fourth time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88781	Thank you, too. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the club of representatives of the independent list and representatives of the respected Damir Kain and Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88782	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Minister, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. We are ahead of this Implementation of the State Budget for the first 6 months of 2014. But first, I will quote Mr. Lalovec's finance minister, who is very well aware, deeply aware of where Croatia is just going and literally he says, I quote: including highway debts, parts of railways, HRT in public debt, while we have already talked about him half this morning, we have reached the amount of public debt of 75% of GDP. For this year, we expect the debt to rise to around 80% of GDP and that is a level we cannot manage in the long term without strong structural changes, the finance minister said. Each month, the state allocates one billion kuna for interest, which is $12 billion a year, which is an additional reason for stronger structural reforms. As of next year, the tax administration will announce a few days in advance in which companies and activities will carry out tax supervision, and after they spend it in 3 or 5 days, they will publicly publish what they discovered in that surveillance. That's the point of this, how to put it, the moment. In short, whatever political group won the elections in 2015, whether it is left or right, I would almost dare say that in 2016, figuratively, it will start over, almost from scratch when it comes to public spending or running the state because this will not be long longer. We're just stagnant and unfortunately sinking. In 2013, the share of public debt in GDP is 75.7%. That was then, so last year it was cca 250 billion kuna. How long was the deficit discussed this morning? The government budget deficit of 16 billion kuna per ESA 2010 must be increased by around 3 billion kuna withdrawn in the mandatory pension funds budget, so the deficit will be around 6.2% of GDP, which is a 1% increase compared to last year, and I am proof that the excessive deficit procedure is unfortunately not respected. The debt is less than expected, above all, because the debt was not included in the HBOR's calculation, except that the bank's capitalisation is recorded as an increase in expenditure, i.e. it ultimately increases the deficit. The ZET deficit has not been included, and we are not talking about these deficits of municipal enterprises throughout the Republic of Croatia, which is likely to be an obligation to see Croatia's deficits soon. So once again I'm going to say, I repeat, whoever takes the lead of the state by election in 2015 almost dares to say that it will start over and better to tell the people today than to say it in a year. And I'm afraid in 2016, whatever someone thinks, they'll be one of the hard years, even if they get out of recession in 2015. Why do I think it's gonna be like that, or why do I think it's gonna be like that? So recently, Governor Vujcic said that this year, the decline of the Republic of Croatia's GDP will not be 0.2% but will likely be 0.6%. He says personal consumption will grow 6.4%, the drop in state spending before 0.6%, it corrects it to 1.3%, the decline in gross fixed capital investment 3.6%. Unfortunately, this year no matter what anyone said, tourism has failed. Growth says export, but I say it's rather questionable too. I would join Mr. Shucker's thinking here that if that export grows I doubt it can grow at a rate of 17%. I spoke during the rebalancing there sometime in the 3rd, 4th month when we had it, that first rebalancing, that Croatia would not grow in '14, that the public sector would feel the restrictions, and that is what we see now. But what was certainly good then in that rebalancing, we were in charge of 33.5 billion and not 40 billion kuna. The happy environment is that interest is falling on the international money market. We de facto without the vault records in six months have charged 8.2 billion kuna, we have returned 7.9 billion kuna loans. The following year, to be a little cynical, GDP is entered and income from illegal business, we are extremely strong and inputs and revenues from prostitution, smuggling, drugs, cigarettes, alcohol, but this will increase the GDP by about 2 billion kuna or 0.7%. That export of goods, to get back to it, me simply, I can't figure it out, it's falling on one side of industrial production, and exports are growing. In fact, industrial production in the first quarter grew by 1.5%, but in the second quarter it stagnates, which is this period which concerns the highest of this report. I'm afraid what's happening here is what seems to me in the Netherlands somehow defined as Amsterdam, the Rotterdam phenomenon. I don't think we separate, that we don't distinguish goods from actual exports, so when we look at one moment, Croatia becomes a significant exporter of bananas, cars, rice, pineapples and everything we don't actually produce here. On page 456, there are macro economic indicators. Here, among other things, is the ino debt that has now reached 46.6 billion euros. The problem is clear and VAT. It fell by 6.8% compared to 2013. I'm talking about that quoted period. And why is that? Because apparently no matter what the rate went up two percentage points, which is obviously what people are trying to live for, the less they spend, which they don't have and can't spend with one word. Far from it. Therefore, a new calculation of income tax can also help the state, but it will certainly also be public consumption and there will be an increase in VAT next year. But I agree with those who say it will hit quite drastically, say, local self-government. But I agree that they can behave more rationally too, so it might be okay, because I can't imagine that in that narrow part of the County of Istria, for example, 180 people or 180 people are employed in the city of Pula. It seems to me to be about 49 in one Vodnjan where two were employed by the 1990s. And what will we do when we begin to add related societies to this? Costs revenue is 15.8%, but we have to keep in mind there's electricity. We see that there's water or this year there's water to throw in abundance, but the current never collects. Oil, fortunately, is a record, low on foreign markets 80 bucks a barrel and we keep the price still high. Help out the days abroad. This is on page 470, i.e. what goes for the European Union. They are larger by 2.3 billion kuna compared to the same period last year and amount to 4.6 billion kuna. Clearly, when we talk about helping a given abroad, then here we also include helping local self-government plus decentralised functions, then that inter-urban transport for students, etc. etc. When talking about the fees of citizens, citizens are sorry or households, the largest item in the execution or in the operating expenditures is made up of exactly that of citizens and households on the basis of insurance and other compensation of 33.1 billion kuna or 49.3% of plans for the fourteenth. The pensions were made in the amount of 18.2 billion kuna. That's exactly 50.4% or planned funds other than pensions. The above mentioned expenditure group also includes the fees set out in health and social insurance regulations, as well as other types of compensation that citizens, households, receive from the budget, irrespective of the system itself. The subsidies in the first half of 2014 amounted to EUR 3.7 billion, which is 65.2% of the total planned funding for 2014. And what to say. This year is complicated. However, the year has passed. We still have rebalancing ahead of us. I don't know why he's waiting with the same guy. He actually was how we're going to end the year and how we're going to start next. The execution that is ahead of us is somehow under the quotes of techniques. I am afraid that 2015 will also be more demanding since 2014 and then simply follows a sobering in 2016 after the election. Someone mentioned this withdrawing money from the EU before. We paid about 50% of the money in six months more than we withdrew. We pulled, sorry. We've paid about 3.6 billion kuna, we've withdrawn 3.4 billion kuna. However, I keep saying that what is the worst that our priorities in some way determine Brussels. We're through these public works, I don't know etc. Maybe we get a job doing construction work. But the equipment that's being built on is only from the west not from our factories, not to mention the structure of the administration that hundreds and hundreds of millions are going to be coming back from Brussels. So they're not giving us anything, they're just returning what used to be ours, I'm sorry, and we might be able to better determine. Second, the income of local self-government, that they fall, they will fall mainly next year after this Income Act if adopted. And that's why I think we should go amongst other things to review to express the system and the system in some way go back to where it was in 1990. We should get out of here somewhere. Clearly, it is not possible to return the system to 105 municipalities, but surely 575 if I do not cheat on the municipalities, which cities, which the county could reduce by two-thirds and thus begin to reshape the Republic of Croatia. And we must finally know and understand, since the start of the crisis in 2008, over the last six, seven years, 22,000 people have been employed in the upgrade. So we have 22,000 more people, and 120,000 less in these six, seven years has been employed in the real sector. For wages in the upgrade, it doesn't matter whether municipal enterprises, municipal, urban, this or that, state 3 billion kunas higher from 37 billion to 40 billion, and on the other hand in the real sector are 75 billion kuna for wages or 76 minus 8 billion are now paid 68 billion kuna. But there are other topics that the deputy minister spoke of. And the monetization goes on. We won't do anything, clearly, but we won't make it this way. So finally the Istrian Ipsion, yes, exactly the French are building but we've given them 50 km of roads, tunnel, bridge over Limska Draga, we're returning the VAT to a total of 220 million kunas in the budget and not counting any further.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88783	Thank you very much. We have replicas of your exposure. Dear Representative Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88784	Your Honor, Mr. President. Comrade Cain, you said that whoever takes power next year will have to start over. And I'm replicating your indiscipline. That's why in Croatia, it is what it is because politicians act like you're acting right now. If this country sinks and then it makes sense that she can't win the election again next year. On the basis of what criteria do you say whoever wins the election? That's why in Croatia it's like this. Croatia is going bankrupt, directly at the fourth speed, full of gas going into bankruptcy, and the government will not say anything, but almost nothing is doing to make it happen. And Croatia has no time to wait for another set, because it is a year and a half, two days until the laws of that other set start to work in the first place. And in these two years, he's going to go bankrupt for sure. Therefore, this government must either do what the people chose it to do in a way that is best managed by the state and everyone knows how to run it because today they could say they have no sense in Croatia, so they can't run the state. He's got a mind, but that mind isn't gonna run the state the way we know it should run it. He's got enough hands, he's got over 100 votes. So you don't need a consensus on this side. This side of anything to talk about, the other side can run the country any way they want. So you either run the state like that or resign. All these stories that the Deputy Minister teaches us which is the primary deficit, which is more interest, so Mr. Deputy Minister, it doesn't matter to us because we have to pay the interest or the primary deficit, it's all the same. If you don't pay the interest the person you owe comes to sell the Parliament building if you don't pay him. If it goes bankrupt, Croatian waters, forests, highways, Parliament, everything, the square of Ban Jelačić will be sold. And that's what's gonna happen to us, and no one understands that. You are now responsible for this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88785	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88786	Ma Croatia does not go bankrupt, there is no need to fear anyone, but I am simply afraid that the year 2016 will simply be one year of sobering after the election. Until the system in this country is permanent there will be no investment, we won't get better. Until we get rid of Croatian crime won't get any better. As long as there's a will anywhere in any institution, there's no saving us. While nepotism exists in any institution than the municipality, the city, the county, the ministry is no better for us. As long as there is one media control or press as in some parts of this country, there is no bread for us. As long as there's no justice, it won't get any better. As long as there's no security, clearly it won't get any better. As much as 400 legal acts change annually in this House, there are no investments. While two or three employees are being sued for employment in Zagreb, and the Ministry of Tourism is being taken over by party and no one, let's just say that there's nothing better for us. Until the law applies to everyone in this country the same way we don't get better. While Croatia has, before I said 575 or how many units of local self-government, there will also be no happiness. Croatia needs to be decentralised and regionalised, and I absolutely agree. And while Europe continues to dictate to us what we will invest in and while it sets priorities it will also not be better.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88787	Thank you. Next replica, Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88788	You showed your colleague Cain how interest falls on the world market. Yeah, imagine we're dropping credit ratings and we're dropping interest rates. What a paradox! But did we use that paradox? Of course not. We didn't even try to use it. Croatia ended in 2013 with 226 billion kuna. If only someone had tried to refinance that debt and 1% cut the interest rate of 2 billion and 260 million kuna would have been less expenditure of the state budget. But no one's even tried that. Today we pay some banks in Croatia 6.75% interest. No one's even trying to cut it down. Isn't it time we stopped wandering on the road? Isn't it time for the right moves? And you say you believe there'll be next year's sobering. So how can someone sober up if they drink all the time? We run a drunken economic policy. We're in charge of pre-fashion settlements, believing it'll help everyone. The first hour on the basis of the economy is learning about three major mistakes in the economy. And the main mistake is preaching. What's good for one doesn't have to be good for the other and for everyone. And if we say we saved one, then we saved Croatia. And this report shows that this is the alarm, that this is the alarm bell. However, it's not Hemingway's, it's not a sign or a sound from a tower, but it's a sign of responsibility, a sign of alert and sound for a different policy, for the inadmissible that is being implemented and that national economic policy is finally starting to be implemented, not economic policy in the protection of individual individuals and groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88789	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88790	Yeah, I'm also booked on these pre-war deals, but if they weren't, I'm afraid there'd be a lot worse in this country. I get the impression that they've usually been killed by little ones, but they've been making a big profit out of the same ones. However, I cannot agree, I cannot accept the fact that individuals who participate in these advances or bankruptcys in this country come out even richer, with even more pictures, with even more cars, even more real estate, with even more accounts on foreign accounts than when we compare it to those who go bankrupt in one Austria, Germany, England or America, or end up in prisons if they cheat their committees or end up "in the cemetery" after committing suicide or literally start over. It often happens to us that those who simply threw the entire industry on their knees come out richer than the poorer. But I'm gonna do it again, if there weren't any prenuptial settlements, I'm afraid the opportunities in this country would be worse. I agree, it absolutely needs to be controlled by banks, to be refinanced to call it debt, it's not logical that leading bankers go out with bonuses of maybe ten million kunas a year without counting their home incomes, it's not logical that our banks have more interest than mothers' banks in some other countries, although we have to be honest and admit that almost 20%, maybe every fifth kuna, mainly when they're dealing with an economy that's unpaid. And then there's no need to be surprised at this interest-pression of banks against our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88791	Thank you. Next replica Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88792	Thank you very much. Comrade Cain, you've said a lot and would require more than two minutes of this replica. But when you were talking about withdrawing funds from the EU, then it appears on this page 6 that it is 1,200 million. The EU membership fee for this year is 600m euros, which is about 4.2 or 4.5 billion kuna. For the first semester of this year, so we pulled out 1 230 million kuna. This means that it is very likely and very likely that we will not withdraw almost anything more than 50% of the funds we have paid in the EU. Secondly, you say the decline in industrial production is very significant, so you're surprised and the export is growing. Well, it is clear that, given the smaller restrictions and customs that have been abolished between Croatia and the EU countries, exports have led to a slight increase in exports. But the decline in industrial production is what worries. The downfall of real sector employees, that's what's worrying. And why this is happening, why someone here mentions that there are fewer unemployed, so because people went abroad to work, they went from the employment office, checked out and went to work in Germany, Ireland, England anywhere else. That's why the number's so-called. The unemployed are smaller. But we care about the number of employees, because it increases the gross social product, and that's not there. Look, you said there's no punishment for those who ruined the industry, to simplify it. Here Đuro Đaković is your best example, it is a company of strategic interest for the Republic of Croatia, but the director of Đura Djakovic who brought the company into 120 million debt, is it responsible for that? No, he's gonna be transferred to a better place on your party nomenclature, maybe and he's gonna ruin another firm, and there's no responsibility in this country. It's not national financial policy, it's international financial policy. Watch the fines and the penalty, 230 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88793	Thank you. Next, and we have an answer. Here you go, pal Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88794	By my nomenclature, the one who ruined Djuru Djakovic will certainly not be moved or promoted. I am not going to talk about this achievement of basic macroeconomic indicators in the mid-term 2014 period, but I will say again for 2013 and 2014 for the first six months we have paid about 3.6 billion kuna, we have withdrawn 3.4 billion kuna. And what's worse is they're giving us these priorities. Industrial production, says here, is growing 0.7% for the first six months, so it's almost hard to believe that goods exports are growing at 13.3%. And you see what I was talking about, Croatia became so to say overnight exporting bananas, cars, rice, pineapples, dates and a series of other goods that we do not produce or have in our country. We talked about exports of 17% even watch out in some months. And what's just happening here is that it just happens, I don't know, it only comes to these imports into our ports of certain goods, it's being blocked, it's moving further west and it's simply being recorded as our exports. In 2013, if we compare these data to these first six, seven months or eight of this year, exports increased by 3.8% at the annual level. And that's about realistic some rate, and that's why we don't need to be fooled by this information about 13.3 or even in some months, exports of 17 million kunas are growing. We don't need to just be wrong ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88795	Thank you. Next replica Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88796	Here, colleague Caine, you've quite reasonably expressed those positions and you understand the situation, you've shown it rationally. And if we're going to talk like that, what is the question of what is the general purpose of this last year of this government's mandate? So these last three budgets, all estimates, their macroeconomic indicators were wrong. At the end of each year, we found that everything was misjudged, that the recession continued and that, in fact, Croatian society, has now entered the 7th year of economic recession, i.e. now having characteristics, not only of economic, but of social depression and what we can actually expect in this last year of the term of office, and that this government has more legitimacy for this last year of mandate. I'm not saying this because of, or because of my own, and I guess neither because of your political position or the interest of political parties, but simply when we look at the Croatian interest, does it even make any sense for any more years of the government's term of office in which it is absolutely clear that the results won't be anything, and that this will actually be the year of torture by the 11th month next year when we all expect more or less the shift of that authority together. Wouldn't it make more sense that if it didn't work out and because the failure was evident, that they were in fact simple, accelerated and accelerated that agony and, on the other hand, offered themselves and the Croatian society a chance to, in fact, with some other people and in some other way..., if you want, actually try to run Croatia because this simply doesn't go anywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88797	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88798	The legitimacy of this government certainly has, no one can challenge it, all right there until the end of next year. And there's legitimacy, we have two measures that need to be implemented as well, which a lot of talk about, which might be very helpful first of all to this small economy, it's VAT collection, not by invoiced, but by the amount paid there by these small entrepreneurs up to 3 billion kuna. What will the new Income Law bring us? Whether to increase consumption, remains to be seen, but I will repeat once again, yes, I fear that any coalition, left or right, will take the lead of this country, in some ways almost have to start, under quotes, from the beginning of 2016. It's not possible to dispute everything that's happened in the last three years, there's been wandering, but it's certainly been what's just been positive. I'll do it again, until it works in this country, for example. Legal state, we're not gonna get any better. While the price of energy in Croatia does not know how many times higher than our neighbouring countries, it will not be better. While the course is as it is, but don't let God correct it because simply all citizens in charge of the economy, etc., are bankrupt, it would hardly be better. As long as we have elections or referendums every few months, it won't get any better. As long as he's permanently guessing on his own, he's not gonna get any better. As long as we're wrong about exporting, which I was talking about earlier, it's not gonna get any better. As the number of real sector employees declines and the upgrade grows, it won't get any better again. As long as we have a selective judiciary, it won't get any better. While people in this country are responsible for chicken, and for converting the hotel or taking over the community, it's also not going to get any better. It'll need, I said, start over.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88799	Thank you, colleague Cain. We will now hear the position of the SDP Representatives' Club and Vice President Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88800	Thank you, Vice President. Deputy Minister and Assistant, colleagues and colleagues. The debate on the implementation of the state budget is not only a debate on figures and should not only be brought down to this, but it is an opportunity to discuss and the circumstances of the policy in which it is implemented. To the national budget of 2014. Croatia is implementing measures to reduce excessive deficits and macroeconomic imbalances. The result is the long-standing crisis caused by the structure of the transition economy, the slow implementation of structural and other reforms in society, but also by inadequate and delayed measures to address the causes of the 2008 financial and economic crisis. In years of pre-crisis growth, Croatian growth is based on high consumption and personal and state-owned, state-owned investments, especially or mainly in road construction, significant investment by private economic operators in real estate, which is financed mostly by loans, so the current consequences of state, population and economy are the result of high interest because incomes stagnate or fall. When these two segments of growth are missing, the social product falls significantly because the domestic economy is unable to make up for it. Domestic companies are low-capital, below 30%, high-indebted, often inequitable and insolvent, and to a greater extent and technologically outdated. Tax policy significantly burdens labour, but also a large number of... tax duties burdens the cost of costing and affects competitiveness. It is these segments of recent years that have made efforts to train at least parts of firms in difficulty to continue their business and retain certain employment and to encourage investment and exports. I'll give you just a few examples. On several occasions, tax debt can be regulated through the reprogramme. Premarital settlements have been introduced, regardless of criticism, they still produce results in one part. Further reduction of certain... tax duties has been continued, higher allocations to HABOR's core capital which continues to be more favourable lending, especially investment at the price of capital and equity, thus making up for one part the absence of such business banking activities. The exemption of income tax payments for part of the profits being reinvested has been introduced, tax deductions have been increased and more favourable tax rates allocated on income and the like, investment-enhancing laws have been passed, order in finance through fiscalisation, investment-enhancing, legalisation of illegally-made facilities, and thus land-booking, thus facilitating investment. However, the recovery process is slow and long, and is burdened with a mentality that hardly accepts change. There is, unfortunately, no political or social agreement that is necessarily slowing down or completely holding back the necessary reforms. Although there are indications and positive trends in GDP declines in the two quarters of 2014, since trade in goods is growing, the coverage of goods exports is increasing, production is growing in the processing industry, tourism growth continues. The most valuable result of the economy is exports growing faster in 2014 than imports. By 8 months, exports to EU member states have increased by 3.8 billion kuna and not by another billion kuna, while imports from EU member countries have increased by 3.3 billion and not by 0.4 billion kuna. Unfortunately, negative trends continue in gross investment, fall in the construction sector, a high unemployment rate and low employment, and particularly concerns low employment in the real sector. The structure of the unemployed by education and age does not give optimism for faster changes without additional investment in the retraining or reform of the education system that will not recruit people at the Employment Service, and these are long-term processes. We were also discussing the Education Strategy last week. To remove the excessive deficit, the government has drawn up measures and programmes in accordance with the European Commission's guidelines. An economic platform has been adopted, defining 4 main directions for action to exit the crisis, as regards the introduction of order, consolidation of state finances, restructuring and rationalisation of the state and public sector and recovery and new economic growth. In March, the parliament adopted on this basis the rebalancing of the state budget, and the government adopted a National Reform Programme defining structural reforms, and a convergence plan defining the key characteristics of macroeconomic and fiscal policy. In the follow-up, the implementation of these two documents will actually need to be monitored because both the European Commission and the European Council do so. Thus, in June of Croatia, recommendations from the European Council on the National Programme for the Reform of Opinions on the Convergence Programme have been delivered, assessing that Croatia has taken measures to reduce deficits and proposes to implement structural reforms. It points out that further adjustments should be made in 2015 particularly in the implementation of budgetary measures through stronger control on the expenditure side of the budget. The Council shall set a deadline until March 2015 for a thorough audit of budgetary expenditure and further measures to improve the business environment through a reduction of administrative requirements and paratax charges. The Council is seeking a detailed plan for the management of public property, and to strengthen the role of courts in monitoring pre-fashion settlements. The Council recommends 8 measures related to the budget, retirement, labour law, social protection, business environment, property management, judiciary, banking system, and on these elements, in fact, we should also seek political and social agreement if we want to realise all that we have in these three years of some kind of moratorium to reduce budget revenues and expenditure in normal. Not bringing deficits into the planned frameworks can make it impossible for us to slow down or threaten the use of European funds. Budgetary revenues and expenditures are planned in a way to increase revenue through higher tax duties through excise duties or other means, by returning health insurance rates, and by keeping or reducing expenditure compared to the previous year. The half-year income of 55.6 billion is 48% of the planned revenues, but are higher with 6.6% than last year's achievements. The result is an increase in the contribution as a higher health insurance rate has been recovered, and a transfer of the accumulated assets of the second pension column for the benified work experience. Tax revenues are lower than in 2013 by around 3% primarily due to the decline in VAT and customs revenues. Customs duties will have a minimal impact on revenue in the next period. The expenditures were made at around 64 billion, which is 49% of the plan and are somewhere at the 2013 level for half a year. Some expenditures are not evenly burdened by the budget, so they need to be taken into account. For example. Subsidies are paid at 65% of the planned amount and will be slightly less burdened by the budget in the second half. A significantly higher cost in 2014 is especially in this first term, a contribution to EU membership which was not available in the first half of last year, and a greater commitment to interest made in around 500 million kunas over a year or in the mid-term of 2013. The deficit is estimated at around 8 billion, down from 2013 but this is due mostly to the single payment of the pension contribution for the benefited employment. Therefore, by the end of the year, the deficit will be difficult to keep at the planned level if the first half-year tax revenue trend continues, especially not realising revenue from value added tax. It should be taken into account that in 2015 the deficit should be reduced to 3.5 and 2016. 2.7% of GDP as given in the guidelines when the European Commission or the European Council introduced the excessive deficit process to the Croatian budget. Therefore, the 2015 budget will have to have bigger cuts on the spending side if the deficit in the programmed size is to be maintained or GDP is to be increased, i.e. investment and employment compared to 2014. The fact is that only economic growth and employment are sustainable and high-quality factors in the growth of budget revenues and only in such circumstances can we reduce the tax audit which we are aware exists on the real sector in Croatia. And in this way it is possible not only to reduce existing rates but also to extend the tax base in the recommendations of the European Council, or to cover those incomes that are not taxed today. It is then a real assumption of a steady and long-term growth in the economy. Members and members of the SDP club will accept the report for the first half of the implementation of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88801	Thank you. Vice President, we have a replica of Martin Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88802	Thank you very much. Dear Mrs. Zgrebec, you have devoted part of your presentation to reforms and in the form of modal verbs, you should, you should. You, Mrs. Zgrebec, speak from the position of the party leading the ruling coalition. So from that position, you should be able to talk about these reforms much more specifically if you really think about reforms and if you actually see some implementation there. However, it is very difficult to actually believe that there is an actual intention to start changes in Croatia, for example. we now have in the public debate a strategy for the development of state and public administration in which you see some potentially more significant reform moves forecasting after 2017. Who knows if you'll be able to do any of that at all. And do you really think Croatia has time to, say, wait in this segment until 2017. It was also talked about the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance and its exclusion from the Treasury. So don't you think maybe if you decided to make such a move then you should also present a reform or a real change in the way HZZO works that will prevent those costs. What I'm saying is, the reforms you're talking about are not looking for and taking measures that will remain the same. They mean change and unfortunately I don't see in what the government is doing that change except for the safe announcement of new taxes. Because as far as I can tell on the Economic and Social Council, new interest taxes have been discussed, on capital gains, so that's actually going beyond the good taste level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88803	Thank you. Vice President Zgrebec's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88804	By adopting the Convergence and Plan Plan, the National Reform Plan has actually outlined all reforms to be implemented in Croatia. I would prefer that you, as a minister in the former government, started to implement such reforms that the government brought in, I think, in 2010 or 2011. Among other things, the monetization of Croatian highways and if this were realized 4 or 5 years ago today, the Croatian budget would be in a completely different form than it is today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88805	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives Slavko Linić, Branko Vuksic, colleague Slavko Linić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88806	I thank Mr. Vice President, Deputy and Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Maybe you'd keep a little bit more on macroeconomic data. Here he appears in debates of two thoughts. One is that they are unrealistically foreseen in the budget regarding macroeconomic movements and the other is ineffectiveness of the government. And I would very clearly like to say on behalf of the club that it is a matter of unreal planning optimistically but ineffectiveness and the unhappiness of the government. It's the biggest problem why our macroeconomic movements don't come true. It's enough to look at the estimates, which is why the social gross product is going down, so you'll see for the most part, because there's no growth in permanent capital, there's no investment that it's a simple submerge of almost 3.5%. And when we look at the government's budget, then you'll see that basically a large share of investment in permanent capital just had state investments, state investments. And we remain on the theory of private capital or state capital but the state investments had a significant share for 2014. What kind of investment is that? First of all, about energy and infrastructure. What kind of energy? And two refineries in the INI and HEP investments in the thermal power plant and hydropower plant. HEP's investments in electricity transmission. And of course when we talk about infrastructure, first of all, railways and ports. First of all, railways and ports. Now can we agree that it was unreal planning rather than ineffective government? Still no solution to the relationship between two INA owners and we don't know what the fate of the refinery is. The programmes are over, these are investments that should have been completed at the latest in 2005, so it was expanded in 2009, so they should have just ended up in this term, and we end the government's mandate, and we don't know what to do with investing in two refineries, and these two refineries mean a huge number of investment employees, in the production of the necessary materials, repromation, I'd say investment equipment in INA. Shall we talk about electricity? The Plomin thermal power plant, projects finished, conflicts with me would say strategy, whether it will be coal or gas, but there is no solution, and this is the third year of the coalition government's mandate. And there's no investment, so someone's responsible for not having investments. These two projects know it's a huge investment. Shall we talk about railways that simply cannot meet the requirements of transporting goods? We want to be a country with a huge power of transition transport, sea transport on the Adriatic Sea route, not only Europe but also the eastern part of the Balkan peninsula, and we don't have simply efficient railways, we don't have railways. We don't have railroads that can handle a little decent speed, not high speeds. Then we ask ourselves, "What's with the railroad?" We've been listening to bail issues all morning. No more subsidising freight traffic, it's a market category of business, there simply has to be efficiency or decision to close. So remember, failed privatisation, selected wrong partner, no negotiations have been completed. Since January of this year we do not know what is wrong with the railway, what is with freight transport in the railways, and these are the reasons that nothing has been done to restructure a company that is inefficient, too many employees, too many labour rights by contracts, etc., etc. Nothing's been solved, the 10th month is up. Nothing's been solved. What does that mean? It's the cost we'll have, we'll have it. But something else is going on, the infrastructure that's supposed to be the engine of development, the investment in railroads, it lowers the price to 50% for the track. Why, because neither a passenger nor a freighter can pay, which means there's no justification for tomorrow's investment. We're going to have a hard time withdrawing funds, and for a simple reason, there's no money coming into the infrastructure because other than the tariff being released, there's no charge. State-owned companies are agreeing to pay each other and yet I would say subsidising freight transport that is completely inefficient to restructuring. I can accept investment in passenger traffic, why, because there at least we're building new light compositions because it's the only reason I'd say the passenger traffic stays, so that the transportation of passengers to Croatia is maintained, but not with heavy compositions but with modern compositions. And the Croatian industry is doing, the only thing we can find to justify it. Yes, there is no answer for those who are guilty of having no investment in HEP, INA and for such failures in the Croatian Railways. But also one of the engines of economic growth was the withdrawal of funds from the European Union and investment in thousands and thousands of small projects. That's not working either, and we're seeing the report. So much for state investments that could have had an impact on economic growth. Let's get back to the private sector. Did we get an analysis of what's going on in the private sector? The private sector has invested too much in real estate business. Did he take it apart? So let's give a review of what's going on with the bankruptcy proceedings, which is the pre-banking procedure, which is with the Financial Business Act, the payment deadlines, and then we'll slowly see that we still have a huge problem after three years. The private sector is not in debt, the banking sector still has too many claims, does not participate actively in I would say private sector debt, so this is the reason that the private sector cannot be entrusted, cannot go into new projects and is uncompetitive to go and export to the euro. Yeah, that's the situation, with all the measures in three years that we've spent improving in the private sector we don't have. And anyway, let's analyze what's most dangerous, indifference and then we deal with it, let's not charge VAT unless it's a bill, instead of going to talk about why when we have the law, we don't enforce the law and we don't insist on paying. Because payments threaten both large and small, and they should be the backbone of exports because of the non-compliance with the Financial Business Act, we have no solution. But also with all the objections to pre-fashion settlements, give me a five thousand of the cases were rejected in pre-fashion settlements, how much did the court open up bankruptcy, how much efficiency did it show? It's all shown, there's no will to settle, the debtor is incurable, he's sick, he's so hard, he needs to be resolved by bankruptcy. What have the courts solved, do we have those reports? We don't. So what can we seriously talk about when we talk about an analysis like this? Therefore, I am afraid that even in 2014 with such ignorance because we do not know why there is no economic activity, state investment, private investment, regular business, export growth, we will not permanently address the issue of economic growth, and thus neither income in the budget. Now we go back to revenue and we see that the revenues in the good part of growth are not for an increase I would say certain taxes because it was a need to increase revenues, but partly because we entered Europe, so these are obligations of harmonisation on excise duties and on tobacco and on fuel and I would say some other excise duties such as excise duties on electricity. And they give effect, and they will give effect. It's an increase. The increase in health rate is not good, it's not good. That's why we have less pay, that we have incompetence. But let's look at the biggest problem in the income side, which is income based on the pension contribution. On average, they don't count now these three billion extraordinary revenues are around 19 and a half billion, 19 and a half billion constants. And how much are the expenses? 36 billion kuna. What does that mean? That the economy doesn't pay enough for its workers when they retire. Are we going to increase the rate? Well, that doesn't occur to anyone, but it was necessary to reduce the health rate and increase this rate. Yeah, it's politics. Our permanent problem is prematurely retired people, a failed conversion, privatisation and a terrible proportion of about 16 billion kunas missing in retirement. And we don't add any importance to that. That's why we have a bigger VAT, that's why we have to fight to move our health contribution to other taxable incomes of citizens like property, real estate, whatever you want, and so we can get rid of the pension system. These are the permanent sources of our imbalance, these are our biggest problems recorded in the budget. Therefore, until we start dealing with how to increase the rate of pension contributions, and that it is not an impact on the economy, on workers' salaries and how to permanently ensure that the greater income of the Peace Fund is not solved by our deficit problems. And now we go back to spending. Once again, we can only determine the government has not done what it predicted itself. The National Reform Plan is the government's plan, the government wrote it itself. I won't tell you how many hours I've been sitting around that plan, and in that plan you have a day, a month and a kuna we'll save in this year, next year, and I don't know 2016. Yeah, that's what the government wrote. So, on the basis of this and the convergence plan, it is just as clear as dynamic and valuable, which means that we have also foreseen social reforms and reforms in the administration and reforms in the pension system and reforms in the health system. All of this is provided for by date and amount. Do we even have a grade in six months? We don't. Can we expect all of this to be realised in the second half of 2014? He won't. Most of it doesn't. The administration has given up, the unfounded activities have dropped, any reforms and changes will be discussed in the health system. There's no change in the education system. Yes, government programs don't respect ministers themselves. However, you have the last message and the Prime Minister who says we will not do it because it is not good for the citizens of Croatia. Come on, I wouldn't say someone forced it on us. No! No! We brought it ourselves, this government brought it. It's not respected by ministers, it's not implemented and there's no sanctions, it's justified that we don't, because it's not good. Therefore, we will not be in the second term because we see that so far the importance of these reforms has not been achieved. Can we expect that in 2015? We can't. And then what's the basic problem that's gonna come up? We can't raise our income more significantly. Some income that can still be made is a tax on interest income, and we can't reduce expenditure without reforms, and that just means there won't be any extraordinary income, there won't be any additional income, there won't be more than economic activity. That means the uncontrollable deficit again. And after that, only one measure will be taken by the European Commission to end the excessive deficit procedure and set out itself a programme that the government must implement. It will then be imposed on the programme and strict control whether or not the Government respects it. Now I'm asking why we need someone to run it for us when we wrote it ourselves how we should do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88807	Thank you. We continue with the replicas, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88808	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You have rightly pointed out that the government's incompetence is the reason for the failure of macroeconomic objectives, i.e. indicators in this year as well as in previous years. In this sense, you have particularly done a lack of investment, you have talked about energy and transport investments, especially in the railway industry, and you have mentioned the poor use of European funds in this regard. I will tell you that one of the reasons is certainly both lack and failure to produce, the lack of a Transport Development Strategy that should have already been adopted as the basis for signing a partnership agreement and operational programmes which could be the basis for using these funds. But when I mention this traffic strategy for the development of the Republic of Croatia, I will tell you that, for example, according to the South of Croatia Transport Strategy, Dubrovnik was not planned by means of a transport connection, but you heard that, Prime Minister Milanovic told Cavtat on August 25th about the possibility of connecting the south of Croatia through the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, not that the fact that we are not going to link Dubrovnik through Croatia will continue to be traffic-free Dubrovnik, but rather something worse with the basis of national interests, which is that the total traffic from Greece, Albania and Montenegro will be rerouted through Trebinje to... or Mostar and then either the VC Corridor or the Banja Luka Connector towards Central Europe. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which means that the road A1 that goes from Ploč to Split, Zadar and Dubrovnik will be empty, and it will remain kudikamo without traffic more than it is today because all traffic will be redirected to BiH. I would like to tell you that not only will the south of Croatia continue to be roadless but we will make the funds we invested in the construction of our own roads, first of all A1, completely unnecessary because we will reroute all traffic to another part and beyond the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88809	Thank you. Answer, colleague Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88810	As early as 2012, government experts who had to explain to their creditors and creditors how they saw economic growth were only 2 clear messages where we see the position for economic growth. Too much energy imports, which means production of electricity, turning completely on exports, and on the other hand I would say small, small oil imports, more domestic gas and I would say 100% domestic energy or oil derivatives. And what was most important was strengthening Croatian ports in transit jobs, which means connecting ports with only railways. Because we had highways, one part of the traffic can go, the ports can only be competitive with the railroad. And that also means medium Dalmatian and Rijeka and Pula plus Ploče in the southern part of Dalmatia. All these ports can function if they have a good railroad, a high-quality, competitive railroad. Therefore, restructuring of Croatian railways was under number one, saving cargo traffic on the railways, so that we would simply not leave all the burden to one-sided carriers. At this point I estimate that we really need to open the tracks as soon as possible, start investing in railways, and unfortunately the burden to leave to foreign railways for the reason that we haven't saved cargo traffic. But what's important, why the railroad? Well, because 80% is the amount of return we can get from the EU, so it's just that, however long-term investment it is, it's a big investment business.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88811	Thank you. Drazen Djurovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88812	Thank you. You mentioned it several times in your discussion and looked back at the railroads. We had an example of HZ infrastructure where it was visible that some meaningful things started to happen, where the restructuring started, in fact, of companies, where the works started on a series of tracks and then the entire administration was actually being replaced for completely unclear reasons. I think, therefore, one of the few examples of some systems that were more functional within the government's mandate where some positive steps occurred suddenly that entire set was removed from HZ infrastructure. We had an example of HPB, one administration that had good results at the head of the HPB, so that this administration would again, for completely unknown reasons, be removed from the HPB. So, and that little administration that showed good results just disappears in time, obviously in some weird cleaners. When it comes to priorities, there is, of course, a question of who has a vision or idea of what is really a priority and how can Croatia get out of recession in the first place. You're an economist, I'm not, my idea of this is not a question of strengthening the burdens and extracting the burdens of income structure but actually is my humble idea of this issue of employment growth, the number of people who work in this country. Because today Croatia faces the fact that it works less than 1.4 million in Croatia. With this level of employment in Croatia, we cannot expect to leave the crisis, we can pour it out as we please. I think we should actually focus all the measures on the issue of employment, the growth of the number of employees in order to reach the desired million and a half or two million in the coming years.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88813	Thank you. Answer, colleague Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88814	I don't want much on the staff for the reason it's obvious that a good part of the failed personnel in managing public resources is responsible for non-investment, non-investment. When it comes to rail infrastructure personnel policy, there is a difference. The people who were there who were involved in restructuring, the desire to invest. The policy-leading minister I'd say something more global to him was interested in how to maintain the cargo and the passenger cargo without subsidies, so he cut the price of the fee for the routes. So that's why we haven't opened the route yet to foreign carriers, so we're jeopardizing traffic in a port that's moving somewhere else. And we're not saying that when it comes to the charge every president of the administration is responsible for the charge, so simply any pressure to collect carg's claim is disputed by the minister. And that's why the conflict, the conflict of concepts and responsibilities, so I wouldn't get involved. But I agree with you, we have a fundamental problem, and in the pension system, we have a million and 360 thousand employees, we have almost a million and 300 thousand pensioners. And so we can feed the Pension Fund under a million and 700 employees hard to find a solution. But what are the measures to reach a million and 700? Well, it's certainly an active investment policy in foreign countries and energy infrastructures in the first place, and of course I'd say healing the private sector that has to be due for failures in previous years that went the wrong way in order to be competitive in placement towards Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88815	Thank you. Next replica Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88816	Dear fellow Linic, I could call this a first-hand analysis, what you were saying is not only criticism but it is actually a sign of how the government should have done it. The government gave up itself, gave up all those reforms that were written at the beginning and which were promised here from this speaker in early 2012. I disagree, I think that before Domagoj Milosevic said that the private sector is the only one who can only open jobs. History is full of denial and thesis because public works, public enterprises, state-owned enterprises can also do very well to create jobs. What you just said is too little work. If we had gone into those reforms that were announced, that it had gone into investments in energy, investments in the railways, to control whether the INA had met those commitments it had undertaken and instead of meeting, it does everything to make employment less, so that the industrial potential of Croatia would be lower. Then the picture would be quite different, there would be no employment ratio and the ratio of those who retired almost 1:1. So, if it had gone into all those energy projects that you listed, if it had been going into the construction of the railroad that it was, you said in your debate they were not meeting the requirements for the transport of goods, then we could count on the greater capacity of Luke Rijeka and the picture would be quite different. So, this criticism addressed to the government is saying enough that it's starting off the road that it's plotted and actually in the last year it's very hard to fix anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88817	Thank you. Answer, colleague Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88818	I agree with you that if you have listened to our colleagues' discussions from other clubs, the main problem is economic growth, and economic growth only ensures investment. Is investment a domestic market where as much as we say we must open up the free market and for other EU members, however, means a greater challenge for domestic and construction workers, and equipment manufacturers, and equipment manufacturers. Why, they're closer, they're home and they can be more competitive. Therefore, state investments play a huge role, especially when we are aware that the private sector in the Republic of Croatia is, apart from pharmaceuticals, over-indebted electronics with a completely wrong investment, a completely wrong investment in real estate. And that, first of all, these wrong investments need to be disbursed, certain restructurings need to be implemented in order to be competitive. The Croatian market is insufficient, especially if there are no investments, which means they must be competitive, that they must go to export. And that moment, we will have more exports and a chance to have a higher export rate again. But first they have to be proven on the domestic market, and to prove themselves on the domestic market, it is an important area of state investment. I don't just mean energy, traffic, I mean local self-government that needs more savings, and I mean investment in social standards because they're jobs, and they're bigger wages. And we need to understand direct investment means more early spots, but it means stronger and better wages. And at that moment, it is also more consumer power, and more consumption, which is again one of the segments of economic growth.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88819	Thank you. Jadranka Kosor, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88820	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Linic, you said it wasn't unrealistic planning. It was not the government's work. Of course we are discussing a half-year budget report for 2014 we are discussing the budget that you signed as Minister of Finance and, of course, finally the Government. So, I wouldn't say it's just not the government's work, but I'd say it's a bad plan after all. And I'm saying that based on my experience here's the third budget that we're discussing and the third budget that we've discussed and all those decisions, for example, reducing contributions to health insurance, and then reducing VAT to tourism and many others are an expression, that is, they were part of that planning. And in all the years so far in the term of this government, for example, there was a lack of funds at the end of the year for salaries and at the Ministry of Education, I have already mentioned it, and in the Ministry of the Interior. Therefore, revenues were unrealized but also expenses. So it's about both of us. I agree with you that in those government moves that are related for example to announced exorcising, then spin off etc. The government is showing impotence because it's giving up what she stood for. And as for putting roads into concessions, we now see that it is possible that the prime minister may have entered some of his announcements into conflict with the Constitution, and some of the EU's legislative frameworks, namely us as EU members. So it's all about what we're discussing today and we're discussing bad planning and bad work.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88821	Thank you. My colleague Linic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88822	Well, I wouldn't talk about bad planning, so maybe it's your right to have that kind of approach, but, you know, pay isn't just a bunch of employees and it's not just a sum of multiplications with coefficients. The salary also has certain reforms, the number of educational staff is not rational. The minister planned and was obliged to change certain things. Not only that, you know how many conflicts over individual material expenditures for employees where, for example, management and some other parts that draw money in the state budget have reduced the allocations for employees and corrected collective agreements as in healthcare, there was no education. Therefore, it is always basic when budgetary size is established, the minister is obliged to respect it, and he knows what he must do to respect it, but unfortunately we have irresponsible minister behaviour. He believes that there is no need to respect and that is what many of them today have not understood, which means fiscal responsibility because fiscal responsibility is the responsibility for the figures in the budget, so they are not interested in respecting what the budget is. Well, you know, given your predecessors at the ministry, the ministry doesn't enter data, they're ministries. If only then they knew what they had entered, what figures they had entered, had responsibility for those figures, but obviously responsibility in Croatia is a problem. And then I'm just saying, let's say, let's say, what might be the problem of planning because if you know there's going to be investment, development, investment, then you go with some measures in part of the financial business that obviously are even counterproductive if others don't do their job.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88823	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88824	Thank you very much. Mr. Linic, I'm not an economist, but some things are from your exposure, let me say, stuck to my ear. You talked about the irresponsibly of the minister and then about, even the government's dissatisfaction, and also about the fact that I publicly said that giving up actually structural reforms, whether in the social, pension, health insurance, etc., and we all know well, and you said yourself that half of the RH budget is a pension fund and... for HZZO. So 35 and 22, that's 57 billion kuna. That's half the Republic of Croatia's budget. But you yourself said that economic growth alone, therefore, can contribute to the fact that the relationship between the number of employees and pensioners is such as to ensure safe charging and pension, as well as health budget. Our ministers, I'd add to that, and you didn't say it, really behave like you see from the last moves, like drunk rich people. It's like they're not aware of their environment, where they live, and what that budget is. Well, you said, indeed, there really is one dissatisfaction of the government, the refusal of structural reforms, and here we have an example of a minister of education who, for the second year in a row, thinks it's only 11 months a year. And I suppose to hand in to his Prime Minister, he writes the budget in 11 months, not 12 months, and then the uncertain salary of an educator is last December and this year in December. So what's the scam? So they're used to deception, fraud, non-execution, giving up structural reforms, all to show up, but they can't... Europe, as you said yourself, is wrong to show anything. Europe knows exactly what to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88825	Thank you. Answer, colleague Linic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88826	So that I could strengthen this irresponsibility of the minister, then one of my own experiences. You know what my greatest enthusiasm was? With the Secretary of Defense. You know what it means to cut expenses, pay and the rest in defense? For all of us inconceivable, the defence ministers have never done that. Tell me which minister is the most resolute in the implementation of the budget items. Croatian Defence Minister. Yes, when he got that he had to cut wages, he cut them down, but not that he cut people down, he rationalized, he reduced the number, so ministers show that you can be responsible, and that's why I'm talking to the Minister of Science, who you expect most because he sells knowledge, he educates youth, he doesn't do anything. The Secretary of Defense, whom you expect the Rigid, the soldier, shows how responsible he is to this. It's something that unfortunately the Prime Minister himself won't see. And on the likes of certain ministers... if he could, so must you. And they had opportunities. It is a problem of responsibility and some Croatian ministers show how responsible they are. It's not easy, you look at the pay, the constant pay drops for 3 years, except for internal affairs and what's called, education. No, and that's the Minister's irresponsibility. And now there's something else, when we talk about the Prime Minister's responsibility. Do you know how many hours are lost? It's six months of intensive work of all structures, from the Minister down, who worked on the programme of reforms and the convergence, wrote every stupidity, all calculated, dates, all agreed on some table, that he finally said,... we were joking, it's not for the Croatian people. Great, then Europe will say what is for the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88827	Thank you. Goran Maric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88828	Thank you very much. Comrade Linic, you spoke of two aspects, the inreality of macroeconomic assessments and ineffectiveness of the government and you said it was ineffectiveness of the government, but they are not unrealistic. In terms of the needs of Croatian society, projections are insufficient even, but from the aspect of the government's effectiveness are unrealistic because if we have an inefficient government, then... projections and depending on the results of projections on the ineffectiveness of the government, then they are also shown to be unrealistic, especially since they have been teaching us this for the past 2 years. But you've made it very clear the difference between state and private issues and you've said that there is no investment from the point of view of the state, insufficient use of European funds. Well, there are people who are in charge of this, so it is not up to Croatia to invest in parliamentary deputies, there are ministers, there are vice-presidents of the government and for the use of funds and for investment. But if those who are most responsible for the situation say that Croatia did not come out of the crisis because it was too mild to get into a crisis, so it is as if someone said we had a cold, so it takes us years to get rid of the cold, but if we had cancer, we would already be healthy. Ministers don't deal with what they're in charge of, but you can see how they deal with drivers, secretaries, evictions, arrangements, cars, not cost cuts, but increase. A minister insists on moving his ministry to a skyscraper where his assistant was part of the project and the construction. When you talk about private, you emphasized real estate business, so why doesn't VAT reduce to so many thousands of unsold, newly built by a certain percentage of apartments? Why not introduce a property tax and a second part of a property tax, not just a real estate tax? What about the equity stakes, what about the stock, what about the entire portfolio? There's room to cut real estate tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88829	Thank you. My colleague Linic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88830	I agree with you that in addition to the reform on the expenditure side where we will have to adapt very much the cost side of the state budget to the opportunities of the economy and citizens who finance it with taxes, it is far, far more important what we do to strengthen economic activity in Croatia. And that's what every government does if it succeeds and shows important changes that make it a successful government. Three years of mandate, in which three years of the mandate of a truly necessary investment, we need electricity production because this year we have enough rain, but in a year, two of us will have a drought once again we will come to 50% of the imports if we do not have electricity production. It's absurd that we used to open and plant refinery in the world, and now we're closing the refinery and importing derivatives, that's knowledge, that's high education, that's a professional workforce well-paid labour, so that's an interest, that's what we have to fight for. A partner if he won't make a mistake, he shouldn't have come, let him pay the price. But it's the government's job to fight for such jobs. A third year of mandate is unacceptable to fight over it, and you can now say that some of the people in the government have been able to overestimate their abilities, but there is no reason why we should not be ambitious, is there simply a strategic position for Croatia that we should use and therefore we need infrastructure, but we also have enormous knowledge and drives that should not have been shut down.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88831	Thank you. And the last replica of the Djuro Drinker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88832	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You spoke about the causes and in your presentation but also in the number of responses to replicas of this condition you clearly indicated where they lie, so in the complete incompetence of this government in all segments. So you've been talking about a complete blockade of the public sector and, of course, the biggest part of the objection and you're directing to public enterprises where, despite the bombing announcements at the beginning of the mandate, we see that practically nothing is happening, that there are no investments and the most necessary ones, which is the restoration of energy potential, the energy sector. However, I disagree that this is the only thing that can and should be the point of all policies, the point of getting out of the crisis is certainly the recovery of the private sector. And you mentioned that despite the numerous measures, the private sector is unable to resuscitate and can't resuscitate. Yesterday I spoke to the only successful entrepreneur from Međimurje who asks the question, why if I produce more, if I export more, if I employ more people, if I earn more and less. The simple answer is that the pressure of the state and the public sector is increasing, that operating costs are growing and that despite excellence, this pressure cannot simply follow. And that's what the government has been doing for the past three years. And where's the end of it? What will happen when this is evened out, when there will be no more opportunities to cut wages or employees? There's gonna be a shut-down. And this is a key problem for the recovery of the Croatian private sector, and without it there is no recovery of society.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88833	Thank you. My colleague Linic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88834	Let's try to follow the tax story. The biggest contribution problem, with this increase remained as in 2011 is one of the greatest burdens. So neither plus nor minus. When we look at income tax, we don't have a higher income tax, but the highest rate is even down, so we don't have an increase. There remains parafiscal impositions, let's be honest in that part the government did something, one part of the parafiscal burden was reduced and it was even the programme in 2012 and 2013. Their profits were taxed, the tax rate on dividends was introduced. It has nothing to do with business, it's his profit. It must be participated as well as a worker who pays his income tax. On the other hand, it is excluded from the ease of accounting when we also observe VAT, car use,... Why? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've assessed if everyone goes to savings, and they should go to savings. What has made business conditions worse? I'm not going to talk about that VAT entry we've raised to 230 grand, that we've determined if we reinvested the profits that don't have to pay the tax. So I have to say I don't know where that extra taxation is. I can accept that it is less competitive because it is a higher VAT rate but the higher VAT rate is also for import goods. So what is the problem with these entrepreneurs? And then we slowly come that the uncertainty of business, that these are unpaid realisations, ineffectiveness of the judiciary, and therefore there were additional measures by the government to mitigate the consequences of inefficient justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88835	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88836	Thank you very much, dear fellow Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Deputy Minister. Since today in these discussions several times, several dozen times the word "saving" has been mentioned, I will begin with it but only briefly. These days, we are witnessing great savings efforts in the state budget, so a minister has been trying for days to convince the public that by moving to a private facility they called Zagreb Tower will save significant state resources. And that skyscraper will be turned into a fortress for environmental protection. The fact that the media is trying to prove that there is no saving anyone from power didn't suggest that the truth was finally presented to the public. We also made large austerity measures when we adopted rules on the management of specific types of waste, not the municipal but the specific ones. So only one entrepreneur in Croatia with several of its businesses meets the prescribed conditions so that jobs do not get and do not have to win in competitions because it is only one. These are all the moves that are reflected and the ones when we talk about saving and responsible behaviour towards taxpayers' money are not the subject of budgets but it is the result. And if I calculated correctly from the presented materials of business income or business revenue in the first 6 months of this year, compared to the planned ones, by 2.75 billion, 2 billion 750 million compared to the annual plan when we take half of that bribe is by 2.75 billion in business revenues. When you go into a structure where there's been the biggest subroutine, then it's revenue from the title of taxes on goods and services. For how long? For 2 billion and 750 million. So the biggest bribery in business revenues is revenue from the tax on goods and services and these amounts are exactly the same. Why are these tax revenues lower? Or why can they be smaller? Let's just say the taxes are reduced, but they're not. That tax evasion was increased, but it didn't, especially after the introduction of fiscalization. The third reason is reduced consumption. There may be a fourth, a fifth, a sixth, but I'm going to stop at this 3. So I don't believe there are reduced taxes, I don't believe there's been an increase in tax evasion, but I think there's been a decrease in consumption. Who pays taxes on goods and services? The end consumer. A citizen. They paid 2 billion 750 million less taxes. Why? Because they have less money. When the process began, when the whole concept of GDP growth and the development of Croatian society rested on public investment, counterpart Linic talked about it earlier which were lagging behind. On the other hand, the repressive austerity measure as a magic wand for saving the Croatian economy. And here are the consequences of 2 billion 750 million less taxes on goods and services. And we can continue with the same approach, the same policy, and at the end of the year to realize that it will be 5 billion less, well maybe the tourist season slightly balances it, but not much. Because I don't believe he's the author of the draft of this budget, and that's what my colleague Linic was so wrong about assessing possible tax revenues on goods and services. Health insurance revenues have also been undermined. When mentioning a pension that had achieved slightly greater income than planned, that was the consequence, it was said by transferring about 3 billion if I did not cheat from the second pillar to the first pillar. Why was that done? Because he took that money that was paid in the second pillar for insurance companies who had no right to retire from the moment the law was passed. Who and why he decided that although it was prescribed that these insurance companies only have the right to retire to generation solidarity from the first pillar anyway 5% contribute to the second pillar. And for years, the pension funds of the second pillar of the three billion were spinning. Who and why did he deceive those insurance companies and convince them that they would exercise pension law from that title? And then they had a shock when they had to realize that it wasn't like that and that their money, as they thought they were transferred to generational solidarity. No one has ever answered that question to these people, and it is a large number of citizens of this country. Substitute income for health care, 600 million, not much, significant. That pension plus is about a billion and 250. According to the knowledge that we have in our club after spending 3.2 billion planned to resuscitate the health system, there will remain 600 million outstanding liabilities from earlier years and it is projected that commitments, debts from 31.12 this year will be new one billion and a half, which suggests that the health system will enter the next year with 2 billion and 100 minuses, debts, losses, whatever you want. It's projections, not exact numbers, because that's how it's projected. But now I'd ask if there's a debt to health insurance. We can lamentate and argue that all of this is taxpayer money, but the fact remains that there is a law in this country that prescribes, for example, that the Croatian Employment Service for unemployed persons who are entitled to health care, health insurance must pay 5% of the contributions on the lowest basis. The lowest base at this time is 2779.25 kuna. So it is stipulated in the law that the Employment Service for the unemployed who, by the letter of the law, have the right to be users of health insurance and not pay the contributions they make but the Croatian Employment Service. Half a billion this year. Is it prescribed in the law that the Ministry of Justice must account for 5% of the contributions on the lowest basis because they too have the right to health? Yes, 7.5 million kuna. Is it prescribed that pension insurance for pensioners is greater than the average 3% of contributions for health insurance? Yeah, 75 million kuna this year. Is it prescribed that 3% of defense pensions are higher than the average of 3% of contributions? 77 million this year. Is it prescribed that pensions are less than average contributions for health insurance? Yes, 300 million kuna this year. These are the legal obligations made on behalf of taxpayers by the Croatian Parliament and said that each year they will carry out those obligations according to health insurance. And when we add 15% of the contributions to compulsory health insurance, 0.5% of the contributions to work injuries and occupational diseases, that is about 18 billion 200 contributions that are legally part of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. Philosophering about that in one register, it doesn't matter who it's intended for simply doesn't hold water, because it's the same as if someone said we had plans to build a highway but we didn't build highways but tracks, so that doesn't matter. It's not. But that's not all. It is prescribed that the right for healthcare users to be 22 categories and nationals of the Republic of Croatia and foreigners who find themselves in Croatia, which is around 2 million and 34 thousand, should be entitled to health insurance, and in this year, a billion and 100 million kuna should be allocated from the state budget for this purpose. From the tobacco tax to the health system in this year would have been about a billion and 200, out of insurance car liability of about 115 million kuna, that's more than 21 billion kuna. Back in 15 years when, in my opinion, the accident of HZO's health system entered the Treasury and it was the wrong move... To the budget, thank you, colleague Shucker, for the correction. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That is why you are here to correct us because you are also one of the ministers who has not fulfilled this obligation in all these 15 years. My colleague Shuker may be banging, but it's true, and you can deny that truth only by the fact that we've invented a copy of the proofs, and at the end of the year or in the middle of the year when the health institutions collapsed, when the major drugstores stopped comparing drugs, then we've invented health care recoverys, so the state from the budget has rescheduled the losses of health care, disbursed the counties last year and appointed not bankrupt but the rescheduling managers and said they'll resuscitate and show how well she can manage. But even in this year this obligation to the health system has not been met, the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and therefore loss will again be shown at the end of the year. That's why. This mantra that this is about taxpayers' money doesn't interest me because taxpayers are told what part of the IRS is used for. In this case, it is described in the law that it is used for health insurance to categories of citizens who are legally recognised the right to be health insurance users. And so long as from the state budget, the Pensions Institute, the Employment Service does not carry out the obligations prescribed by law I'm talking about debt to the health system, not the debt of the health system, but our debt to the health system. And if after that they have more expenses than income then they generate debt, only then. And, of course, I understand all those who think HZO has to stay in the Treasury because of the general liquidity of the budget, because of the possibility that one man, one man every morning, decides who to give to and whether to give. And that's how it's always been. And whoever is more politically powerful will get sooner, the one who is more politically weak will get later or not at all. And I think that the debate in the House is particularly necessary, because this House passed a Law on the Restitution of Public Institutions based on which the budget provided 3.2 billion kunas, and in the light of the law, it said that it would continue to be remedied in a positive manner. We're asking to make an inventory now. A year and 10 months have passed and we're looking for an inventory of the effects of that law. And then we'll see if he's reached. It's the same in retirement. It's a 16-billion-dollar pension from the state budget. And how much the pension system obligations are under the general pension rules and how much according to the special pension rules. So, for example, a billion and 700 pension insurance goes for a child's allowance. Is the child's allowance retirement insurance? And so we could line up now, but time's up. I've seen a lot of replica boards, so maybe it'll give me the opportunity to talk about this brilliant idea of getting pensioners into the monetization of highways.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88837	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88838	Thank you very much. I didn't mean to replicate what you said about the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, but since I'm in this mess and as an employee of the former hospital in Slavonski Brod, I have something to say. Namely, the rehabilitation and stabilisation of the health system was envisaged, one of these measures was the introduction of rehabilitation or, as you said, the bankruptcy directors of hospitals and we see that despite these measures throughout the Republic of Croatia, there will again be debt and debt and debt of around 2 billion kuna at the end of 2014. So I'm just wondering what, what was the point of introducing so-called. Renaissance, not to mention bankruptcy managers in Croatian hospitals. What immediately alarmed me on the replica, so I'm the first in line was actually this Zagreb Tower, so moving one ministry with the fund and the other, and then one of the employees who used to work at that company. So he says he's got nothing to do with that firm because he worked 10 years ago, like he didn't have any memory and acquaintance of the people from that firm that he could thank God for making whatever he wanted. He no longer knows them, for he has crossed all that he knew about them, and has no connection with them anymore. So, as counterpart Linic said, therefore there is not only irresponsible behavior, there is not only giving up structural reforms but rather behaviour like drunk rich people, namely ministers and those in agencies, etc., so in the sector. This report should therefore be called a report on the non-implementation of the state budget, not on implementation. Because as Mr. Linic said the plan, the deadlines, it's all scheduled but it didn't work out. [[Invader Batinić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88839	A colleague named Lesar will respond to the replica. Here's your colleague, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88840	It is precisely in the desire to make an inventory of the effect of the Law on the recovery of public institutions that should have served the recovery and health system that our proposal for a conclusion which was sent a few days ago in the procedure is the only business way to ask the Government for full information. And if it really is complete and shown, all of these aspects of the state's legal obligations towards health insurance, then we'll be clear what we're going to be going to next year, whether or not with 2 billion minus, if such intervention of the state especially the county hospital has produced results and whether the causes of the loss have been there or elsewhere. And as for this Zagreb fortress for environmental protection, there may be another entrepreneur who first built a skyscraper, and later entered the state government, and he will move his offices there.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88841	Thank you. Ivan Shuker, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88842	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Lesar, you have on page 471, official data that deny what you're saying. This is all you said you should consider that in the last two years the income from the health contribution was 15 billion, and the cost of health care when we add that recovery was 23 billion. So all of this together that you've been collecting is away from 8 billion and it's not good at one topic that's very complex, very complicated. It refers to 14 articles in the law to enter into, don't be angry, I apologize immediately for the casual way. The Treasury is one of the most capital structural reforms. And whoever's fighting it doesn't want the Republic of Croatia well. That's what I'm saying as a man who was headed by the Ministry of Finance. Every kuna must be in one place and be spent rationally. No one has the right to disappoint one percent, and the state owes 5%. We can talk whatever we want. Another thing children's allowance is not paid to a colleague, Lesar, out of retirement. Look at the page again... You said, Comrade Lesar, please be careful what you said. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The other thing, those who got pensions according to special regulations those people were working on. Some 10, some 15, some 20 years, and in their working life they made a pension contribution. The fact that they were injured in the war became disabled in one way or another, or the miners in the Labin mine, or those down in Split about this asbestos, they acquired the rights by virtue of that right that we gave them. But they paid one part of their lives for a health contribution. So we can't rule them out from this story. At the moment we passed this law we knew what we were bringing, so we gave them that right.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88843	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88844	Thank you, fellow Shuker. Of course I expected my colleague Shuker to be your replica, as former Minister of Finance. Well, that's expected. You will defend the State Treasury as the most brilliant asset because you are all ministers or persons from his closest trust... and decisions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the first one. Secondly, you yourself have fallen into the trap of your own delusions. Health contributions were at 16, costs at 20 15? [[/Intruder: 15.]] A little more, a little more. Why? Because these obligations were not fulfilled by the state according to the health system, only because. You can wave these papers now, you didn't pay and they don't pay both those before you and those after you. That's one thing. Secondly, I did not say that child benefits are paid out of retirement but are in the pension system, not to be paid out of retirement. ... Well, then they're in Zagreb Tower. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88845	Please, colleague Shuker. You don't have a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88846	And as for the special pensions... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88847	Comrade Shuker, please. You didn't get the word. Let's let a colleague go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88848	For the sake of the Croatian public with regard to special pensions, i.e. pensions obtained under special regulations, I have been troubled because that is what you do, and it is not correct when you talk about the means of contributions to pension insurance that the state must make up for in order to pay for pensions. Of course she did, because she made a bigger commitment to it. So, if at the moment of creating larger liabilities that are not the result of insurance, then that's the item in the budget and it's over. We are not paying for the pension system under the general pension rules, we are paying for special pension rights. That's what this is about. That's how we have to talk. ... It's a budget item and it has to be so when... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88849	Comrade Shuker, please don't abuse the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Lesar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88850	But I enjoy talking to him, you know.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88851	Here's your colleague, Lesar. Are you done? Thank you. Next replica, Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88852	Well, not to fall into the trap as former finance minister, but I would like to say very clearly to my colleagues that the rescue for both the Peace Fund and the health fund is part of the state budget for reasons that their expenditures are higher than their intended revenues. When we talk about the health system itself and what any debt to the outstanding legal obligations that are... the first thing to cover after last year came to health care recovery were the cubes and disadvantages in HZZO. So they covered up from all that. There's no debt, nothing at all. The only question remains that the different redistribution if it goes out will then be possible to execute and all the legal provisions that we have introduced will need to be implemented. Yeah, that's true. But what I'm saying and I want to make it very clear, and why do we think 15% of the health contribution belongs to HZZO? Well, that's not true. For all that the budget has to do, and that is for the unemployed and the sick and the like, the budget has to be implemented. The contribution rate can be for these needs and will be shared. And then you'll see what it is. And that's the losses in HZZO. And when it comes to health care institutions, then you need to know there's a contract between HZZO and every health institution, regardless of whether they're state hospitals or they're county hospitals. Under the contract, all institutions received 100% HZZO and achieved losses. No State Account
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88853	Thank you. A colleague of Dragutin Lesar will reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88854	My colleague Linić, the functioning of the health system, is very well known to me, especially the negotiation. But what you obviously don't know then I'll tell you how the HZZO deal goes with institutions. First of all, HZZO set the limit by an occipital method in principle according to the departments that the health care institution had and it had to cover itself with that limit. And then the Ministry of Health made a contract, a collective contract, and when you converted it into a mass of 89% of that hospital limit that she got by contract, it went to employee expenses. That's true. So the amount of resources and the method of determining a particular health institution was limited by the fact that HZZO did not regularly receive all the funds because then tell me why the majors had stopped delivering drugs twice in 5 years? Why is the health pay deadline above 160 days? Why is the problem even these days when wholesalers again warn that somewhere around 600 million kunas there are still unpaid bills? But in one right, a 5% contribution was introduced for the unemployed, the state could decide to be smaller or bigger than that. I was just saying that the Parliament has passed such laws, and the Ministry of Finance and other bodies of state authorities have to respect them for nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88855	Thank you. And the last replica of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88856	Dear colleague Lesar, the topic of the agenda is very serious. Your debate is rather provocative to miss a replica. I will remind you that sometime in 2007 when you also supported a conclusion by the Croatian Pensions Party that the Croatian Health Insurance Office is isolated from the state treasury, the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament. After that, two or three times it was entered in the Health Insurance Act and each time it was prolonged. And we thought, even then, today, that in this system that is significantly different from the pension insurance system, something can be saved, as far as we don't know, we can't, there should be very good projections to see what can be saved in that system. What I noticed in your debate that you generalized and that you said taxpayers are paying a health contribution, is if you specify that the legal persons are bonds of payment of contributions, because the health care contribution is paid on salary, so the bonds are employers, of course and craftsmen, and those who are in self-employment and the only categories you mentioned, the only ones whose 70 million kuna has been suspended are pensioners who receive pensions of more than 5400 kuna, and all other categories have not been suspended, nor are it known to have been paid into the state budget. So I'm just asking you to be very specific. The same principle can also be used for the pension system but these are not the same systems since they are current transfers of live work towards past work. And as for the entry of pension funds into monetization it is impossible to do it directly, it is impossible directly respecting the laws to make pension funds enter the highway monetization.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88857	My colleague Lesar, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88858	I was talking about taxpayers, you weren't in the gym the whole time, so you didn't hear. Yes, the taxpayer is a taxpayer, whether a citizen, whether a businessman, a company, anyone else probably doesn't need that. I remember 2007 and the debate about it, but I remind you that you are still part of the ruling coalition today, so you have more power to decide. I'd be happy to fight for the realization of conclusions. As for monetization and pension funds. You say it's impossible, I'd say it's possible but I see it about like this. Somewhere around 40 and something billion kuna is the second pillar, all insurance companies in the second pillar of pension insurance invested in government bonds, about 40 billion. Now the pension insurance company with suitcases will bring the state bonds of the Republic of Croatia with some foreign partner and say here is my share in monetizing Croatian highways. This is about what Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic has been stressing very strongly in recent days. So we asked why these bonds, i.e. why HAC and the Zagreb-Rijek highway, do not issue bonds instead, so pension funds would buy bonds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88859	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party club, Liberal Democrats Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88860	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Deputy and Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So, on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, they can clearly determine what it has been said, independently of which these are facts, that this is a reality and that the debate can be said on behalf of the club that has been led so far, more professional and well-intentioned, but critical in that classical opposition sense when it is said nothing is right, you do nothing, we have heard it well. But there were also a lot of well-intentioned suggestions, which is extremely important, which points to the basic thing and parliamentary representatives wanting the well-being and progress of this country. It is quite clear, not only from the figures that we are still in crisis, it is clear that part of the reforms that have been implemented and part of the reforms that are under way that should be accelerated in order for these structural reforms to clearly and firmly reflect the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia, and then on the budget of the Republic of Croatia. Because the facts we're reading from this report on the reduction of material expenditure, the expenditure on employees, so it's absolutely impossible to say that this government is not trying, but it's trying to rationalise costs, to make public administration where it acts directly more efficiently and more organised. This restructuring and within certain administrations is precisely in this sense to make it more quality and efficient for citizens and especially for entrepreneurs. However, it is clear that, in addition to structural reforms that need to be accelerated, the key to exiting the crisis and recovery despite extremely high liquidity in the financial sector is economic recovery. These indications we have in 2014 with growth in industrial production, export growth suggests that we are on a good path, but not fast enough and that it is not enough with these measures that we have so far had to make it much better and much better. When we discuss deficits and public debt, it is certain that Croatian citizens are also considering a gross product that is still in a negative, i.e. in stagnation, that Croatian citizens feel that it is not going in the direction in which we all expect, in which the government is working to make the most of it. Likewise, when the public listens and sees in criticism that we have failed to get out of the crisis, it is clear that we are not, not the worst in the EU, but that we are in that segment of countries that are harder to get out of the crisis. We can explain this through various influences, which are former authorities, which are responsible, which are problems with the health and pension system, which with the interest that we have to pay, but also big problems in the EU have other countries, that the EU is only, can be said, on average below 3% of the deficit in 2013, which is... the agreement, that public debt is above the EU average, 89%, and that by... it should not exceed 60, that the EU's 2010 average was 6.1 in the Eurozone, 6.4 in non-eurozone countries and that the EU is quite clear, it is much easier to get out of the crisis, and we who entered the EU last year, with all the adjustments needed, not only by law, legislative framework, but what is crucial to the economy are under way, to get out of... in a certain way, the new rules of play in the EU, in a single recession which is not simply possible through the night. Of course, this report on the six-month budget as a report on last year's budget implementation, too, suggests that this government is on the right track, only slowly. Those tools we have, measures, we don't use fast enough to run that segment of economy that we can influence. Among other things, I will mention a public private partnership which is part of the EU that does not enter through, we have discussed a lot of ESA methodologies and 95 and 2010, does not enter into public debt, and it opens up a space for the launch of that sector that is particularly in crisis at the moment, which is the building, which is why, because of the low state of the building is a gross product, essentially at this point in the minus. Public private partnership is a segment where at this point we have 650 million in investment tenders, some 6 billion kunas that are being processed to be realized tomorrow. And if we speed up certain processes, we will also help the construction sector, and then these reports that we get about the state of the budget will clearly have much more positive. Much today has been debated primarily about the health system and it is equally necessary and clear that leaving the treasury, but also within the framework of the CNB and the possibility of using today, tomorrow these funds as if they were in the treasury, we need to have that zero point where it starts. So this is unequivocally and definitely all of this means that in the report on the six-month budget and what we will have in the rebalancing of the announced, must be the means that will have its name and last name, i.e. efficiency, because it is basically the key that all these reports that we will continue to receive can be fully processed and realised, and that is that the work of the Government, the work of the ministries, the spending of the funds, I will say and the investment of the funds because every cost is not, the cost is not cost, it is also a certain investment, that it has its name and name. So on behalf of the HNS Club on this point, and I make it clear to the Deputy Minister that every cost that we have and in the rebalancing sector, it must be a clear justification for efficiency, and then, these structural reforms that are under way, and then the opening of space to the economy and the economic recovery will be much clearer and much more high-quality. Of course, in this report and when we talk about European aid, or European funds, it is clear that when we talk about 2014. – 2020 and the resources we have at our disposal are something that is currently being prepared for projects and it is quite clear that it is '15, '16. and '17. the key in which the revenue based on projects and the withdrawal of funds from the Structural Cohesion Funds will be the largest because it is as logical as when the house is built, first they go based and then the upgrade goes, and then the upgrade of course brings the largest and incomes, amounting to, or withdrawing from, European funds. Finally, on behalf of the HNS Club. We are not naturally satisfied that this budget report for six months did not show those revenues and per VAT, which means that consumption has fallen, we are not satisfied that GDP growth is not at the level we expected, at the level at which it is being worked, but I also clearly expect that this is the final year of recession because all the measures that have been made so far, measures that we need to further speed up and step up, we ask that it be as urgent as possible and that in 2015 we have a clear exit from the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88861	Thank you, too. We'll stop working now. I'm setting a break by 3:00, and after we break, we'll have a replica. Party at 13.27 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88862	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] We'll hear the replica of Krešimir Bubal at Mr Gjurkovic's exposure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88863	Thank you very much. While you were talking about this topic, you mentioned that liquidity is large in the financial sector and that this is a sign that we are on a good path out of the crisis. Well, I'd say that's exactly one sign of exhaustion and economy and population, but also that banks no longer have anyone to lend credit to, so there's one missing policy right there. I'm also going to replicate to you the public private partnership that you've praised and said that, here's some kind of rescue. So I'm just going to ask you if you've ever tried the Public Private Partnership Act to carry out a project? I have tried more, but I haven't been able to bring any to the end, and I can't quite say that I haven't realized the projects in the past 10, 12 years. Therefore, we either need to change the law on public private partnership or look for new models. Therefore, there is no clear exit from the crisis in 2015, however, it can be seen that all macroeconomic indicators are poor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88864	Replication response, esteemed Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88865	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, so I said that financial stability is one of the good preconditions, but that financial stability did not lead to economic recovery. Financial stability is neither of this nor last year, financial stability was when the whole world had a crisis since 2008. Croatia had a stable banking system independent of the government that was in the Republic of Croatia, which is otherwise one of the preconditions for having stability in the state and investment, I will not say budget, but primarily as regards investment is stability in the financial system. Exhaustment and decline of the population are not related to the financial system and liquidity, they are related to economic inactivity, unemployment problems, indifference problems within the economy, and then part of measures by the Government or the Government that failed to start economic recovery. As regards the public private partnership Just for a little while, it's very successful, but you should know how to run it. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] You probably didn't know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88866	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club, the esteemed Drazen Djurovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88867	... Mr. Deputy Minister, MPs and MPs, I will try not to repeat myself, what the predecessors have already said, but just from these reports that have been delivered, different, to extract some of the elements that actually seemed interesting to me because more or less of the general positions in which the Croatian economy is located, we all know, we only interpret them in a way that one glass for one finger is still full, and others that for almost one finger is completely empty. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] The report on the financing account was a plan for 2014 on total debt of €35 billion 600 million, and we are doing great. The execution for the first six months is 30 billion and 200 million kuna. So we've done an absolutely excellent borrowing plan here and we've breached the plan. When it comes to debt, we record debt growth from 95.5 to 201 billion. So for 5.9 billion for the period, it means 36.2013, 36. 2014 It is also interesting this report on budget supplies, especially interesting this part regarding the Ministry of Economy which has obviously entered into very active cooperation with... LPP, some law firm and legal counselling, which in one, two, three times with 600 thousand kuna, 2 million kuna and 2 million kuna paid those services to that company, so from the budget stock the Ministry of Economy paid 4.65 million kuna to the law firm... LPP for here undefined, but probably necessary legal services to the Ministry of Economy. How well-organised and functional public enterprises are, it shows that Croatian highways must continue to be in constant debt with state guarantees from Croatian banks, so we also have a loan here for current financing, financing of HAC's current operations, with HPP of 120m euros. The macroeconomic movements are more or less well known, the recession continues, GDP rises, real production declines, exports record some minimal shifts. What's worrying is, of course, that loans are growing to the state and, in fact, the state is actually maintaining a relatively high level of interest rates with its permanent borrowings on the domestic market. Because citizens and citizens are slowly deleveraging in moderation and at some minimum pace, however, it is precisely the state that, through its ever-increasing borrowing on the domestic market is actually still very high, in fact, interest rates so that loans to the central state have increased by 3.8% in the first 6 months of this current year. What is important is also mentioned, and what has not been mentioned, that is the structure of the general budget deficit where it is evident that neither extra budget users nor local self-government units participate in the general budget deficit structure, but that the generator of the budget deficit is the central state, while extra-accounters in plus 0.1% of GDP or local self-government units are 0.3%, and then those minus 2.4 central states are at minus 2%. It is interesting that given how much we are talking about ineffectiveness and infunctionality of local units, it would be expected that they participate in generating this deficit but obviously do not participate but participate only in the central state. They even reduce it in some minimum proportions. It is also worrying about the decline in GDP in the first 6 months that by 6.8% GDP income, which is around 2 billion kuna from the plan that was for this six-month period, so that instead of 21 billion kuna, we have achieved around 19 billion GDP revenues in the first 6 months. Unfortunately, this report, which is called a justification for income and income, did not have the slightest ambition to try to analyze why these trends occur or to give any answer. I'd call this an explanation already so statistically speaking, there's no explanation. It would be good if, when the legislator is at least for those values that give rise to an explanation or tried to explain why this is happening, or possibly possibly, and which measure is intended to be taken during the pre-fashion period of economic or economic policy. But that ambition, of course, was lagging behind. Something that I have already, on several occasions in previous half-year reports and budgets, observed and amounted, and I have to present this on this occasion when it comes to the implementation of the budget, for example for the MUP, the MUP at the position of 3-2-3-9 other services records 98 million kuna. No state ministry is even close to recording that item with such expenditure. On many occasions I have tried to find out what structure is, all other ministries are moving there from several hundred to several million kunas, only the MUP records 98 million kunas spent in the first six months of this year. I think it would be fair for the Croatian Parliament and the accounting users to get more accurate structure and consumption and what is actually contained in the 100 million kuna. And if these 100 million kunas for other MUP services weren't little, I'll tell you that over the first 6 months, the MIP spent 42 million kuna on police equipment, for the national road safety programme 18.5 million kuna, for the 15 million kuna communications equipment and for the information and police and the Ministry of 23 million kuna, means a total of around 98 million kuna for these capital things, and here somewhere some number has been from 98 million kunas of something else. I think it's a non-transparent display of the consumption of MUP. Is it impossible that all the ministries that have the budget of these dimensions show 2 million kunas or 5 million kuna, and here stands 98 million kuna. And so I'd like to invite you, too, to assume that as someone planning a state budget, you're interested in what that 98 million kuna means in the first six months alone, and maybe there's room for savings so that next year it's 5 million kuna. Also when it comes to the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts. For the first 6 months of this year, the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts has foreseen 219 million kunas for the first 6 months of this year, for subsidies, current aid, fees, current donations, capital aid, credit and financial institutions, companies, craftsmen and farmers, the ministry has made or spent 19 million kunas. How much is 19 million kuna of 219 you yourself estimate. As for the material expenditures and expenditures for the employees there is the ministry at some of the usual 40, 45, 50%, but when it comes to this, it's a few percent of the realisation. Of what? So exactly what the Ministry of Entrepreneurship, crafts, and there is, is that through different programmes it places funds towards companies, businesses, agriculture, craftsmen and so on, it does not do its part. If that ministry exists because of those twenty million kunas then let them transfer to HAMAG... close the state ministry and we have one ministry less and so we have too many. Otherwise, I have to admit that the execution of other ministries and state agencies was enough within the framework and that's good for the budget. As far as I see more or less pay breakthroughs, the material costs are reduced, extra budget users are also mostly within the frameworks. However, what is actually in my opinion the problem is that, what is all this more or less reduced to the content account, at the expense of work. Therefore, it did not fall particularly on employees or on material costs, but fell on various programmes that the ministries should actually implement. Croatian waters are also an extra budget user who was very diligent and did not spend much, of the plan only 33%, meaning 2.8 billion 950 million kuna, the index is 33.6. Croatian waters spent 219 thousand kuna for the first 6 months for the team and spent 26 thousand kuna on emergency interventions in the water economy in Croatia from what they had in the budget of 2 million kuna. It seems that there were no floods in Croatia or any major disasters, so Croatia's water did not have much where to spend emergency intervention funds in the water economy. Otherwise, like all other out-of- budget users and Croatian water, they were quite well actually holding on to planned budgets. And what to say for the end, the discussions of the predecessors mentioned different systems and the problem of the pension system, the problem of the health system, the problem of the way in which we can hold the Croatian budget at all and should not be too smart, so we can determine that the only answer that Croatia can actually have is GDP growth and under two actually the growth of the number of employees, so employment growth. The number of employees will be, its growth will be the only credible criterion and an indication of whether Croatian society is really coming out of recession or not. We've also heard some stories that aren't actually correct about how the number of unemployed decreases. Yes, the number of unemployed decreases by several tens of thousands and the number of employees does not increase. Why? Because the number of unemployed who are reducing is a new Croatian emigration that goes beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia and is looking for a job in Germany, Austria, Denmark and the overseas countries. It's these 40,000 unemployed who are less on record today than we're recording employee growth. There's a lot more of them than this number. We're the only ones who don't cover them at all. We in Slavonia have practically an exodus of young people who are already on buses every weekend going to Germany, Austria from primary school to doctorate, all possible categories, all structures of people, jobs are gone, there is no opportunity and these people have nothing else to do, they simply buy a one-way ticket to Germany to Munich, Frankfurt, Graz, Vienna, going after Croatia's entry into the European Union and yet they are much better able to find a job and we create them. And if this continues for the next two years, we'll have a new wave of emigration that we haven't had since the '70s. In contrast to the 1970s, today we are a society that is old and we will no longer be able to compensate for these democratic losses that we have relatively easily compensated in the 1970s. Therefore, our responsibility is on us and on those who will lead the Republic of Croatia in the coming years to try really excessively to give answers to this economic depression and to get out of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88868	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First came the esteemed Kresimir Bubalo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88869	Thank you very much. Comrade Djurovic, you had to notice that the value added tax last year was in the first 6 months 20 billion and 201 million, this year 18 billion and 826 million or 6.8% less charge in the first 6 months. It's a sign that people are exhausted, it's a sign that consumption of both physical and legal persons falls. But the main feature of the execution of the first six months is the growth of debt and deficit, which is the main feature. And when you look at this feature, which is exactly the borrowing but not for Slavonia and Baranja then we can only say on behalf of the HDSSB club that what the prime minister said may have dried my hand but also now a little higher if Croatia is in charge of Slavonia and Baranja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88870	Answer Drazen Djurovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88871	Well, I think we all see that this social and economic substrate of the Republic of Croatia has become so active that nothing can come of it anymore, it's just a question of whether we are sufficiently aware that we are willing to face it and ask for answers to change it. Those answers can't be the cosmetic nature they've been in so far in the budget, so we're going to play a little bit of luck, and we're going to have a little tobacco, so we're going to have a little excise on gasoline, so these are exhausted models. And the second model, really structural incurring into the budget or trying to encourage the Croatian economy, we didn't even have one. So in these three years, so now I'm talking about the government's mandate because they're the ones who are still creating the next budget really trying to change structurally something in the Croatian budget. And when it comes to regions or regional policy, I think we can all agree that regional policies are even gone because the state is completely centralised and that VAT you mention is a total state income from which units of local and regional self-government have absolutely no income.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88872	The second line is Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88873	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Djurovic, you spoke about the implementation of the budget for, as they like to say here the first two quarters of this year, is now the mid-term at once, but well. Namely, when we talk about the execution, so we are talking about a single syntagma, you can say freely in view of these figures that you have stated that this is about the failure of execution or the achievement of non-implement, however you wish, I can take both of them. When you talked about all these figures that you mentioned, about the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts that spent only 19 million kunas from the prescribed 219 to help craftsmen, farmers, small entrepreneurs, etc., when you spoke about the expenditures of the police, the MUP, of 98 million kuna, but without any explanation of where these expenditures went besides all those other items, then I must tell you here that I found that the Ministry of Economy paid legal services to 4 million and 650 thousand kuna, legal services, while at the same time the Croatian State for subsistence fees and costs according to court rulings must be allocated, according to the budget says, 149 million kuna. And then when we talk about our young people going to other countries looking for jobs, so people of a fertile age can quote a statement from one or one government minister, so what does it matter, some other people from some other countries in Croatia will come and work. It seems such a policy is being conducted to change both the demographic and the national structure of Croatia in the future. Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88874	Time. The replica matches Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88875	Well, I don't know what kind of politics is being run, or I'm not a fan of conspiracy theory, even though I like to read and inform every theory. But as a Croatian society, I repeat this repeatedly, we need to be aware of the weight of the problems we are in, and that is why it is good for us and for us as representatives and for others who have a chance to get out of the borders of the Republic of Croatia, to look at other societies because sometimes we have a fake picture of ourselves. We're not so much, we have a lot of good sides and good qualities, but at the moment we're in today we have a problem of becoming uncompetitive. This government I have the impression in these three years has not thought about it at all. Today, three years after the start of this government's mandate, it's harder to become an entrepreneur than three years ago, and that's not good. Today it's harder to be a craftsman than three years ago, today it's harder to start some activity than it was three years ago. Well, it's bad when that HAMAG Invest rejects half of the proposals for excellent programs that were received in competitions last year because someone made an administrative mistake in patterns. So they refused half the proposals of all the programs that came to them, first of all for administrative reasons, they didn't even look at them, and those who took them, where all the dice were fulfilled, they went to check whether these programs were worth it, and that doesn't make sense. We can't function that way anymore. Our state agencies can't function that way. What I'm telling you right now, I've been told by entrepreneurs, and confirmed by the director of the agency that they did.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88876	The word is now being reported by Deputy Minister, Honored Igor Radinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88877	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a few words. It was the last club, but also because of a few facts, they were made publicly, so I try to answer them, in fact, to answer some questions that they don't stay in the air, and they're said quite dramatically. So I'm actually going to go in line, maybe it's not important, but in order to speak to a respected colleague, Đurovic outside the HDSSB club, and his colleagues just had replicas, so I have a similar remark as in the morning, but I won't repeat it. As regards the Ministry of Economy and Current Stocks, it is the proposal for an economy on the government's decision to take legal counselling services from an American... law firm for the purposes of INA and MOL, and therefore it is a concesive monthly payment on the basis of the contract. That's what the government has made its decision on. I don't know now, really, the exact number of monthly, 600 and some thousand kunas, depends probably on the rate of dollars, but I'm saying legal counselling services for the needs of arbitration in the case of INA-MOL. As far as the deficit structure is concerned, you talked about it, and you were surprised how local self-government, out-of- budget users aren't at the moment. They're helping the surplus, and they're not deficiting. Yeah, it's passing time for six months. Out-of- budget users are in plus and Croatian water due to the dynamics of their investments they are obviously late, i.e. They don't realize it in the first six months, you said it well. The plan for this year is still a valid plan for extra budget users to be in the deficit of billions and 435 million kuna precisely because of these investments. In the first six months, it didn't happen, so that's the way it is. As far as local self-government units are concerned, it's also about dynamics. I believe you know that units of local self-government cannot comply with our regulations to be in the deficit. It must be covered immediately in the coming years and there are very many restrictions on duties, etc., not to be longer. Therefore, this is really about passing time and drawing the conclusion that the state is wasteful, and that the units of local self-government are not, unfortunately, not so. I think that I can testify to that, too, but I wouldn't owe it any longer. What else is there? You said VAT revenues, you confused a few times the final name of GDP, VAT are the same dynamically for the first six months. Obviously there were some returns, there was also the effect of entering Europe, but here's my latest data from October 17th if I'm not mistaken, VAT is on the realization of 101.67 compared to the previous year. At October 17th there were 30 billion and 831, with October 17th this year 31 billion 345, so some half a billion kunas more than VAT. So that dynamic isn't how my colleague Bubalo said it was all dead, it wasn't dead. Thank God it was a good tourist season and on that side VAT is better than the previous year, weaker than the plan, but that's where we go back to that first point and probably my colleague Linic and I won't fully agree. Yet, this projection was probably something stronger than it could have been in that hour. As for the other services of the MUP, I really can't say at this time, it's an item. Here I believe they were in the M.O. and they were listening and they're gonna get a report from this. If not, here I promise you we'll list those items. I'm sure there's some rational explanation for 3239 at the MUP. And as far as entrepreneurship is concerned, I also say, I really don't know all the numbers. But I'm convinced it's the same about dynamics and that it's a competition for one of the sequences, for some of their projects and which are not... 13.6. does not mean that until today they are not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I'm saying, if you need us to ask them, we can either send them to you or contact you directly or they'll do it themselves... to tell you what I think would be the best solution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But in any case, I'd be happy for you to get that information. Here's what would have been around, were the answers. I don't know if I missed anything else. Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88878	We have two reported replicas. First esteemed Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88879	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, very short. It's not good to respond to something that isn't documented. Therefore, local self-government is exclusively in place because of the city of Zagreb, because of that court dispute with the state and the funds they received from the state. Why am I saying that? Because in the end of the year, when it is done collectively at the end of the year, local self-government will also participate in one part of the government budget deficit and because of the actual consolidated balance sheet and therefore it will be minus. And that's why it's not good to say that local self-government is in plus because they haven't done any work. The only reason local self-government is in surplus, and the country in the deficit is to resolve that court dispute with the city of Zagreb, which is about those decentralised funds that the city of Zagreb has received. He recorded them as such in revenue and therefore the basis of their balance sheet seems different than it would seem, and I don't know how the state would book it on itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88880	The replica corresponds to the respected Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88881	Well, I can't say you're wrong, but it's not entirely true. So you said the only reason for this excess local self-government. I'm not, I don't think I'm invited to dynamics, although probably when it comes to local self-government, even though there's probably that, and you know that the regulations are usually such that the budgets of the unit of local self-government are balanced if they are something symbolic, they balance next year. The plan for this year consolidated from all five and a few hundred units of local self-government consolidated to 105 million kuna minus and it is unfortunately symbolic or fortunate to these figures. The truth is, for the first six months, it's a billion and 8 million plus, and this extraordinary event that you say is exclusive is 355 million if I'm not mistaken, and I know it's around here somewhere. Therefore, it is not exclusively certain. There's another 600, 700 million plus for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88882	Second replica, respected Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88883	Well, here's Mr. Deputy Minister, why I'm these two things. I thank you for your answer. This position of the MUP with these 100 million kunas, which in the last budget was 200 million kuna, really bounced. And when the last budget was, I tried to get answers. I didn't get any answer as to what's in the structure of those other costs and it really bounces significantly from that position of all the other ministries, and there's no answer to what's in it now and why it is. Maybe someone in the M.P. learned how to write all kinds of items so they can be cleaned up, I don't know. And second that I actually did you when it comes to the Ministry of Trade and Entrepreneurship, and in the budget of the last year, they've actually very little placed in the programmes, and then, in the rebalancing these funds have been downloaded, reduced to this level, and from this level, the realisation is again low. So these two things have been repeated in the 2013 budget and are now being transferred in the first six months 2014. And it is quite interesting that this is actually why this is happening to this ministry at all because it fails to do these programmes at all or Croatian entrepreneurs have no interest in the programmes at all, so it remains that way. But I don't think that's the case, but the state ministry actually has some structural problems in operation, and I'm saying that's especially what I'm saying when I heard from people that in these competitions there's mass waste, but they've invested money for programs. The people who made these programs, and because of the unfulfilled forms, they were returned to them those programs that were never even considered because of so-called. administrative errors regardless, and only after that went into analysis, I mean the content of the program which is actually almost so amazing in a country that wants programs, wants investments, wants new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88884	The replica corresponds to the respected Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88885	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's the other one. I don't know, look if it was, I don't know what those administrative reasons were for refusing even though it makes sense. If you're competing for something, so if you don't skip the flyer at the start, whether they were symbolic nature or if people didn't attach some necessary documents that were there. We should really see that, and that's a question for a colleague of Maras and his associates. I don't see how otherwise it would work if you always had some necessary documents, papers to sign up for something, so if you don't join them, those who have attached them could,... etc. At least that's how the public procurement system was supposed to be here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The question is whether it's a serious offense or not. I hope so, and I believe he didn't and that he asked for some paperwork. But I'm saying, as a member of the government, I'd like you to get answers to your questions, and here I'm telling you, there's an institute and an attorney's question written and oral, that in any case your colleagues will answer you. And you've intrigued me really with this MUP, you know I'm relatively new there, I don't have the numbers yet. If the number is reduced from 200 to 100 million for other services, that's a good way to go. I'm sure there's... Yeah, it's six months, so it's going to be 200. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm sure there's some logical explanation, but here's a personal effort to get me information, and I'll give it to you to see the structure of this at level 5 that will certainly be visible. Well, by the end of the week, I'll be sure to give you that information, and I'll get it from the MUP. And if we can do something different in the future, we can see on the 3-2-3, that's a very shallow calculation plan. There's probably some logical explanation, but I'll share it with you as soon as I get it by the end of the week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88886	Thank you. We are now continuing with an individual debate of 10 minutes. The first registered representative, Josip Boric, is here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88887	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. I'll start my argument with an old saying that says, "Better to be slapped by the truth than to be kissed by a lie." Why do I quote it at the beginning of my debate? Because I'm concerned as a citizen of this country, because it feels at a time when we live that between this truth and the truth there's almost no difference at all. We are given information daily that has nothing to do with the truth. Serious people, serious politicians I think must have responsibility for what is written, for what is said and done. And I think today's success can be measured, and it's exactly the state budget that needs to be measured best. I expected today that the Deputy Minister would come here with the truth and say in six months we'll record a failure in relation to what we promised you by making a budget. We're not doing well, we have a problem of deficits we don't know how to solve, we even have a problem projecting GDP. It became like some kind of bookie that starts at the beginning of the year when the budget is brought i.e. at the end of each year when the budget for the next very optimistic. We're starting with two, now we're gonna end up at the end at minus one. We've got all the wrong ideas about the possibilities of the state we're running. So the leaders of this government have to tell the truth, not here with a loose index on export growth, and you explain to us how better times await us in 2015. And the execution of the budget says something else entirely. He's even dreaming of some kind of remnant in power because everyone else is telling the truth, and the budget is saying different. Smart and capable people don't look back on the path they've been through. I think it should be clear to everyone. Because the road is something that's ahead of us. You can't go that way anymore. I guess we should go where the future is, 2015, 2016. For three years, we have been serving our backs, seeking the cause of our own failures. And we heard about it today on the left. It's all because of 2007, 2009, 2011, and I don't know which other one. So why did you convince the people that you knew better when the results were quite different? I remember when the budget was made at the 11th month last year, the prime minister sat here and laughed. To my warning that with such a budget we are going to the excessive deficit procedure, that there are no reforms with which we can at least try to avoid it, that we cannot talk for three years in a row to save and that our costs of the state are growing. It was inconceivable to me that every ministry in the 2014 budget received more funding than in 2013 and 2012, and we are saving. We save in a way that we spend more. Great! The only one who tried something in his work, a former minister who had been removed, was trying at least to reach some levels that were spoken of. I don't think it's a funny situation at the time or today that we're in and we're in trouble looking for activity. Instead of waiting for an empty election, what this looks like to me today, reforms are required. However, we are offered stories that only PR can work until the election. People are wanted who won't think where I'm going to end tomorrow than to do their job for which they've been paid, and they're paid to make what they promised, which is that we'll live better and better in this country. Unfortunately, it's not like that. And what do we have today? The deputy minister comes in in 10 minutes, throws out some numbers, please, gentlemen, in the House, and now you're eating at those numbers. And what awaits us with such achievement by the end of the year? We don't know, I guess we'll find out in the rebalancing. What's going on in 2015? We don't know that either. Again, some false optimism, we're on our way to make a move next year. So where's the seriousness? So we're always serving in 2020 how great we're going to live in 2025, and we're waiting for 2015. That's what we're interested in. We're interested in each other every day. What did the government write down? We discussed this document when the government was established in 2011-2015. The government's work plan, the first objective, by the end of the term of office, is to gradually increase the growth rate in the economy and move at 5% by 2015. Are you listening to me well, 5%? Fiscal consolidation, reduction of the country's deficit to less than 3% of GDP and the primary deficit to zero. The reduction in the share of budget expenditure in GDP by about 4.5 percentage points by the end of the term of office. Stopping growth and turning the public debt share trend increased for state guarantees in GDP at levels less than 60%. These are the quantifiable goals you set for yourself as Government in 2011, when you came to power at the end of the year. I'm going to set two more targets for regional development because I'm mostly talking about it in this House when it comes to the budget. The government's regional policy will be aimed at reducing the huge regional development gaps in Croatia while implementing the decentralisation process. The government will pay particular attention to resolving remaining refugee issues such as the continuation of the reconstruction programme in the war-torn family homes and housing programmes. So how do these goals come true? Not that we don't have economic growth, but 12 quarters in a row. So everything you wrote on the first page is not worth it. The deficit level instead of less than 3% will end up at 5.6% at the end of 2014. The level of public debt at levels below 60% will be achieved in 2014 at 82%. That's measurable. For me, regional development is important, and we will reduce regional differences in development. What are we talking about? The other night I watch television, so people don't have electricity in their home in some parts of the Republic of Croatia in the 21st century, they have a refrigerator they can't fit anywhere, they can't have light in that refrigerator, I can't say anything else in that refrigerator. So aren't we really as capable as a state of two hundredths or three hundred families to solve power supply, and we're talking about equal development of all areas. So let's look at the division of the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds, 744 million kuna for the whole year, the achievement in 6 months, 153 million, 20%. One ministry that should be the generator, the driver of the very part and the even development of the Republic of Croatia. 20% in six months. When you warn the ruling, do not create a new office that should address the issue of reconstruction and housing, they say it will be great, it will work better than now. Look at the achievement of 326 million kuna, which is more than some ministry accomplishing 59 million kuna, or 18%. So these people who have had a problem since the first year of your term have the same problem, and in the third year, they will have in the fourth year of your term, we haven't solved anything. Every serious minister realizes that at this rate, you can take 200 million in that office. That's what happened on the rebalancing last year. So people offer you the possibility but the inability of people to solve it, leave the money not spent, the problem not solved and the country's ability to redistribute to other positions. When we warn here that there's one pay missing at the Ministry of Science and Education, then they tell us that it's not, then people remember at 11 months that it's still missing, so let's find it somewhere in the rebalancing area and make it worth it. When we see this budget of yours in which many activities don't even have any performance in six months, no shift, the kuna has not been spent and there are hundreds of them just take a good look at the program section. We're wondering what these ministers are doing in these ministries, so how can you have a planned activity that doesn't happen in six months? And what happens to us is that we spend more and more every year, that this four years we're going to spend more than 500 billion kuna all together from the state budget, and that we're going to conclude that we've pushed the mandate to the end, we're going to be in charge of the new 85 billion with extra budget users and over 90, so when we turn that into expectations of revenue by monetization, then we're going to conclude that we've spent 25 monetizations of highways and that we're in charge of four more values of monetization. That'll be the result. And what we've solved, we've solved shipbuilding and stop, and we're done. That's what we can say. So I'm saying, in the end, I'm going to end up with a saying again that says, "Who wants to do something, that kind of way, finds it. Whoever does nothing finds justification." And that's exactly what your six months have looked like to me. You found an excuse why something isn't the way you projected it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88888	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First respected Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88889	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When you're done saying it then there's one that says, "Who's stagnating that back there."because it's not progressing, of course. But I've been drawn to some of your settings. Namely, the other day here was the Minister of Economy and the First Vice-President, or I don't know which Vice-President of the Government who has explained the industrial strategy since 2014-2020 for a full five minutes. Today, this half budget for 2014 has had an exhibition on the non-implementation of the 2014 budget, so I can freely call it budget failure, explains ten minutes. But most of all, I'm touched by that finding of yours about reducing the difference between regions, so in the program, it's twenty or I don't know how many. And when we look at it, a few days ago it appeared in a daily list that is prone to ruling, I will not speak on purpose the name of that list, so the ranking of the development of Croatian counties came out, so by the degree of development. Among the last six in this series of twenty Croatian counties by degree of development is five Slavonian, the last one is Virovitica-Posaviska, then Brod-Posaviska, and then before that is Vukovar-Srijemska and somewhere in the fourteenth place seems Osijek-Baranja, Požeko-Slavonian is also below Osijek-Baranja County. And what to say after three years of ruling these ruling ones on how the level of development of Croatian counties, i.e. the region, will be equated. Nothing, just... I think it's best that they leave as soon as possible and that finally all this negative flow maybe in one departure, and the arrival of some new ones, maybe we can revive both the spirit and the economy and everything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88890	Thank you. The line corresponds to the esteemed Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88891	Thank you very much. Well, I've tried to speak out of my heart because I live with people and watch what happens, and it's unimaginable the way regional development policy is considered. You said the saying, "Who is stagnating is not progressing.". We hear the Greek minister, who says recently with all the optimism in it that we are ruling to dive less and less, so we're sinking less and we're talking about recovery all the time. So we're still in the part where we dive, but now it's less. So should we be comforted by that? When you see the results in six months, what should a normal man say? There's a chief, no funds, no help. Some activities, capital aid to local self-government are not touched, current aids are not touched, zero, nothing is missing. Says the former finance minister, we're going to cancel some loans because we have funds. I see that this... still lives. It means he has, he hasn't broken up. Someone might be thinking differently right now. Whoever's looking for any help for any infrastructure investment can't get it from that ministry. Because what happens? Through the funds the city of Osijek will arrange to build a drain system, spend 40 million euros or as much as it is worth, and will be said, in Slavonia we placed 300 million kunas in 2014, and this will be achieved for the next few years and will be shared by the head of the population and... the counties to which you have achieved the most. In fact, nothing's going to change. Small environments, not that they don't have a chance for the kuna, but no one experiences them at all, and then we're surprised what's happening to us. Says the minister, we'll cut where? On subsidies and investment because there's only room here because there's nothing to do. Now we're going to have a report on pre-accession funds, and you're going to see the optimism that comes from this report. You'll see, and no one can see the kuna, and the building records a great fall.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88892	A new replica, Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88893	Thank you very much, Vice President. Col. Boric, you said that you expected the deputy minister to actually come out here with the truth and tell what kind of economic and financial situation we are in, and in fact the truth is that some economic analysts say that this government in the last 60 years in the EU, but also beyond, has actually recorded the longest decline in the economy and believe it or not, it is still in power. It is also true that negative movements throughout the government's current mandate will, in all likelihood, continue until the end of this year and are in fact all trends are negative. And why are these trends negative? These are, in fact, because of the constant changes in the rules, especially tax, and the arbitration in the application of the law, by inspection services, the unpredictability of the procedures of the state authorities, inefficient public administration, etc. That's why there's no income left. What's missing income for? Because people have less and less people spend. That's what lower incomes are for. You end up with one saying, I'll tell you the same thing that can help us all, and that's... Abraham Lincoln says you can cheat on people for a while, you can cheat on people all the time, but you can't cheat on people all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88894	The answer is Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88895	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Babic, I agree, and that saying paints perhaps the current situation. Why did I start saying that at this time, you can't really tell who's telling the truth here and what's the truth. But when the numbers come, I guess they're exact and they show who he is who doesn't say what he's announcing, who he's the one who promised, and he hasn't realized because it's measurable. That's measurable. The fact that we're talking about budgeting in six months at 11 months almost, another ten days is a disaster. What's it worth to us at the 11th month? Now the rebalancing, maybe next week, maybe that week behind it, so it's exactly the same budget for next year. They show us that someone wants to run from the truth, and I said because of that, if only the export growth index is what should make us optimistic with those figures that can be reduced to a statistical error, then we haven't realized what the government has promised us. And I read what she promised us. Well, the government's work plan can't be one document that's only being discussed to discuss, so we'll do everything else just not what it says. Those who have tried to work, you have been replaced, and those who will not work for what they have written will work in all chapters, there are 62 pages, read all the goals, so you will understand what has happened and we will eventually come to the point that nothing has even been promised, that it was all figurative, that we have, and I believe that the seriousness of the government must not be figurative, it must be real and serious if it seeks the trust of any voter or citizen of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88896	And the last replica, Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88897	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You were talking about some of the government's objectives, among other things, regional development, economic growth. Let us not forget that it was one of the goals of the government to reduce waiting lists in the first 6 months by 50%, consolidation of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance and the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance from the State Treasury which I support. But when we talk about debt in the health system today, it's going up somewhere on the vertigo of more than 10 billion kunas, and when we talk about budgeting, by law enforcement, I'm going to say it, in the health budget of the first six months from the general taxes, it was going to be 2 billion and 620 million kunas. We do not see anywhere in the implementation of the budget whether it is from the general taxes allocated to health care, at the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and then, in some way, I will defend the former minister, the former minister is incapacitated because the former minister of finance has not given the Croatian health system all the funds that the law must give and the question is whether the budget respects the law and whether someone is responsible for it. The former minister of the HDZ government, Schucker, respected all the legal provisions and all the funds intended for healthcare went from the state treasury to HZZO. And we said we'd consolidate HZO, bring the balance to zero and then separate it from the treasure. Today along with those goals of waiting over 600 thousand people are on the waiting list, each day that waiting list increases by 4 to 5 thousand and today never worse in the health system given the long waiting lists, a debt like I said over 10 billion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88898	Thank you. Josip Boric responds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88899	Thank you very much. Well, a respected colleague says a saying and a healthy man gets sick without money, and we really had a chance to talk about health care, and every one of your warnings and everything that you suggested over that went lightly and it was thought that it was important to be a minister who came here with a certain attitude, something says, make some kind of program, I think he was on a few pages of what we discussed, and our health care is going in a better direction. And then it happens that waiting lists become lists of expectations, that those poor people who need instead of the moon are waiting for three, instead of five months waiting for a year and a half. That a simple thing to make a simple dental machine impossible or inaccessible to any child who has a problem, five years we've been waiting, excellent. These are the possibilities of the state, and billions and billions are spent. I really don't know what's going to happen, you say you're up for HZO to come out. What will the department of health look like when HZZO comes out? ...to be? What are we going to do in health care anyway? So do we just need the minister? Maybe that's the question. I don't know about that segment. I'm not in charge. But experience has it that what we said was right and that everything they promised to solve has not been solved, and now it all comes down to one minister against another minister, opening up some stories, and that because of the struggle in the court, the health system is further collapsing without any movement, and that's why Croatian citizens don't deserve to be replaced by this government, all together.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88900	We're continuing an individual debate. It's time for the esteemed Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88901	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I've volunteered for an individual debate for a few reasons, for the simple reason that I think some things should be pointed out, and I'm also going to ask you and myself a few questions, and then somehow we can answer ourselves where we are and what we are. So all the time it's been said that fiscal discipline has been introduced in Croatia. If this report is the fiscal discipline that was before? I ask those who understand public finances to talk about it. It's also about transparency. Sometimes in non-transparent times, MPs got a booklet with a very simple explanation of what the budget funds were spent on, and also the media had a briefing on the budgeting for the previous month by the 3rd month, these were those non-transparent times. And today in transparent times, I, as a parliamentary representative, cannot get information about what a budget charge with some time is like. But that's the case, but obviously it's not a general political issue and there's no interest in it. And what actually offered me was to report for this debate, which is whether we Parliamentarians are passing laws because they apply and that we control whether they apply or only so much to do our job. Because when you look at this report on the implementation of the budget, you're asking one elemental question, are the laws that we've passed here? So in order to make one budget, first of all, the fiscal policy measures are determined by the Ministry of Finance to determine some level of budget and tax to fill it with, therefore, tax policy, and politics is making a decision on what kind of expenditure party will be and what a deficit it will be, that is a key story. He doesn't bring either the finance minister or anyone. In spite of the opposition of many Ministry of Finance, this policy would be forced to... to push through the Fiscal Responsibility Act with one basic objective of taking this policy as a right more than once and not critically determining the height and level of expenditure, it has the responsibility to spend what this House has approved. The high home is the one that gives the final word on the budget. Have you noticed that someone mentioned the fiscal liability law today besides me? No one. In this implementation of the budget, it is definitely that some budgetary users will exceed the positions, according to the Fiscal Responsibility Act, it is clearly defined what is happening. I mentioned the so-called so-called in the debate on behalf of the club today. a delay in payment, unfortunately, no matter how much someone might not like it, but it exists. Many budget users are working at this point on expenditures that have no intention of paying this year but will push through next year and that is a fact. And if we don't clear that up, then the question is, why are we making the budget? There used to be a terrible cry for redistribution of funds but at least they had redistributed and documented in the Croatian Parliament from which position... that was transferred. You knew it, you could see it. But now we don't know how much of last year's unpaid is left and paid in this year. He doesn't even know the Minister of Finance because he doesn't get that paper. That paper's somewhere in the budget user's office because if it was brought into the treasury, then the finance minister would have it. So he's talking about how now he's going to publish how much anyone works with the state is funny stuff. The moment the treasure was established, it was clear. Also, it is a famous story that the single wage calculation has finally shown some of the additions to education, etc., so this information has been in place in the Ministry of Education since 2008 only there was no political power to eliminate it. Among other things, it was an amendment to the Labour Act to change collective agreements. But what is the problem with this budget implementation? The spending party simply tells us that structural reforms have not been implemented and that no quality expenditure party can be made, cannot be reduced, cannot be kept in control and it automatically leads us to far greater problems in 2015. That's the key. We can argue here whether structural reform is this or that. It's not. It's structural reform if you reform the system that it works and it provides a service and you say it will cost so much and so much but then it's known that it is. But if every year he tells you to give me that much money, I still lack that much money, but it's not structural reform. The restructuring of public enterprises. In addition to human love, it is the only restructuring of public enterprises that we have seen in recent years. This restructuring of public companies would lead to knowledge that public enterprises should be privatised and perhaps because of their own interest, etc. They need to stay in the state. Infrastructure. Well you definitely can't talk about economic development in certain areas, you can't talk about increasing the employment of the economy if you don't prepare the infrastructure. I don't have enough time to talk about highways but I keep saying do you think we'd have such a tourist season if we didn't have highways? So no one was building highways to finance themselves but the only part and the Croatian economy. And that's the infrastructure that opens up certain areas for economic construction. Here I fully agree with counterpart Linic that there are certain strategic, infrastructure and energy projects that are being dragged from the government to the government but no one is able to make them. The question is, can we go ahead without these projects? EU funds. My colleagues and colleagues of the EU funds are exclusively to say that they are not exclusive but we need to serve to reduce the cost of both the budget and the budget of the units of local self-government. We were the only ones who expected someone to give us the money. There's no giving of money. You have to have a project, you have to have it financed, and then someone gives you that money back. Unfortunately, this year we won't withdraw much, however, the biggest problem is that we haven't done certain things administratively, projects, which we didn't agree on in human capacity, we of those assets that we can get in 2016 won't be able to withdraw 600 million. 600 million. At this point, you already know that. And she can say whatever anyone wants, it's a fact because the government hasn't done certain jobs. 600m euros, which is € 4.5 billion, and if certain expenditures were financed, these expenditures should not be in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia and the deficit problem would be lower. Income tax, very interesting regardless of what the budget is for the first 6 months, however, it is also evident by this execution for the first 6 months and by the budget rebalancing which we will receive in 10, 15 or 20 days on benches that there is no room from which 2.5 billion changes in income tax will be taken to local self-government units. They're gone. And it's no problem that someone talks like this, someone gets 100 or 200 kuna more, yeah, they might get 100 or 200 kuna more but they'll pay for more expensive kindergartens, they'll pay for more expensive water and pay for more expensive things, so it'll be far more expensive for them. You won't hear a word about it. So if you look at the implementation of this budget from this segment and you add legal certainty to it then you'll be clear. In a country where payment deadlines are respected if it is 30 days, then the story of whether VAT will be paid by charge or not is a side story. Because if you charge something within 30 days then the logical thing is that you in that tax cycle are going to spin the money pretax and... I'll take care of it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But if someone doesn't pay you for a year and you can't sue because your slowness lasts five, six years, then you're in a lot of trouble. But there's a problem that the state is funding its own inefficientness and that's what can't happen. It's these structural reforms. The State must not finance its own inefficientness. The state with its own efficiency reduces many of its own expenditures. And are we aware of whether we are politically prepared to plant a hump under such reforms is the question. Both colleagues and colleagues, so if we add all of this together and put it together, then you can see why Croatia is in a 19 billion deficit and why Croatia will be in the 21st or 22 billion deficit next year why this government unfortunately made the biggest public debt in the mandate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88902	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First respected Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88903	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Shuker, you were talking about, first of all, the spending side and eventually the spending side downsizing, so as far as I can tell from this budget, even though I'm not an expert on these things, there were some irrational, therefore, reductions. Here is a colleague, Djurovic, quoted the Ministry of Small Enterprise, crafts etc., where only 19 million kunas were invested out of 250 planned million. The education ministry tried to show a year as if it were 11 months old, so 12 months were questionable, for two years it was a questionable payout for a full 12, as if the year was 11 months. But what I find in this calculation in 6 months is concrete, here is the Croatian road, for example. here, so we're looking at the items where it says investment in the state road by the programs. An estimated million and a half kuna, a billion and a half kuna, a half-year achievement of only 400 or 27% The reconstruction of fast roads envisioned 670 million kunas, a half-year achievement of 181 etc. And even the one to say the unfortunate underpass in Slavonski Brod in the position of k2008 where construction and estimated 38 million kuna will be started this year and only a million and 500 thousand spent. So neither was the amendment rejected by me as why the amendment when here's the government is going to build that underpass. And that's gone wrong and there's not a single building house, there's no shovel or hack buried in connection with the construction of that underpass. Just look at all the items of the Croatian Roads and you will see how far the achievement is in half a year that none of them reached even 30% of the item foreseen for the whole year, and here is the end of the 10th month, the end of October, the beginning of November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88904	Thank you. The replica matches the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88905	Thank you very much. Comrade Grubisic, if you look at the budget, then you will see that many items are repeated year after year. They're the same everywhere, then they're redistributing and going into something else. However, the key problem is that when you go to a kind of linear budget cutting at 12, 11 months when you have practically already spent 90% of the budget you can't reduce anything there, then you show some position you didn't pay, you reduce it, you cut it, and basically the bill will come to you next year. That's the key problem, that's what's so-called. a delay in payment, which has reached a level of 3 billion kuna for some economic analysts in Croatia. And then there's the question of what to make a budget for, because if you have to pay the salaries that are with health care 30 billion, if you have to pay the pensions that are slightly less than 37 billion kuna, if you have a child's allowance, maternity benefits and what has to be paid, subsidies and interest, then in principle you have a very small amount that you can or can't influence. But I repeat, this implementation of the budget is far from what it should be and it is seen and I repeat, it is a policy of responsibility. Politics dictates how much the spending side will be, and it's policy that tells someone you have so much, awareness goes into frames, and if you can't suggest what you should do and how much it costs. Unfortunately, however, this did not happen in Croatia and the question is when will happen. Until it begins thinking in such a way, the budget will become a subject which unfortunately became irrelevant in the Croatian Parliament. Look at the number of us. So we all like to comment on some general things, and about a crown document that tells us whether we'll be better or worse tomorrow, in which direction we're going, unfortunately that went to the side, and even that story that in the first six months of finance saved us 3 billion from the second pillar of retirement.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88906	Next replica, Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88907	Thank you very much. Mr. Shuker, you said the government didn't focus on structural reforms of public and state administration and restructuring of public companies. The truth is, the government dealt most with taxes and reckless measures. Why reckless measures? Because they made their decisions at the expense of citizens without valid analysis, without testing, calculation, possible obstacles. I know it's very difficult to make such decisions, but if they had such valid analyses, surely today's budget situation would be different. But that's why they've been doing a lot of experiments, radical cleaning of administrative structures, hiring on the criteria of purely political similarity, which actually led to absurdities today. And what you said about fiscal responsibility, true. According to its rules, the fiscal liability law limits state spending, and should strengthen responsibility for one legal, purposeful and meaningful use of actually budgetary resources. As far as I know, the fiscal rule for 2013 is not satisfied, it is not satisfied now, and I believe it will neither be satisfied for 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88908	The replica matches Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88909	Thank you very much. My colleague Babic, so when the law on the implementation of the state budget was passed, we warned that the share of the public debt would be well above 60%. Politics was then supposed to have courage and admit what was going to happen because nothing was by accident, it is clear exactly what our obligations to the European Union are, what methodology is being used, therefore it is no science. After all, even during the debate on the state budget, we also told the execution last year that the share of public debt would exceed 78% in 2014, given the methodology. However, as regards structural reforms, see in Croatia there were paid classes until 2000. In Croatia, a depoliticized, professionalized administration has been elected, because we removed the ministerial assistants, put the directors, selected them in a competition aimed at working in the state administration by people who are professionals, who are not burdened with politics and who will be experts. However, all of this has been removed and all of this has been eliminated, the coefficients of times have been returned to the base and then that hill of additions to collective contracts, in some times when the state budget story was different. And today we have the situation we have. It's not just structural reform to change that we're going to make payments in one way or another, but it's also especially not solving the expenditure side of the state budget, linearly... Five or ten percent. It's the worst thing that can happen, but we're where we are. But we all forgot about that famous clean start. Paid, made, unused, thrown 20 million kunas, comatose and why ask the dear God.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88910	A new replica of the esteemed Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88911	A fellow Shuker, one of the major problems of economic stability that needs to be affected by economic growth, is the security of payment, liquidity, security of supply, the functioning of the judiciary. And that's what when we look at the legal solution, we have the Financial Business Act. But unfortunately, after three years of the coalition government, we didn't raise the security of charges. It's still a huge charge problem. This is very, very important for the food production sector for the simple reason that they are facing trade chains in Croatia and we do not essentially provide them with a quality charge. It doesn't work, it doesn't work, it doesn't work, it doesn't work, it doesn't work, it doesn't work, it doesn't work, it doesn't work, it doesn't work, it doesn't work, it doesn't It's something the government has to resolve, because without it there's no accumulation, there's no investment and there's no battle to export, and basically we can export food. For me personally, the biggest tragedy is that state firms don't pay, and we do. Enough to mention HZ Cargo and some other state-owned companies. But what's even worse is payouts. Is it possible that in the shipbuilding industry where the owner is does not have regular payments, that for a year there is no solution to the Immunological, no pay is provided. Therefore, this is what is negative and what cannot be accepted. And I agree with you in the Convergence Plan that we have given the European Union, we have not even mentioned a change in income taxation policy or the separation from the HZZO Treasury. Therefore, these are not reform procedures.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88912	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88913	Those who have not negotiated with the international financial institution do not realize that there are two types. One is where something is promised on paper, but there's nothing committed. And the others are the ones who, if you make a promise on paper, you have to do it because someone has to give something for it. However, the problem of paying and not paying in the Republic of Croatia is a long-winded tape. But the key thing is that the state in its companies has to have deadlines and have to stick to them. And I remember that at one meeting in 2010, then most of the public companies were brought to pay within 60 days. The directors are told, if someone orders you to do something, and you don't have the means to secure it, don't do it. Because that indifference chain is just getting started on it. That's why I keep saying that this expenditure side of things encourages and pushes politics. Politics pushes to do something, and then we'll do it easily later. However, HZ is the best example and the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance that health care means when we are unable to draw the line and say so and so much at this time, we are ready to be in debt. Let's get this over with, but that's not the way we're gonna do it anymore. However, when someone tells you we'll separate from the Treasury, we'll have a bank account and that'll solve all the problems that are stories for small children. Because those who have generated losses in previous years will generate them in the future because they have not solved the problem of whether the HZO is in the Treasury or not in the Treasury or there is here or there is no account, but the problem is solved that someone is acting responsibly. Because if it works irresponsiblely, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter what his path is. But unfortunately, the restructuring of public enterprises was just the patching and pushing of hundreds of political personnel to get caught.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88914	Thank you. Darko Milinovic's last line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88915	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Shuker, you mentioned fiscal responsibility. She makes it very clear that a minister who has ten things can spend that much. If he spends more than 10 that he is subject to the law to resign, offer a resignation to the prime minister and explain why he spends more than he objectively has in the budget. For this reason, because of this irresponsibility today, we can talk about a deficit in the state budget of more than 20 billion kuna. Now, why didn't that happen? So the Solomon solution of the first among the incompetents of Zoran Milanovic is to take shifts in me, I was also speaking when Mr Linic was in the SDP that I thought the only minister who was trying to do something and I supported some of his moves, Minister Linic replaced all others in such a way as to declare them capable. So now I'm asking about why the fiscal responsibility law is not respected, or let's go with the name and last name. So, the lightbulb of hatred and impatience in the Republic of Croatia is famous for it, Zeljko Jovanovic, who looks at miracles, we did not know it until a new minister of education arrived who had not secured the salaries of employees in his portfolio, i.e. in education in general. And now the question arises in addition to this political responsibility that should be borne by whether the basis of the Fiscal Responsibility Act will bear some other responsibility, criminal responsibility because it is the first light of hatred and intolerance both towards the academic community and towards political rivals and teachers, according to academics, according to everyone in the Republic of Croatia. So I'm asking the public question is whether he's going to be here just because he's probably just running out, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he didn't secure his salary. And it was legally required. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88916	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88917	Thank you very much. Comrade Milinovic, there's something you didn't say exactly, which is that he didn't know. He was warned when the budget was passed and when, if you remember at 12 months last year, it was said there was no money for transportation. So when it was said in the first month that it would be paid in the 1st month, then we on this side of the assembly warned him that if he paid that he would miss it by the 12th month of the current year. So he knew that. However, if the finance minister had had the opportunity at the time, and I got pretty much by the nose because of that provision I put into the law, to apply that rule of the Fiscal Responsibility Act, then it would have been known by the second month that the minister in question had done what he must not do. And it's the Prime Minister who makes the final decision, not the finance minister. If the finance minister indicates that someone has exceeded a certain position, then he offers his resignation under the law and the Prime Minister makes a decision, or in the rebalancing, provides him with additional funds or tells him to wait a little while, so you said you could implement the programme for that money. Or what's the biggest tragedy if we've raised our hands in this High House, the ones who've raised them, and we've been against it, for a budget where with a fig in your pocket, one budget is offered, expecting to receive additional funds in the 11th or 12th month. But it's important that there was $5 million for that institution that opened the job contest.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88918	We're continuing an individual debate. It's time for Nadica Jelash to be respected. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88919	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed Deputy Minister, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. So, doing the budget as well as the budget itself is a really broad topic and this can be talked about in very different ways and a series of such discussions we have listened to today. And in my debate, I will limit myself to only one segment of budget implementation, which is a budget deficit or budget deficit because I think it is extremely important, if not the most important topic in the implementation of the budget. So, after a half-year account of the 2014 budget, the budget deficit is 8 billion kuna. By the end of the year, it could break the level of 4.6% of the domestic gross product as agreed with the European Commission when Croatia enters the excessive deficit procedure, and then it is clear in itself that it will not be possible to honour a reduction of 3.5% for 2015 and also not that reduction to 2.7% as projected or agreed with the European Commission for 2016. It must not be any consolation to us that so far as 26 EU countries or in the excessive deficit procedure, or still is, we know that Sweden and Estonia alone have not been in this procedure, nor have the European Commission in a number of cases, in a number of quite concrete cases extended the initial agreed deadlines of adjustment because the members simply failed to meet the agreed objectives, so we could use that fact. Nor can we be comforted by the fact that the European Commission has not applied penalties until now for non-compliance with the agreed, and we know that penalties can be double. So for euro area members, this is a monetary penalty of 0.2% of GDP and for non-euro area non-members, it is freezing funding from the cohesion fund. Last year's example was supposed to be sanctioned by Hungary for the first time in a way that denied it 500m euros from the cohesion fund, but subsequently the sanctioning decision was withdrawn because Hungary has proved that it has actually reduced the budget deficit. However, what must make us become aware of our situation is our huge public debt. So a series of participants in today's debate mentioned this huge Croatian public debt. It is one of the largest of the countries we can compare with, and it is the result of all budget deficits achieved in a number of past years. According to the new EUROSTAT methodology with which we had to comply, which includes the debts of Croatian highways and highways Rijeka-Zagreb, at the end of 2013, the public debt of the Republic of Croatia was 250 and not 220, as originally shown by billions of kuna and over 75% of the domestic gross product. At the end of 2014, public debt will be further increased by exactly the amount achieved by the 2014 budget deficit and as far as public debt is concerned, it could exceed 80% of the domestic gross product. And what I really want to stress specifically in this debate is the fact that this huge public debt has its price, has its huge price. In fact, every year in the budget is the increasing cost of financing this debt, so here at the 1st semester this year, the cost of interest increased by 9% compared to the same period last year. We practically need to allocate a billion kunas each month to pay or settle interest. And these interest rates, of course, generate a growing deficit, and the deficit generates a growing public debt. And that vicious circle has to be cut once. So, we must respect the European Commission's demands in the excessive deficit process, we must consolidate public finances and reduce public debt, not for the sake of the Commission, but for ourselves, because this public debt is actually the most powerful destabiliser of state finances. In other words, the responsible management of the state budget is actually responsible for managing public debt. How did other countries work in this regard, how did they act? So transition countries like us have mostly worked in a way that has increased budget revenues. The most common VAT. Of course we did, but we can no longer increase VAT because we have a second highest rate in the EU behind Hungary. In addition, the government said it would no longer increase the burdens on the economy or the citizens. Part of the countries applied by the European Commission in such a way as to cut the expenditure side, so budget expenditure, primarily for subsidies, and social contributions, with largely not touching pensions, except in some cases no more indexation was done, public sector wages were reduced, investments were reduced, agencies were abolished. It is obvious, therefore, that there is no single recipe, but resolving the deficit should indeed be a matter of national consensus, a matter of connecting, and not another division of Croatian citizens, or another referendum. What I'm really saying is, I'm afraid that Croatia actually has no choice, the only way to reduce the cost of service of this huge public debt and thus reduce the budget deficit is capitalisation of assets. And that's why this government decided to go to the highway monetization. I wonder how different it really is, do we keep in debt, how much longer we can be in debt? At present, we are dealing with historically low interest rates, which is what several MPs have been talking about today, so the world market interest rates are really low because central banks are literally pumping money to save economic growth, but even as soon as the world's leading recovery economies are growing again. It's simply a law of supply and demand. When the possibility of borrowing is exhausted and the European Commission threatens us with sanctions for not solving the excessive deficit, we will again be in a position to sell this family silver, but the question is whether we will succeed then, so under this enormous pressure to achieve the kind of price we could achieve today. I'm better off just then that family silver will be worth less. Of course, the alternative to borrowing is economic growth we all know and that would be absolutely the best solution, but when that growth is gone, and unfortunately we see that it is not then the solution can also be the privatisation of state property. Especially in a situation where the state has a value of 60% of gross domestic product and collects from it less than 15 contributions per year, as is the case in Croatia. The debt of Croatian highways and highway Rijeka-Zagreb is 4.3 billion euros and the real question is how many of these highways are ours if we owe them 4.3 billion euros, are they even ours? So we need thirty billion fresh money right now to reduce the principal of the loan, or in order to at least partially deprive ourselves, otherwise I have to say it literally chokes, the budget deficit will increase further, and that means closing the flow of European money because we simply won't be able to comply with the criteria given to us by the European Commission. In this regard, such a scenario and responsibilities for such a scenario which is very likely must also be taken into account by the organisers of a referendum on the justification for the monetisation of highways. If they did have to be able to offer an adequate alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88920	Thank you. We've got two lines reported. First esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88921	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Jelash, it's every man's right to think that certain things should be. Do you really think that at this point the Croatian public has enough information to bring with certainty what you were saying. So the Croatian highways were not built at the time they were built, it was known that the toll would not be able to be financed. And in times when there wasn't a crisis like this, but I keep saying what kind of tourist season would be for us and what would the Dalmatian Zagora look like, the character and even Zagorje if those highways hadn't been made? They are a key and infrastructure project for Croatia's economic development. And it's not good to say there's only one solution. The European Commission will not stop and attack Croatia over Croatian highways. Croatia lost tools to negotiate an excessive deficit at the time the deficit in 2013 was 18 billion and at the time of the 19 or 20 billion deficit in 2014. Then Croatia lost any argument and any power to negotiate. It's a matter of political decision whether someone is going to propose this or that, so that's what I've been saying all day, politics is making decisions, but politics needs to be held accountable. Because no one should be resented if someone has a different attitude or opinion. So if we in HDZ think that the highway problem can be solved differently, then look, we took 40 lipes on highways this year, but we're far from monetizing. Well, we practically took 900 million from them this year, 900 million from them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88922	Time. You must report for the replica, for the reply to the replica, I'm sorry. Second replica Mladen Marelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88923	My colleague, my dear colleague, you spoke about the highway. Yeah, but did we count the tunnel paints here, did we count the construction of overpasses that are nowhere to be found, did we count getting out of highways that don't lead anywhere, did we count archeological excavations, did we count the Ploče resort there? And that's all that's so increased the cost of building the highway that we really need to get our heads hurt and that a lot of them need to be caught by the head because it's all legacy, inheritance and we still have to solve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88924	Please don't throw away your colleague Shucker. Branka Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88925	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So almost every one of us in particular who have an obligation to lie and propose a budget, and then we know how difficult it is to explain each of these items. In fact, when it comes to a half-yearly report, then a good plan should be implemented in the first six months at 50% level as quickly as possible and almost impossible. I'm sure when it comes to some kind of punishment, damage or investment. However, when it comes to expenditure on personal income and wages, then if that amount is at 65 or 70%, then the situation is alarming and we can certainly ask ourselves what will happen by the end of the year, whether there will be cancellations, reduction of personal income or something third, and the observation that budget rebalance should have long been on these benches. However, the item that is particularly eye-stitching and is almost in all agencies and almost, almost in all ministries, has exceeded the planned amount by an interesting name of the cost of persons outside of working relationships. That must be particularly interesting for those 302 thousand unemployed, and that would include all those who work on the so-called. They are employed by an active employment policy and currently there are over 46,000 and there are as many as 93% of those who are on the so-called ". professional training or our youngsters who work with high professional equipment for the entire 1600 kuna. They will certainly be interested in the fact that, for example, the Agency for Payments in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development has spent as much as five times as spent over the first six months as planned throughout the year. Then in the Croatian academic research network CARNet more than 7 times more, at the Business Innovation Agency almost 7 times more at the Regional Development Agency nearly 10 times more, the Ministry of Construction planned on the item of modest 10 thousand kuna and spent 157 thousand kuna. Furthermore, the 20 thousand-planned MUP for 12 months has spent 421 thousand in 6 months, the State Geodetic Administration planned 10 thousand, spent in 6 months 317 thousand kuna, the Croatian Employment Service planned 7 thousand kuna, spent in 6 months and 161 thousand. Then I wonder why the budget plan, why the Budget Act when exactly the state agencies, the ministries, the government, and then I would say this Parliament because, of course, most of them will accept this report against all of this adopted and prescribed? How can it be approved for some purpose of seven thousand kuna for a whole year, and then spent more than a million and 600 thousand? There are other interesting items, for example. The Ministry of Foreign and European Transport for road transport plans for 12 months to spend 300 thousand kuna, and we have spent more than a million kunas in the first 6 months. Are you going to tolerate these excesses both to cities and municipalities, and will we be able to, as the leaders of the local self-government unit, behave like this? And I would warn and appeal and remind you of Article 27. The budget law where the Ministry of Finance draws up budget instructions and provides them with units of local and regional (regional) self-government by the end of June of the current year. The law finely provides that the Administrative Financial Authority shall then draw up instructions and deliver to its budgetary and extra-financial users. According to this, the same means kindergartens, libraries and the like draw up the draft plan and deliver up to the 15th of September to the local self-government leaders in order to refer the leaders to the city council by the 15th of November as well as the Government to this Parliament. How are we in October means that here you are at 4 months late, does this mean that both mayors and mayors will be able to submit budgets to their city councils or municipal councils by mid-March? What kind of system collapse would that be? I know you're laughing safe and we find it very funny when you announce new amendments to the Income Tax Act where even 2.5 billion kunas will be less in urban and municipal budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88926	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I thank the Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88927	Proposal for a half-year report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2014 and a proposal for a half-yearly report on the application of fiscal rules for the first half of 2014. The debate is closed. Before the vote, the esteemed counsel Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88928	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament during the debate on the implementation of the state budget on behalf of the club, I announced the conclusion and explained this conclusion in the debate. We reached the conclusion, today I learned that the conclusion has no reason and that it will not be voted on. The government probably made a decision about the depth analysis, but I think Mr. President because of what is happening in Croatia and what is the situation in the Republic of Croatia that every MP in this House and every citizen should know what is the real minus in Croatian health at the moment, so before any changes are announced. That was the reason, and I explained it in the debate, why we're going to make that conclusion. Today I learned that the conclusion was not made in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that we did not intend to submit it, that we did not mean it seriously, I would not explain it on behalf of the club, and therefore, given the importance of the conclusion and since it is reasoned in the debate on behalf of the club, I think that the Croatian Parliament should be made clear on this conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88929	Thank you very much. I allowed the intervention, though I had to say that the conclusion had come, but the conclusion was not prepared in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. He was returned to a respected representative to supplement him in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It has not been updated in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and has not been included in the vote. That's the whole truth. You've confirmed that yourself now. We won't discuss it. You can submit to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system that I have denied you the possibility of the conclusion coming to the vote, so I ask you to do so. Thank you very much. Please vote on the report. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 82 votes in favour, 4 abstentions, 15 against the adoption of a semi-annual report on the implementation of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2014. In accordance with the provisions of Article 11. I am giving the budget law to vote on the decision to give consent to a half-yearly report on the implementation of the Croatian Waters financial plan for the first half of 2014. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the decision was made by most votes, 81 votes for, 3 abstentions and 16 against. I am voting on the decision to give consent to a half-yearly report on the implementation of the Croatian Roads financial plan for the first half of 2014. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed decision was taken by majority of votes, 82 votes to, 3 abstentions and 16 against. I am voting on the decision to give consent to a half-yearly report on the implementation of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund's financial plan for the first half of 2014. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the decision was proposed by most votes, 79 for, 3 abstentions and 15 against. I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to a half-yearly report on the implementation of the State Agency's financial plan to secure savings deposits and resuscitation of banks for the first half of 2014. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 83 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and 15 against decisions made in the text as proposed. We are going to, I am voting on the decision to agree on a half-yearly report on the implementation of the financial plan of the Centre for Restructuring and Sales for the first half of 2014. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the decision was made by majority votes, 81 votes for, 4 abstentions and 15 against. I am voting on the half-yearly report on the application of fiscal rules. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 80 votes in favour, 4 abstentions, 16 against a half-yearly report on the application of fiscal rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88930	We move to the next item of the agenda, that is: - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax and property tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 711. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Finance Minister respected Igor Radinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88931	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So the shortest, therefore, contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax and property tax was signed on 20 June this year by our Minister of Finance Mr. Lalovac and Mr. Pierre Gramegn, Minister of Finance Luxemburg. After two rounds of negotiations held once in Zagreb, one in Luxembourg and the agreed text of the contract has made a number of reliefs in taxing income and income... the Contracting State and the opportunities to increase the mutual exchange of goods and services and to increase the degree of overall economic activity of both countries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we believe, I expected it wouldn't be... The debate, but here's a fellow Shucker, and we'd be happy to listen to the HDZ Club's position, please. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88932	Thank you. Do the rapporteur want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the esteemed Ivan Schuker will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88933	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, with all that you've said, I've only reported for one reason, since we've been discussing budget implementation today and since it's often been said that paying dividend taxes, this is a typical contract that basically tells who pays the tax. The dividend tax is paid exclusively by entrepreneurs working in the Republic of Croatia. All entrepreneurs from this financial perhaps one of the strongest centres without counting London City will not pay dividend tax because it is thus defined by the Law on Avoiding Double Taxation. And that's just saying that maybe some measure that fiscally isn't so important we've led to it that maybe it's a brake for certain foreign investors. Because many Croatian entrepreneurs unfortunately have maintained their liquidity in recent years in a way that has not paid dividends. At the time when the law was passed and when it was said that it would be retroactively applied, many raised loans, paid dividends, and then again did a loan to their own company because without these funds, practically the company had no crafts. So my intention on behalf of the HDZ Club was to just say it. And it's just one decision that may seem good sometimes, but when you look at its ultimate fiscal effect, it's nothing but perceptual and how others look at us is causing great damage. And it's on the trail of this whole thing together that maybe all the laws, especially like this in this High House, need to be discussed twice. Because maybe when a man proposes the law seems to him to be the best thing, but in the debates somehow he sees some arguments that maybe he's wrong and then he does it. Because unfortunately this is just one of those laws that was passed during the SDP, so when HDZ came, it was abolished, so the SDP came back to power. So when HDZ comes back to power tomorrow, it will be abolished for one single reason why it applies primarily to Croatian entrepreneurs because I repeat by such an act that Croatia I think has signed, there is still one or two member states of the European Union with which it is not signed to regulate how entrepreneurs who have companies in Croatia and when they want to export profits outside pay or do not pay taxes. Thank you very much. But we will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88934	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I thank the Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88935	We are going to the Final Proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of income tax avoidance and on property, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 711. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find the proposed law passed unanimously with 99 votes in favour. P.Z. number. 711 for the record.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88936	We move to the next item of the agenda, which is: - Annual report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2013; The State Commission for the Control of the Public Procurement Procedure submitted a report on the basis of Article 18 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Law on the State Commission to control public procurement procedures. You've received the motion for an act. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. He represents the Vice-President of the State Commission, the Honored Angelko Rujlj. Here's to the pay phone. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Goran Matesic is the president. I'm sorry. I was miswritten by professional services. Tomorrow we'll ask them why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88937	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. In front of you is the Report of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2013. The State Commission is an independent, independent, regulatory body, an appeal body, a secondary central body which decides in public procurement and concession procedures and public private partnerships. The amount of data that the State Commission submits to the Croatian Parliament is established by law. We have been free and exceeded that amount and all in order for this young legal branch and, on the one hand, the economic branch that means controlling the spending of public finances, on the other hand should be an incentive to develop competition and entrepreneurship in this way we want to contribute. Something I'd like to draw attention to is the appeal procedure. The state commission is operating within the limits of the complaint. So something similar to a litigation court, somewhat limited by official duty by defining essential injuries. The decisions of the State Commission shall be published on the website, hence the delivery of decisions shall be made by publication on the website which reduces the cost on the one hand, shall contribute to the development and availability of legal practice and thus the predictability of the State Commission's behaviour. As you have seen the register for a long time, the register of the case has been on, publicly published on the website and thus allows the participants of the appeal procedure to know without delay when the appeal procedure is initiated and its fate. The State Commission's business and work has been shown here. Perhaps it should be said that the State Commission does not raise funds from the fee for the initiation of the appeal procedure, however, they are considerable in the amount of 13 million and 900, nearly 14 million and they significantly exceed the State Commission's own labour costs. What happened in '13. The year on the number of complaints is actually the largest increase in the number of appeals cases ever recorded because already in '14. We have a certain reduction in the year. Compared to the previous year, there was an increase of 23%, so in that year, the State Commission had a total of 2298 of which should reject the transferred, pending cases that could not be resolved for a period of time because they were approximately submitted at the end of the previous year. They're 197. What I would like to point out is that there is significant information on the number of public procurements controlled through the appeal procedure before the State Commission. It's 11%. It is not a large number, but it is the number that private bidders have been dissatisfied with and made it possible to actually monitor and control public spending through the appeal procedure. I know that every year, even this statistical indicator of the number of orderers and the number of complaints and complaints that have been received will give rise to considerable media attention. This is one way to point to a potential quality in public procurement and legal protection procedures. The state statistics commission adopts its internal statistics 28.54, so almost 29%. It is significant that it rejects therefore from various procedural disadvantages 34%. This points to the lack of education of the complainants, which is not a very good indicator. The average length of the appeal procedure, as you see here to a certain extent, has been significantly reduced, where there is one legal person who can state indifference, determines the obligation to act in order to make a decision and publish the State Commission within 30 days of the date of the regulation of the complaint. The regulation of the appeal is one phase far from, in most cases, far from the appeal that is ready to decide. So the appeal itself as an act can be neat, but if it is not accompanied by documentation based on what the control procedure can be done then the State Commission cannot decide on it. The most frequent irregularities are highlighted in terms of education and guidance to the legislator in the direction of amending the rules. Administrative judicial protection, therefore against decisions by the State Commission, can be requested administrative judicial protection only 5.62% of the total cases resolved later go into administrative dispute and very few actually end up by adopting a decision. In principle, 94% of the decisions made by the State Commission have become legally in this form, which speaks of the impact of the State Commission on the formation of legal practice. Here they would be, so in this text there is also an assessment of the situation in legal protection where some cross-section was given and some suggestions were given in terms that could be used in the adoption of a new regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88938	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. The first one came forward by Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88939	Thank you very much. I just wanted to say a few words right now at the President's fair, we didn't understand now, the public procurement. You said he was a deputy. Intruder Nenad Stazic: President./... [[Intruder Nenad Stazić: Here you are, reporting for the replica not to me, but to Mr Matešić. But I'm explaining, I haven't heard from you who's vice president or vice president. ...]] That's what I'm asking you. So, Mr. President, it is your public procurement exposure that the problems of entrepreneurs and all of us together here and the promoter who proposed the Public Procurement Act have proved that here I don't know how many times we've made changes and supplements, and that even today this public procurement doesn't work the way it's supposed to work. In fact, all these complaints that go on the basis of public competitions are really too slow and take too long. For over 80 days, we have cases in Požega-Slavon County where you simply don't get any answers. We come in a position to say winter service, maintenance by the county road administrations comes into question because simply this competition system, and especially when it is finished on appeal, is simply too long and is very long waiting and leading us to one uncertainty. As we have a case right now, which is that by today we have no solution to the subject of the complainant, since the winter service is coming and it is a matter of maintaining exactly the county roads in the Požega-Slavon County, I ask you how and how we will resolve it if we are so slow to make decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88940	Thank you. Your time is up. The replica corresponds to the respected Goran Matesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88941	On your replica, you should say that the appeal procedure takes as long as it takes after the client delivers the documentation based on what can be decided, so I don't know, you said quite abstractly. Statistically, it is known that the procurement process takes 6 months for the contracting authorities, and that the procedure, the appeal procedure was granted, you heard how long it was before the State Commission. In this case, it is necessary, in particular, to take into account when and how the contracting authority has acted in the appeal procedure, whether it has supplied the documentation neatly or should have been invited to do so. As for the maintenance of roads or some emergency procedures, it is clear to the contracting authority that such a procedure should be initiated in time, not by disabling the procurement process as well as the legal protection procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88942	Thank you. I'm also asking you to get up next time you respond to the replica, just as MPs do when they're replicating you. Second replica, the esteemed Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88943	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Matesic. I've been looking at this data a little bit, and it's a good thing you cut in 2013 from those 59 days to 39 days. But you boasted that 6 million kunas were paid to the state budget more than the cost of the State Commission itself. So now I ask the question, is it the purpose of the State Commission to fill the state budget or is it the meaning of the State Commission to solve the appeal cases as quickly as possible so that the projects can take place, so that the economy can breathe. So I think this time of 39 days on average, although there are a lot of these situations that my colleague Franjo just said had to last for two or three months. Therefore, it is obvious that the work of the State Commission should be strengthened whether I am counting personnel or something else. It doesn't mean that that's why you need to hire new people, but to move them there. And this cost, i.e. the functionality and efficiency of the Commission, to be displayed in the case resolution in about 7 to 10 days. Then it would be one real report, and apparently it can handle it financially.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88944	And Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88945	Your Honor, here's the percentage of complaints being dropped. I thought you said 34%. It's a 30-day deadline that you and I have experienced in the field that you don't respect, so that deadline goes way too far. Now of the 34% of the complaints that are being rejected, the one who complains and we on the ground know them as professional complainants, many of them cause huge damage. The works are standing, no deal can be arranged until the appeal is resolved, when the appeal is dismissed only then there is finally a problem, and especially if it is the units of local self-government that are associated with the budget of certain transactions and the procurement in question. Now, it would be convenient to know because all of us and those who deal in public procurement are the highest percentage is the cheapest offer, which is ultimately not the most economical solution for all of us. What are your instructions, which are your guidelines in this direction to reduce your deadlines, this reasonable period of thirty days, and what you suggest in this sense so that those who complain will be sanctioned unfounded and compensated for the damage they cause by their regrets to unfounded units of local self-government, regional self-government and all those who are in public procurement procedures.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88946	Replication response, Goran Matešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88947	As far as you're concerned, you've brought into contact the number of dropped objects with the length of the duration. This shown, length of time has been used, which means that in some case it's much shorter, in some case it's much longer and now you know what statistics are. Of course, in cases which determine the procedural assumptions that must be established immediately at the beginning, there is an early decision-making process, so after a few days if there is no assumption. In some cases, however, it is necessary to ask the complainant to correct the complaint, to pay compensation if it is not and then to reach some period of time. But in principle, objects that are rejected relatively quickly are decided relatively quickly. The question of your suggestions is the lowest price or any other criterion. I don't know if it's a place, but the State Commission is the same, I think it's the seat of the Parliament, but if it's our report. The state commission must have an opinion. The recommendation is the shortest economic best offer as a criterion for better development in the law, will be usable and can be used.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88948	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First in debate on behalf of the Croatian Labourers' Club of Representatives, Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88949	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Given the subject and importance of this Commission, when we turn it into money 21 billion and some million subjects of public procurement according to the data contained in the report, I must express my dissatisfaction and surprise that Mr Mejesic speaks of such an important report quite unstructuredly for a few minutes as if he was absolutely not interested in the subject, and I can understand it because he did not present a report on his work, but rather in the work of the Commission last year. He came to the Commission a short time ago, so he probably easily approached the opening argument. First question if I can get a final answer. First, how many members of the Commission with today's number? By law, the Commission should have nine members. I ask if the Commission has 9 or 8 members? Secondly, the number of members and whether they are filled is not a commission, but we, or those who, by law, must propose a selection of appointments to the Parliament. Secondly, the report says that in the last year by the end of that year, the commission only acted with 3 members and that it did not affect the commission's work. Such a finding means you don't have to be 9, that's enough 3. Because if only 3 members of the commission have been able to carry out their duties properly since the 8th or 9th months, then they come out neatly and in a way that has not affected the quality of the work means that they have enough 3 members. I don't believe it's enough 3 members, I'm not sure it's enough, but I'm opening this question up because once someone answers, which is why the commission wasn't filled up until 31.12.200, not just until now, I'm saying that it's not fully filled, that the ninth member of the commission is gone. If the data here is accurate. Secondly, this is one of the few bodies that are on "self-financing" under quotes because they have achieved revenue of 14 million 110, and the budget is 7 million 831 thousand. So they created a positive effect in the state budget. That's good from the cost. Whether the costs of the appeal proceedings are too great is a different matter now, but I remember doing these certain changes and by European standards introduce norms that the costs of the appeal procedure are equally relative to the value of the dispute but at certain amounts. Why I said that this commission is very important, I will look forward to a report for this year and hear and participate in the debate for the following year after the staff changes, 17,831 subjects of public procurement worth 21.9 billion kuna of 619 different ordermakers. And... in 2013 either in Croatia. 2298 complaints were received by the commission, of which, if calculated and transferred from earlier years, 2101 or 92% were resolved. In this percentage of resolution, complaints are more successful than those who report to the Parliament. The number of complaints in last year compared to 2012 increased by almost 12% and the value of public procurement in last year compared to 2012 was double, doubled. In 2012, it was 11.5 billion, in the past 21.9. In practice, this commission, on behalf of the Croatian Parliament, is keeping watch and resolving public procurement complaints worth 22 billion kunas of state money, local and regional self-government money. I'm gonna do this three more times later because of what I think is missing in this report. It's interesting and it's a good display of complaints in stages. And the commission reports that since 2098 of the 1463 complaints, there have been decisions by those who have made public procurement and I understand that. But there were also 528 complaints of public procurement and documentation. Given that the commission has the role of the appeal body, the interest of the Parliament and the Government is to correct the legislative framework if we see, on the basis of their report, that something would be good to fix. Now, what are the reasons for such a big 40% complaint for public procurement and documentation? What's going on here? What are the mourners warning about? What has the commission found, why is the publication and documentation so large a number of appeal procedures? Is there a need to intervene in the law or is it a defamation of regret, for example?? That's what I'd like to know. That's why this committee is there to guide us and educate us and say that something needs to be changed, no, it doesn't need anything because it's the consequence of something else. So, I'd like to ask you in future that and the structure when you're showing the structure of the complaint and the decision itself and the publication and the documentation to explain to us why such a large number of complaints on the publication and documentation. Third, it says in the report that the commission has submitted 7 indictments and 5 of them for not obtaining the requested documentation. And secondly, because the public procurement officer acted contrary to the commission's decision. Who are these 7 public procurement debtors against whom the commission has tabled indictments? Who are these two first men subject to the Public Procurement Act who ignored the commission's decision? Is that what we're supposed to know in Parliament? Because these aren't private companies, they're public sector, state sector, local and regional self-government. If you are already giving information, do not hide who it is that you are, I insist that you present here seven of these institutions or companies that refused to provide you with the documentation and did the opposite of your decisions. The public and the Parliament need to know that, and you have to indicate that in the report. 1938 solved cases and now 672 rejections, and 527 rejections. Why are the appeals dismissed? Irregularity 289, injustice 159, lack of legal interest 131, maladministration 12, inadmissibility 1, remaining 80. And those complaints were dropped. And why 527 were denied, which is the reason for the refusal of the complaint, is not in the report. You've shown the rejections well, and what are the reasons for the rejection of the appeal? The parliament passed the law, a large number of them and complained particularly to private investors, entrepreneurs to get something wrong with the public procurement system and the law itself. And how do we correct the law if you don't tell us what the problem is? 527 of 1938, structure of denied complaints. If you gave for discards, give for rejected reasons. You told Mr. Matesic it was probably about the lack of education of the complainant. When you handled each other’s bodies and submitted reports to the Parliament, you always wrote that many laws were quite unspeakable. Is it really about ignorance, if I were to refer you to and ask you, namely the Ministry of Economy, which is the Ministry of Economy for this area, it was also reported during the term of office during HDZ and now, it seems to be a great effort precisely in the field of education and application of new legal regulations and to make there are fewer disputes. What is your cooperation with the Ministry of Economy? Whether these perceived weaknesses in the system, the reasons for the rejection and refusal of complaints, you are delivering to them that they could be in the position of proposing the repairs of the legislative solutions that we have in Croatia or you are not interested in and you have narrowly focused just as on the appeal body because there is no word in this report, so you have not given the Assembly anything that could be used to assess the quality of the legislative solution. You also write that it is often the case that the complainants do not appear in the contest following the resolution of complaints when the public procurement is announced and the documentation after the appeal has been completed. So they go with the appeal, obviously delay the procedure, when their appeal is resolved then they do not report in the competition process. Or we can just figure it out, we just have to stop and there's some legal remedy because obviously we're about intent or delay or spin, setting up a competition. This is a serious thing you wrote, I'm taking this with a big warning. So, what's this about? Maybe there's a common denominator for them. If you'd given us information on who they are and which sectors at least that happens most often, in which areas, then you might have the impression that it's some kind of interesting lobby. I can only guess now, I'm not talking about sectors I think they're doing. Mayors, the mayors may already be able to recognize it, but if you are already giving such findings it is obviously true, give us a lesson as it happens, as it is possible because the complaint is not free, so someone risks part of the money and then does not appear in the competition procedure later, and took 2, 3 months for a while. These are serious things and from the reports of your commission or me in the Parliament, or in the Government, we should either create any changes or conclude that there is no problem in the legislative framework, but accept your claim that the complainants are not sufficiently educated. Then maybe we should open up some preschool for them to be educated. And finally, the following, it is good that you gave a review to all public authorities by the number of complaints, the number of cases of public procurement, the number of complaints and the number of complaints adopted or rejected. Because of the lack of time, I can't apostrophe but for my own need, I made another plate for all of them, I put in the tables, in the first table all those in which the number of complaints was greater than one-third of the public procurement procedures. So you have, say, Croatia's forests that have 62% complaints, so out of 163 public procurement procedures 101 complaints were made, 62%. Such pearls in the state government, and especially in the area of healthcare that crosses as much as 60% is very much, but that's just one criterion. And the second table is the percentage of complaints received. And when I look at the table where the complaints were adopted, a larger number in 33% of one-third, we're spinning again in the same circle. And yet it happens that no one, even there's one 100% if they're going to find him in a hurry, who was with 100% of the complaints, so whatever complains, everything is respected by the commission. These data should be an alarm for those who are watching over the legality of work. 5% of complaints, 10, 15, 20 go 20% of complaints, but anything more than one-third points to the alarm. So this table right here in this report processed as I did myself should be a good warning to the resolution ministers, especially in the field of health care to see what's happening to them in their institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88950	Thank you. Fellow Members Ivan Grubisic and Damir Kajin from the Independent Representatives Club are not present and lose the right to debate on this point. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, Vice-President Milorad Batinic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88951	Thank you, Madam Vice President. President with associate, colleague and colleague. In fact, tonight's debate on the work of the State Commission will be almost identical except with other statistics, unlike my 2012 debate. More or less what counterpart Lesar said in a statistical way could be updated. I'm going to try very briefly in my address to say some shortcomings, as I believe there are shortcomings. In fact, when we talk about the total number of public procurement procedures and through electronic form around 17, closer to 18,000. Last year, I asked that there be a total purchase value in the report so that we could compare it to the purchase value that is in the appeal procedure. how much I failed to read in this report. Although this amount of purchase value that is in the appeal procedure over nearly 22 billion is impressive and I also hope that it is not in proportion to the number of complaints around 11% that and those 22 billion are not 11% of the total of public procurement which would not be logical. What I would also like to highlight about the work itself or the report and the commission is the number of employees, it is a team of 32 people and when we put it in touch with the number of days needed to make a decision by appeal which is now significantly smaller than it was in 2012, and especially compared to 2011 from 61 to 59 now 39, I believe that it would, and I believe that in your focus too, what is also to reduce to a minimum as much as possible. Namely, I'm part of that time 16 days from the completion of complaints to I'm going to tell a powerful solution on your part, 16 days I think that part of the 23 days that it takes to complete an appeal that should be shortened, whether by intervention in the law itself or your certain directions, I think it's a space where you can make a far greater shift in the number of resolution complaints. Because the fact is that both the orderers and the complainants are interested in these 39 days, it's working days, and if we narrow it down, it means they're on average about two months. When you look at the number of people 32 employed, now not entering the structure itself, and when you put into the context of 2101 the resolved complaint turns out to be one employee, looking at all 65 complaints or slightly less than 4 complaints on one employee. When you're looking at it and looking at it these 39 days, when you're looking at the context for 16 days and those 23 try to think that way. Of course, not entering a particular complaint structure because the process of obtaining one from another is a big difference, a certain specificity. But if you're looking at a year's workdays, you're a team of 32 and turns out to be 4 days a single complaint. Try to see, see where there is a possible space for rationalizing the time of processing the appeal procedure. Don't take this as a criticism, more like a recommendation to see where and how. Whether it is necessary, and you have also stressed in the report the additional teaming, I agree, all with the goal of shortening the appeal deadline. Because when you're looking at it I was just in the 2011 report when we're discussing 22 billion kuna, if we narrow it down to 2 months, take your annual interest rate and see how not literally but in a banking sense how much interest on that money is tied up when the money is practically dead. What I would also like to highlight is what is right, which I commend, are the relapsers I have warned about, meaning the statistics of the relapsers in the public sector to which five and more complaints have been made. There would certainly be, of course, this information is also available to the State Audit, which also goes into audit control. But also on the trail of what my colleague Lesar said and this statistical data and this table that he performed on his own, and believe me, the vast majority of us who watched also came here means that there are some who are even more than a relapser. This certainly indicates that public procurement education must never cease in the public sector. In fact, these indicators show that it is insufficient, that it is insufficient and that this debate should also point to re-reciprocalists and those who repeat virtually believe the same errors in the public procurement process itself. I was talking about the time I believe it's an extra teaming, whether it's by incurring amendments and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, simplifying certain procedures. And I'd also like you to consider shortening the procedure for completing public procurement. Whoever's ready, who has an interest, believe me, he doesn't need me, I don't know about 10 or 15 days to complete the paperwork, he's got the paperwork or she's gone. And beyond that, I believe that it would establish his legal interest whether business or any other level of whether he has it or not. I think that's where you'll get the support of this Home too, and I don't think it's going to be contrary to the legal solution. What I would also like to point out is the same way that you are giving the possibility, that is, that is, the law gives administrative judicial protection and totality, meaning in this table I don't know which page of the case is 2101 solution, 118 lawsuits on cases received and solved in 2013 which is about 5.62%. Here you have also cited in statistics, meaning that 31 solutions from 118 was received, 20 in lawsuits, 20 cases rejected, however 5 lawsuits were passed. If we put those five lawsuits in the statistics, that's from 118, then that's more than okay. However, if we refer to 31st means that the verdict of the administrative court has come, it is an extremely high percentage. That's 16%. Why am I saying that? When we speak, it means that the lack of education of the complainant is an even greater need for the meaning of the public contracting authorities. I believe that you are also aware, I say it depends on the human structure that you have that absolutely education in your ranks must be primary. I ask the question of what went wrong, why did the administrative court in five cases of 31 find that the lawsuit was justified by the administrative court? That's what I'd like to see in this report. It's human error. But I'm saying, you don't have to hide anything, I think it's definitely supposed to be an integral part of the report. The assessment of the state of legal protection in public procurement therefore states the appeal procedure, so you cited as one of the reasons for the continuing growth of the economic crisis, the confidence of the parties in the work of the State Commission, raising the level of knowledge among the complainants about their rights in the legal protection procedures in public procurement, is my suggestion and I think it can be read out of the debate the lack of education of public contracting authorities. Because complaints would have been dismissed at the very beginning if they had been unfounded if the contracting authorities hadn't committed certain oversights and failures. What I would also like, and you pointed out in your anti-corruption report, I agree. However, I would agree more strongly that we have data from nearly 18,000 public procurements as financially as compared to 11 and some of the amount of the complaint has been lodged at 22 billion. And I also believe that you are following, you have reports on the '11s and '12s and this year also whether it is possible, because I saw among these relapsers also mention the city of Zagreb. It's a very interesting topic, whether, have you noticed, if perhaps, I would personally work if I were a member of the State Commission, if I were you would personally be interested in whether in some cases, we'd find out if there were any elements interested in whether a complaint has been made through your procedure or certain public procurement procedures and is being established or whether, in the future, it is likely that there have been certain criminal acts. Just like one kind of lesson. And I say, if I were you, it would personally intrigue me very much. What I would also like to point out is, in the end, no less important, recommendations for the development of public procurement systems and conclusions. I would ask this if it isn't in, there is no practice to transfer your experiences to the State Audit and Public Procurement Administration in the Ministry of Economy. Because none better than you in the system of resolving complaints can see, you can also see certain shortcomings in regulation. To change a certain law, a certain one, and we were changing it just for professional objectors, that was just your intensity. I ask and appeal, I believe that you will get the support of all of us here, what you think, for simplifying the procedure, no guessing in terms or perhaps creating a wider space anti-corruption activity must have, keep your effect in it but try to see where there is room for rationalization and in terms of rationalising time from these 39 days. I believe you have space, I want you to have the next report or report for this year to get some analysis and that you might be able to get the team in line with the needs and you don't need to be afraid. What my colleague, Lesar, also mentioned in the report, and I mentioned it last year, you have, one of the few agencies or state administration houses, so to speak, which I could even say on self-financing that you make a living in that part. The HNS Club will support this report on the basis of everything presented and with these recommendations that I have mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88952	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88953	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Gentlemen of the State Commission. Well, maybe none of the topics are so media-attractive and exposed as public procurement. You don't have time to mention in media articles that this guy or that guy did something wrong. That is why the HDZ Club was against it when the Parliament increased the line for which no procurement procedure was required. However, what I want to say at the beginning is, it bothers me that the Commission and the State Audit do not react to something that often happens, which is cumulative procurement to the amount to which public procurement is not needed, so several different businesses are being made to you. And I think it's simply a matter of warning, and it's a joint job, and it should also be the State Audit and the State Commission, because I think it's the space where certain corrupt acts usually take place. As far as the report itself is concerned, it is technically correct. Perhaps, at least that's what I think at the HDZ Club, this kind of report should basically serve as a basis for possible proposals, amendments to the legal rules. Because if a lack of one law can be detected anywhere, especially one of these important laws, then it can be seen in the appeal proceedings of abuse of appeal, because I think in a little complaint, there are so many abuses of the appeal procedure in a little bit of second-degree proceedings, as is the case with the complaint in the procurement commission. I'll talk more about it later. But what I would like to say at the beginning is nice to say that there has been almost 100% higher revenue than what the costs for the Commission's work have been. But when we look at the fees to be paid in regret, then you'll see that there's a small one in an unfavourable position, and I think maybe we should just think about doing something to reduce their fee. But what we can also see from this report and what we saw today's State Budget Implementation Report and this report reflects the economic crisis and recession in the Republic of Croatia. Because the increased number of complaints is not the result of education and because those who complain have a lot of knowledge about public procurement and about how the public procurement process looks, but because it appears several times, sometimes a few dozen times more bidders than it did in previous years because there is simply no job. Public procurement officials are honestly saying the only investors in the Republic of Croatia at this time starting with units of local self-government, via the state. And it's in everyone's best interest to get into that budget cake. Because once you enter it, you get certain knowledge and knowledge, and in the next competition, it will be much easier for you to stay in that cookie than to fight to move someone here. And that's one of the reasons why there's so many complaints. And what I don't understand is, in fact, a man asks himself how someone can call a competition and that in the competition, he has a fundamental error from the very decision to conduct a public tender and documentation. Because when you look at the number of complaints that apply, the majority of complaints are practically related to documentation, some kind of administrative error when you file a competition. Now one basic question is how can someone go into the public tender process when what is seen from the complaint is some kind of administrative error. And then we can think about what's going on next, because if someone does quality paperwork and everything for the contest how this kind of formal mistake can happen and that practically complaints are adopted. And that's the same signal that maybe there's some things that need to be changed because someone can also do it on purpose because someone didn't answer if they were to pick up, and then make some kind of formal mistake to cancel out. So these are all the facts that we should not run away from, which we in this High House must in no way ignore for the simple reason that tomorrow, when changes are found and the law is complemented, then we must be aware that it is changing because of that and that. I am sorry that the Commission has not yet been filled in because we see that in 2013, in fact, in 2012 compared to 2011 and 2013, the deadline for the procedure was reduced compared to 2011. This is proof that there were more people and that simply the administrative potential of the Commission, the independence of the Commission is a prerequisite for the peaceful sleep of all those who are carrying out public procurement because I think it is crucial. Anyone who honestly thinks and thinks, if a certain object is found in his complaint and if that complaint is not adopted or adopted, then he is in principle confident that the job has done well. It is therefore necessary for the Commission to have a sufficient number of professional people to have sufficient administrative capacity to be able to process the subject in quality. And when we look at her stats a little bit, maybe I should say that we financiers like to say that she's missing a little more meat, so she'd be more complete and better. But then these tables show that in 2013, I already said that at the beginning there was an increased number of complaints, but I say only as a consequence of the long economic crisis. Because when you look at the number of complaints, it suddenly jumped in 2008 when in the second half of 2008 a slight decline in gross domestic product in the Republic of Croatia began. And all these crisis years it keeps growing at an annual level, even at a certain age and 50%. I repeat, this is something that perhaps a legal change or some suggestion of yours should prevent. Because on-call complainants and public tender destroyers simply need to be eliminated from the market, because they have no fair intentions if you have some companies complaining in every way possible. Then when you dig a little bit better on their papers, then you can see that they're not able to do the job at all, and they're doing the job for someone else to crash the competition because someone might not have been able to prepare or anything else. It is also very interesting to see this table on page 25, which is the number of complaints received against certain stages of the procurement process in the concession process and the selection process of a private partner in public private partnership projects. Why is this table interesting? Well, because by amending the Law on concessions in Croatia, there are now thousands and thousands of concession contracts. Many of these concession contracts date back to ten and fifteen years ago, and it is very important that these proceedings of appeal are slowly being seductive. And the public private partnership I hope that I will not anger my colleague from a club is something that has neither brought Croatia back, and where there have been major problems for local self-government units because they have remained committed to these procedures. Although some things are specifically well and quality-made, but I say in the appeal procedures you can also see which traps the public-private partnership hides. Because if anything matters, it's in a public private partnership, these are maintenance costs and things like that. Because it's basically a key argument that you're going to choose for a particular project. After all, those who have a public private partnership in Europe have far more and longer to fight than the Republic of Croatia. However, it is very interesting to look at this statistical table, which is on three, four pages, which shows us the number of public procurement procedures carried out, the number of complaints and how many complaints were adopted. In most cases, the number of complaints received is around 10, possibly 15%. This proves how many professional complainants there are, because perhaps there is only one missing at the end of this table that you have made suma sumarum as much as there have been public procurement processes, in fact how many procedures have been initiated, how much has been received, and how many complaints have been adopted, and it will give the best answer to what I was saying at the beginning, and that is unfortunately present, it is these so-called so-called. professional objectors. Because colleagues and colleagues, if at this point we have about 6 billion funds frozen in the public procurement process, because let's not think that if someone complained so the process went through, you re-schedul the competition and it goes several times. And many projects, and above all, about budgetary funding sometimes even loses funds because they do not withdraw funds in the course of one year and then creates a problem in the following year. And I'm saying, no matter what we're talking about the private sector, however, the private sector has unfortunately died, and at this point the public sector is the main investor, and that is why the role of this Commission is very important. Now that you look at page 38 of the complaint solved in 2013 you have since 1938 the complaint has been adopted or 28.54%. However, the question arises if such a high percentage of complaints are received whether those carrying out public procurement are educated or not educated. Does anyone who has proposed the law need to adopt certain regulations to define how certain things are carried out? Because I'm saying, if there's a number of complaints about the paperwork, then there's definitely some things that have to change there. So I don't owe you any more. In the end, there are also numbered which are the most frequent irregularities identified by the State Commission and then you will see that these are all sort of benign things. And the question arises whether someone did it on purpose to allow someone to compete. But I'm saying, the public procurement process and the Commission's solution is a guarantee of a peaceful dream, at least it should be for all those who are investigating a public tender. However, the key thing is that if you have a procedure that has ended at the Commission, at the appeal of the Commission for procurement and the Commission has confirmed that there has been no irregularities and the process is further under way, and then whoever has not passed the appeal procedure is also initiating a criminal application against you, etc. So if the Commission has found that something is ok. Then I see no reason why any further institutions in the state are doing the same job again instead of taking the documents made by the Commission and using these documents as something relevant that is done in accordance with the positive legal rules. And that's the same thing, what we in Croatia will have to get used to if we have independent regulatory bodies. ... The Board of Appeals is a public procurement process to the regulatory body. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But if an independent parliamentary body is doing its job and if it has done something, then all other institutions of the state should take their solutions as something relevant, something that is in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Croatia and stick to it. If someone later in the public procurement process makes a mistake, then you can see it because the commission approved something, and something was done besides that, then it's quite clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88954	Thank you. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88955	You've told a colleague, and you're right there, that a large number of unfounded complaints, angry complainants, and that's a big problem. At the same time, however, you argued in your discussion that these fees should be cheaped. However, we have just changed the law just so that in some way we can reach out to the adjudicators with the fact that you can never, in any case, prevent a statement of appeal, but only that opens up the problem so that these are still mechanisms to see how to discourage those who are convinced themselves that they will not succeed and that the appeal is just like that. Finally, the report shows how many complaints were not only rejected but rejected. Now, we've had periods, maybe this is an opportunity to remember periods, and I believe that we're going to come into a more peaceful period, this is simply the principle of a slaughterhouse when we now have a large number of complainants and those who are convinced themselves that they're wrong. It's been a long time, it's been a long time when those who have been damaged have not dared to make a complaint at all. I think you'll, like it or not, agree with my findings. So here's how we pay our taxes. But I think with this work let the commission carry on, it should give him even better tools that will come to one time when indeed such an institute will be used by those who are truly convinced that their rights in this process have been violated.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88956	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88957	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Antičević and I have agreed in principle on everything, but there is something that is always controversial and a matter of dispute when you determine that someone should pay some sort of fee to approach somewhere. So, it's all good to bring her to some level so that these professional complainants don't complain. However, we must also be aware that there are many of those young ones who are otherwise disfigured throughout the story. And in pre-departure deals, and in bankruptcy and in public procurement, because they are aware if they complain of any action if they object to the great one that they will never get a job. That's what we all know, and we don't have to stare at it, and now we pretend it's not like that. Even if with this fee, we make it impossible for them to appeal if someone doesn't even decide to complain, then I don't think we did it right. But it's very difficult to pull some kind of limit, which is what. But the most important thing is that you and I both know when the commission started what was going on and how it was happening. However, when you introduce something new and when it's new and I say so because accepting a complaint is a repressive measure for this commission, you've driven someone away, but that's how it's done. Because you can't say we passed the law and everything will work. But it is very important that both the reports of the Commission and these other data we have and the legislative changes, and perhaps some rules that lead to the Commission as well as those who are discussing the procurement process and who, together, are involved in eliminating those who are unfairly involved in the whole story. And that's what you call it. professional objectors. You also remember certain purchases, as I know, here's the case of highway gravel. The guy complains, and he can't deliver this. Or you have something else, complaining about someone not competing. Therefore, it is something that needs to be eliminated because Croatia needs every economic activity at the moment. Now, how to reconcile it to each other is very difficult.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88958	Thank you. Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88959	You mentioned a high percentage of the complaints you received. I would just counteranalyze a high percentage of rejected or suspended complaints for those tables. If it turns out here that in 2013, 28% were adopted and 72% rejected and suspended, and it's worth 21 billion 942 million kuna, when we put it in those percentages, then it's huge money. And about what the president said about the longevity of the procedure itself because of some kind of documentation that was not delivered in time or various reasons seems to be enormous damage. So, there's work to be done, there's no deal to be arranged for someone's appeal to be rejected, and there's no sanction for that. On the contrary, if he was wrong about something, there is a sanction. And what's particularly true in this report is what's not the subject of this report and what the commission is not about, and it's about ours, when we see that this is about 21 billion and 942 practically 22 billion kuna, it's about companies that are 100% owned or units of local self-government or state property already someone. So they in this part don't conduct public procurement in this way. There is, therefore, no analysis of their purchases in this section and the question is what is happening in this sphere. I'm not saying it's happening, but looking at this, these 28% you mentioned in relation to local self-government units, the state and all of us public procurement taxpayers are asking the question of how it's done there.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88960	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88961	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Klaric, when I said that this 28% high percentage was said in the context that the most complaints were the very process of publishing competitions and documentation. So speaking in that context. Because if 28% of complaints are adopted that someone didn't make the right documentation or the decision to conduct a public tender, then it's a terrible lot. Because these 28% blocked nearly 3 billion practically funds that could be used normally and probably several hundred or several thousand unemployed in Croatia would be less. So, there's talk about what reason for the appeal and whether or not someone is running a public tender, then the procedure is known, what documentation should be made, and not you practically didn't even call a public tender, but the team complains about the documentation. So that's the problem and those are the things that need to be cleared up and that need to be solved. And if this happens to someone two or three times, then it is simply necessary to warn certain institutions in the Republic of Croatia that there is something going on that is not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88962	Vice President Milorad Batinic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88963	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Namely, when you spoke in your debate, a total of 17,831 procurement procedures were published. The appeal procedure was adopted in 2013. 2098 items, or exactly 11.77%. All proceedings which were in the appeal procedure were independently dismissed for irregularities, whether it was for the sake of a decision, etc. They went through to say so through the hands of the commission. 88% of the cases were not seen by the commission. So I believe that in these 11.77% that the prosecution authorities you mentioned are probably looking for, if they got the data, but 87% of the procurement procedures were never seen. When you were talking about a peaceful dream, etc. That's where I couldn't agree more. I just remind myself that 88% of the total public procurement procedures published are none of the competent nor the commissions, nor has anyone else seen except the contracting authorities and those who were in the process, in the procurement procedure. So the assumption is that the law enforcement authorities in these particular cases were looking for both of these and eventually found some irregularities.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88964	Ivan Shuker's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88965	Now we're going back to what's always there, and that's if there's multiple bidders in one public competition, they all have the right to see the documentation, even though everyone's practically finding that there's nothing wrong with me saying any actions that are contrary to the law because there's no need to appeal. It's one sign that it's all okay even though it doesn't have to, and I was talking about a peaceful dream, then I was talking about these cases for which the appeal was filed, so only for those items. And for these others and there you're not sure, and I'm not talking like this when you pass the contest, because the best thing is when a competition goes by no one wants to, and then some affair or some article gets pushed into the paper and then thousands of people show up and I could do it like this, I could do it like that. And then you look at his offer, then the offer has nothing to do with what hiss I could do like this, I could do it like that. However, every negative article in these times of crisis, and even in normal times, in the newspapers, is causing a lot of damage to every company, hence its so-called. Good will which unfortunately is in Croatia still does not mean God knows what, thus falling.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88966	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Ivo Jelusic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88967	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr Matesic, the president of the commission, colleagues and colleagues. Not to forget, sometimes I forget it, right at the start to say that the SDP club will support this report. In this regard, of course, I expect that all specific suggestions, proposals that I will make in the debate that the commission will take into account in its future work and in its future report. When we talk about the State Commission's report, so we can talk about two levels of problem, it's one thing about the Commission's work and what it wrote, which is easier and narrower if we could say so, and the other is generally in public procurement, which is a little bit wider and harder to discuss because behind it from this report, and we don't have enough data. What I mean is, if we don't say immediately indirectly that we are satisfied with everything in public procurement and that everything is fine, we are satisfied with what the commission has done and what the commission has seen, and how the commission has reacted. Because what we see from this report is that in 2013 in Croatia there were 17 800 rounding up public procurement procedures, of which complaints, have complained about some 2100 procedures, so about 11%. 89% of public procurement procedures are therefore not covered by this report and we don't know what was going on there, but the assumption is if no one complained that there was no problem. So I'm saying, when we talk in general about the state of public procurement, we're talking about all of those 17, 18 thousand procedures that happened, but here, the commission only processed them, which is what they were complaining about, 11 percent of them, so either around 2100. Of course, the commission has no authority to open certain proceedings on its own, the commission can only operate on the basis of an appeal to the Commission and of three, if I can say so by legal or legitimate appeal. Therefore, only one who has a legal basis, a natural or legal person who participated in the proceedings can complain on this basis have some basis to complain, can do so precisely for the public procurement of the Ministry of Economy and the State's Attorney's Office. It is only on the basis of their applications or their complaints that the state commission can and should react. What you see right away in the beginning, which is that in last year 2013, there are far more procedures than it was in the previous year of 2012 and in previous years, it is the first thing you see. Another thing that can be seen... is that most of the entities who have complained about the decision actually complain about 70% of the cases of what is most important, the decision itself, so the contracting authority, so who she chose, and only 30% of the other parts of the procurement process. So the most important thing to them is, which is logical, what is chosen and why is chosen. When we talk about an increase in complaints, we see that in 2004, there were only 760 complaints that were... to the state commission. 2013 2100, so almost 3 times that. On the other hand, when we look at the value of these works covered by complaints or services, which were the subject of the Commission's processing in 2004, the value of the works and services that the complainants were complaining about was 7.2 billion, and now in 2013, 22 billion, so again 3 asks more. What does that data say? That in the last, therefore, 9 or 10 years there have been a much larger number of complaints and that they refer to much larger items of supply, financially speaking. Now why did that happen? Here the commission tried to state in its report the reasons... some of them absolutely, certainly can stay. One is that because of the economic crisis and it is certainly not good and it would be good for these reasons that the fewer complaints are because, when people have no job, they have nothing to do, they grab the straw, they can't simply live without the job that comes from public procurement, they don't have other jobs, so probably the good part and therefore decides, so more complaints than he did before the economic crisis that was, surely there's a reason for that too. The reasons are that the commission also... that this is because of and more trust in the commission, well, maybe there is that, but let the commission not boast itself, let others say it, but there is certainly reason and because people believe the institution they are complaining about. And thirdly, that people, as the year goes by, there are more and more companies, so there are educated people who are simply and more directed into the process, and then see where it was wrong, at first it was probably not even educated people in that sense. What's also important here, and here was the word in the debate about these, the financial aspect, so this job. It is evident, therefore, that the commission costs this state, this budget and these citizens about 6 million, 6.3 million kuna, so much is its expenditure. On the other hand, we see that the Commission directly, so in the budget, provides, if I may put it that way, in the name of the fees that must be paid by those who complain, about 14 million kuna. So looking at that, a simple calculation, you'd say, well, that, well, the commission does well and earns. It's twice as much money as it's spent. However, it is not a reason for profit, but it is simply a reason, and we have just talked about it, that some because the cost of filing complaints is not great, it interferes with many procedures, and projects..., etc., so it is necessary to seriousise the act of appeal itself that it cannot complain as much as anyone wills and that, without any great obligation, without a great financial cost. And in that sense, I think that this rock is the existing rock that we have, so relatively good, I don't see any great reason for it to change. Let's take a look, for example. with the biggest contracts. If the contract is about 70, if the contract is more than 25 million kuna, which the complainant complains about, 70,000 kuna should be paid. Is that a lot? Well, that's about three out of the total value of the contract somewhere, I don't think so. Or if the contract is over 100, over 60 million kuna, so more than 60, so unlimited over 60, you have to pay 100 thousand kuna, that's 1 and a half promil. Is one-and-a-half prom, so what you're gonna pay for is worth fighting for... is worth fighting for, if the chance to get a job that's multiple times, immeasurable, a thousand times more valuable. So, I think that ratio is good. So, on the one hand, we need to prevent people from complaining, and we also don't need an act of appeal to sort of unbagatelize, so that everyone complains so sometimes for reason or reason, and on the other hand, I am dealing with the commission, which is a minor problem, but the bigger problem is that it makes it impossible for certain projects to start, which are simply not going without a public competition. What I would also like to say, and also on the Committee on the Economy, was an observation in the table on page 33, there should be another information that is very important in our opinion, which is, therefore, the number of complaints which have therefore been resolved as adopted, which is their relation to the total number of public procurement procedures that were in that economic operator or institution. Because it is very important because it does not matter whether, therefore, there are 3 received complaints on 100 public procurement procedures or on 10 public procurement procedures, to see how effectively this institution or company is carrying out public procurement procedures in relation to, therefore, the total number of procedures... how many are solved, or how many have been annulled in the end. It is also important, therefore, that the commission itself works, which is therefore happening with the Commission's decision, that we see here that last year 117 complainants expressed their intention or desire to appeal to the Administrative Court, so they are not satisfied with the State Commission's decision. We don't see the total data as much, but for... so from the 31st decision of the Administrative Court that only 5 of them were respected by the Administrative Court, and two of them were found indisputable, and the rest were not challenged. Now, just or much, whether 5 is just or much about it being discussed, I personally think that we should strive to do so and that we should be satisfied that we adopt this report, and the Commission, when no decision by the Board of Administrative Court would cancel, that's what we need to strive for. And if it were, it would be an "A." As soon as something the Administrative Court annuls can't be absolutely satisfactory and completely positive. It's not a big percentage, but of course it's an effort. So we don't have to say that we just have five procedures that the Administrative Court has annulled, but we need to strive to satisfy and thus say that the commission has done well. The Commission has done well we will support it, but with a note it still needs to seek that the Administrative Court does not repeal any decision by the state commission. Thank you very much. I hope I helped.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88968	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. My colleague Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88969	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. This report, so I'd say we can evaluate it as content and transparent. From it I think we can draw certain conclusions about the public procurement system in the Republic of Croatia as it is now, and about possible possibilities of improvement. So I hope this debate of mine will give a little incentive... to discuss in order to further improve that system. So in the opening section, it is pointed out that the State Board of Appeals cannot... by official duty but exclusively by appeal. Therefore, the right to appeal alongside the tenderers is also the central authorities of the state administration, the competent public procurement system and the competent State Attorney's Office. So we here have no idea how the Public Procurement System Administration was doing, which is an authorised complainant, and the State's Attorney's report as far as I was able to review it, we couldn't get more detailed procedures on public procurement control procedures. According to the structure of the complainant mentioned in the report, it seems to me that the administration of the public procurement system or the State Attorney's Office has not filed a single complaint at all, so correct me if I'm wrong, I couldn't establish that information. And it seems to me that control and those procedures in which there were no complaints from private bidders would be necessary. Why do I say that? From the media, conversations with citizens may unfortunately lead to a basis of doubt, so I do not say basic doubt but rather a basis of doubt that let's say weaker degradation, that certain tenders were staged in the sense that the privileged bidder had received a certain job, so as subcontractors he took other bidders of companies that did not compete although they could. It may also be suspected that complaints were not filed in exchange for participation in the very work in which they were later engaged as subcontractors. Probably being there if it really was so the companies were driven by logic that it was a better sparrow in hand than a pigeon on a branch and they agreed to such engagements or did not earn less than to make their competitive offers. So there's a wolf full and sheep in number except for the sheep of citizens who ultimately pay for public services, for example. transports of junk far more expensive than should a few meters of drain... pay three times more expensive than the real price paid through the tax rent of private kindergartens at the price at which three such urban kindergartens could be made, etc., etc. Unfortunately, I say too often in the media we have opportunities to see that certain tenders are constructed in a way that pleases certain bidders, let's say in the purchase of cars where only almost... the vehicle brand in the terms of the competition. Unfortunately, I say again we have cases that the privateer invests 7.8 million kunas in redecorating his business premises in kindergarten and then see the coincidence of the city just two weeks after the completion of the business, the tender for the rental of such kindergarten is right in that position. A complete coincidence and I would say the perfect business intuition of entrepreneurs who engage in such a business venture. And there's no appeal here because imagine the case no one in that area has invested 7.8 million kunas in the arrangement of exactly the kind of space that was called for after the construction was completed. I think... the system allows too little control of such cases. The State Commission shall verify the procedure outside the grounds of appeal, therefore only under legally prescribed conditions and only exceptionally, which is fine. The state commission must be independent and must by no means be in that bathtub and sue, cadiya is suing you. But I believe that certain state bodies would have to additionally and randomly check public procurement procedures in which no complaint was filed to see whether certain correctness exists, such as those I was talking about, or what it was or was to do on the basis of the knowledge that they came from the media, either by a certain application. In the event of irregularities, it should even be prescribed that all the procedures in which the tenderers were in favour of the irregularities involved should be further checked. It seems to me that such treatment is necessary if we are to prevent irregularities in the procurement process in which the public interest has been significantly damaged. The report also states that the anti-corruption action of the state commission certainly contributes to the public publication of all decisions taken on appeal procedures, and I agree with that. But here I believe that this anti-corruption action and transparency of public procurement procedures where there is no official and business secret would contribute to making all the documentation and decisions on public procurement procedures available online and verifiable. At least such data should be available and verifiable to this Public Procurement System Administration and to the State Attorney's Office. Therefore, all documents in public tenders, most of which I am aware in electronic form, should not represent an excessive technical problem. Of course it's also a problem of additional information and better... This system, the principles of eGovernment in the entire Croatian administration system, but I think it is also necessary if we generally want better efficiency and public administration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this connection, this reduction in the average duration of the appeal procedure should therefore be welcomed from 61 days to 39. However, it seems to me that because of the importance of public procurement procedures and for the functioning of public systems, and for the economy, this average duration should certainly be reduced below 30 days. The average time here, however, was 16 days, as stated by the decision of the day of completion of the file of the appeal case. This means basically that completing the file on average takes 23 days. I believe that under this completion of the documentation, I do not have enough information to think about the delivery of the file and obtaining the documents themselves, which could certainly be shortened by implementing the principle of the administration. When we talk about the results of the complaint, we come up with the fact that the complaint was adopted from 29% and 553 cases, respectively, which is growth compared to previous years. I think even somewhat that these figures might be concerned especially when we study that table where some of the customers have huge percentages in which their bids to say so have fallen. This therefore shows that further education is needed for public procurement providers, but it also seems to me to prescribe a certain responsibility for these providers if the procurement procedure falls and then the contracting authority suffers damage. So if there are certain failures and certain negligence I think we should certainly prescribe any disciplinary any other responsibility. So, as I believe this debate should be focused on improving the system, I have a need to point out one general remark. In fact, it seems to me that the public procurement procedure in some parts is being too conservative and too strict. What am I saying? If a private entity is a company, any natural person shall make private purchases of goods or services for himself, he shall actively endeavour to obtain as cheap an offer as possible. So he's not just gonna post an ad and wait passively, so let's see who's gonna call me and I don't know in the neighborhood knows that let's say what he's getting at the store costs a lot cheaper, but that's where the guy didn't check in on the competition, so he's gonna buy more expensive. He's not gonna do that, of course. Here, my impression is as partial as I have, it's too often a case that the orderers are relatively passive, so if someone calls them well, it doesn't matter what has a cheaper offer somewhere. I think that the amendments to the Public Procurement Act should go in this direction to oblige the client to actively find and attract bidders after publication of the ad. So there's just a regulation in this sense that the orderer himself has to make a kind of strict commitment that they have to make an extraordinary effort to find the cheapest offer. I don't know, most ideally, it might be that there is a certain register of potential bidders in public procurement that anyone who wants to be included in. So let's say that if we have a tender for the purchase of office furniture that we have to automatically call, or inform about the competition of all those who are enrolled in... as office furniture providers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here is the principle, I would generally like to hear from the people of the State Commission as the most addressed people from the profession and opinion and suggestions on how the whole system of public procurement will improve to make it as transparent as possible, that as little corruption as possible and that, ultimately, the public sector will receive the highest quality and cheapest goods and services, or works. I think it's also the reason for the normation of this process and the existence of the State Commission and its action in general. Here's the final as I said in the introduction, I gave a positive opinion on this report, and I think we should support it anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88970	Comrade Franjo Lucic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88971	Thank you very much, Vice President. When we talk about public procurement, then we can really say today that this is something that in today's time we've made the previous laws and this law with a lot of changes and additions to public procurement really complicated. I am saying this out of the knowledge of the very people who compete in public competitions but above all as long-time head of local self-government units and with all the knowledge of the current mayors and mayors, our mayors who have also made a request that public procurement be really adapted once so as to tell the simple system of competition that they can choose those who want to compete or who are engaged in public works and public competitions. We are just witnessing that today in today's time when we are crying out for numerous investments both at levels and units of local, regional self-government but certainly also state investment we come to absurdity that simply, and here fellow Shucker was talking about some 6 billion kunas that are frozen through this or through what we are not able to run these capital investments. Of course, through this vision, they would also reduce the number of unemployed people at the Employment Service, in order to start many companies that today especially in the building sense of the base camp and who are struggling with survival. At the same time, we have provided money through the institutions of the state budget, through funds, through various different funding and at the same time through this law which is extremely complicated, we have failed to ensure one transparency of the implementation of the procedure. As I have said in my replication a few words, I will tell you from my own example in my Požega-Slavon County, and as far as the county road administration is concerned, and we are witnessing that there are major disputes about the public procurement of the county road administration, as well as other capital investments. So in my county, we've opened a tender at the county road office. I'll, of course, use the short data. At the beginning of this year or more precisely 12.3.2014 the best bidder in 2.7.2014 was selected, of course I will not be talking about company names here. Two complaints followed. The State Commission’s decision on public procurement for public proceedings has therefore been answered since 18 September and you have been delivering data to ZUC, so 90 days have passed since your first announcement following the two complaints that followed. Of course, the County Road Administration under the Law on Contracting must conclude by 15.10.2014 a winter service contract for 2014. After that, you can also see the ads, but that was another 20 days with a certain interpretation of the complaint itself. Of course, the inspector involved in the inspection and surveillance of the county roads orders the head of the county road management to conclude the contract. He's wondering who to make a contract with when I only got a solution from you a few days ago, so from a public procurement in which you're not told what you're looking for. So the question arises, how and how can we simply continue further work, further bargaining, and winter is at our door. I ask you to really consider this procedure for the county road management in an urgent procedure and to solve it as soon as possible so that we can protect people and objects from the coming winter, because we know that without a firm contract with the provider of the county road administrations we will not be able to do so. This is just one example as follows, so we've lost a whole year and we've come to an end of the year, and we don't have a solution. I didn't say someone was doing it on purpose. There have been some problems in the public procurement itself, we're aware of everything, but the facts say exactly what I said were insurmountable and we're in front of a wall. When we talk about public procurement in general, then we must say, and here my colleagues have said, that all these complaints that the complainants are referring to you are too expensive and that they require great resources and that the lawyers profit most from it. Simply some companies compete who will send more complaints or rather has not yet sent an offer, and has already prepared a complaint. I don't know if we could have come up with certain regulations in this past period that would have changed public procurement or if we needed a European Union that would order us to and how to conduct the procurement tender. If we know that all Member States are obliged to align their public procurement systems with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, which, again, changes and opens up new technologies. In the future, it will no longer be the lowest price criterion, but only the most economically favourable offer. It enables easier, wider and simpler application of the negotiation process of public procurement that is now used only in concrete situations such as breaking a contract of up to 25% due to urgency and the like. In fact, Croatia has entered the European Union but no one has forbidden us to make our public procurement process as effective as possible and as far as possible. It is all our presentations today that our colleague and colleague are saying that something hasty and not waiting for 2016 and compliance with the European Directive that while we are waiting and waiting for that time, we should really fix the public procurement as best we can. We have a series of examples in the county, local administrations, and we're not happy with this public procurement, with all the respect we've made, the changes and additions we've increased from 70,000 to 200, 500 thousand for construction works, so no public bidding. That's certainly commendable. This is precisely what makes transparency and indicators that such changes and additions have made one progress in public procurement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88972	Thank you. And the final word of Commission President Goran Matesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88973	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Today, it is a pleasure to be a rapporteur in this case, because I conclude that even the most critical discussions are, most critically, all well-intentioned with advice that says that there is a considerable consensus in this House on the importance of public procurement that pleases us. I'll speak quickly because I want to say a lot, and I'm far from the surface that was suggested. True, two and a half months this year, three members worked for the end of the term instead of five. However, it should be said that it did not feel much more selfless and responsible and extraordinary efforts during the 13th year. The complaints of the phases of the different commentators pointed out that. This is good and bad, but it is the principle of European legislation that a multi-stage appeal can be made, and then it does not have to be said that a phase of the documentation does not have to wait for the decision to be followed. This in some cases gives good results, in some cases occurs more complaints depending on the multiple phases. In some cases, we have abuses that in some ways have responded to this House of Commons and prevented the amendment of legislation. The inquiry was an accusation of whether names could be made public. They are not a secret as to the State Commission, it is questionable that personal data protection can be made public. But they're always according to specific people, there's no anonymous application. The reasons for the refusal were not explained in the report by the esteemed representative Lesar. Well, the reasons for rejection are no illegality. I mean, the reasons why the appeal is being made is a suspicion of the illegality of conduct. If these reasons are not determined, these are the reasons for the rejection. So it's legal. The educators' education that the esteemed representative Lesar said we educate the orderers and why we have a large number of rejections. Well, the complainant's complaints are dismissed. They're not subject to education. The state educates the public sector, the contracting authorities. The complainants basically use private lawyers. As a result, one possible conclusion is that if there is a large number of rejections, complaints that those who complain are having problems with the use of legal protection. A reference to the lack of report on advantages and acquisitions and other suggestions, the State Commission gives the information that the law has prescribed, so I have told many others. The data systems that were given, I'm not saying it's perfect. She can be improved. Some suggestions in this direction we can correct, not correct suggestions but adopt because basically by computer system we run statistics and so, it can adapt to requirements. However, even beyond what the law forces the Commission to submit in the annual report data under the same law, the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia may also request in a shorter period and some other information. Therefore, there is no problem in the supply of such data. A cut in the deadlines has been discussed by many about the deadlines. The cut-off has some elements. Assumption is, some speakers have said that customers are in a hurry to make public procurement, which in some cases is not the rule. The counterproductive treatment of those same contracting entities which, when the appeal is made, do not immediately provide documentation and could because they know the regulation should do so. In some cases, however, more conclusions are needed to obtain this complete documentation. A reduction in the time limit in the principle that, however, a reduction in time should not be called into question by legal certainty, for example, strategic investments and investments in which the procurement documentation is received in one room. This documentation simply needs to be read, it simply needs to be studied, and it simply needs to be controlled from all sides. Why does it take time? Administrative protection suggestions are on good statistics of the State Commission and whether it should be a clean five. It should be said that the practice of administrative courts in the same cases is different. So we have in the same cases the different treatment of administrative courts. Administrative courts are first instance in charge of handling administrative lawsuits. They are three territorial, four territorial courts of which they are probably or certainly a Zagreb court which is actually the most experience there, but they have different practices. Cumulative acquisitions, therefore, cumulation of adjudicated procurement as an example of abuse in principle are based on the complainant's initiative. The mourner who notices it will complain. The one who doesn't notice will not complain. So, in principle, the State Commission can notice that and can decide on that abuse only when there is an initiative in that direction. The lack of reports, sectoral contractors, that's what gets fixed. One, Honorable parliamentary representative Klaric said we have little information on this, it is to be corrected. And at the end of the data on the number of complaints received in relation to that, it's that blacklist or re-repeated as you've said, that's the data that can be expressed in that percentage, and it's actually going to be able to help this House draw conclusions. I think I've answered everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88974	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report most likely Friday. We'd be done with it tonight. Tomorrow, at 9.30, we will continue the debate session on the report on the use of EU pre-accession programmes for the period 1 July to 31 December 2013. Goodbye. Session interrupted at 18.37 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-22-0.u88975	Annual report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2013. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. An annual report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2013 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. The vote is closed. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes 96 for, 6 abstentions are accepted in the text as proposed.
