ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64149	Dear fellow MPs, respected fellow representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Before we move to the agenda of the 12th plenary session of the Croatian Parliament, we would like to join the swearing of a colleague. The oath is given in a way that the president reads the text of the oath, and after that, when a representative is called up and pronounces, he swears. The text of the oath reads: "I swear by my honor that I will exercise consciously and responsibly in my work the Constitution and the Law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia." Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64150	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64151	Congratulations. Welcome to our ranks. I want success in working on the well-being of Croatia and Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64152	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64153	We will now, in accordance with the established agenda, move to the debate on - a/ Report on the work of the HRT Programme Council and the implementation of the programme principles and obligations of the HRT Act and the contract referred to in Article 13. Law on HRT; b/ Report on the work of the Croatian Supervisory Board and the Executive Board on the implementation of the supervision of the legality of the work and financial operations of the HRT for the period from 21 February 2011 to 8 May 2012; c/ Report on the operation of the HRT for 2012; d/ Annual Report of the Croatian Programme Council for the period of 19 November 2012 to 31 December 2013; e/ Report on the work of the Supervisory Board on the implementation of the supervision of the legality of the work and financial operations of the HRT in 2012; the debate would be united in order for the clubs to have 20 minutes to discuss the name of the club, and representatives of the applicant 20 minutes for their opening argument. I see the hand of the respected representative John Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64154	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. So the HDZ Club opposes a united debate for several reasons. Points a and b came to this High House in April of last year, 2012, and point c i d came in December and January this year. No one has ever talked with clubs that these points unite, which is kind of a common rule if we want to agree on points and we don't waste time if the points are thematically connected, but the points even when we look at, given the changes and the topics that are being processed, are not so connected, and on the other hand when we look at the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, then I think it's quite clear when you look at those opinions, that these points must be discussed separately. Because if the government doesn't give a favourable opinion for one period, and for another, then you can't discuss these periods at the same time. It is simply that I think that this in the High House, the more the citizens of the Republic of Croatia single out almost a billion and 300 million for public television, must know what the government does not like about financial business for a period of time before the shifts on HRT have been carried out, and what happened so quickly is good and a positive opinion is given for the second period. So if we're going to argue like you suggested, I mean, first of all, that we humiliate the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who, once a month, are hard to give a subscription because they have pensions and salaries, or have lost their salaries in the meantime, are hard to give, I think simply out of respect for them, I don't think we can discuss this, and I'm asking you nicely to discuss them as they are included. They are not listed like this, a, b, c i d because I said that in April 2012 these two points were included separately, and these points two c i d came in December and January at the time of the break and then it was included like this and I am asking you nicely Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament to discuss the point by point because they are thematically different. In the end, I repeat, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has instructed us to discuss this way because... otherwise their opinions are in the reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64155	Thank you very much. I understand the problem you're talking about, but I would now only determine myself regarding the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This is how the proposed agenda was adopted at the beginning of the session, it was not in line with the Rules of Procedure, and now we cannot even revise the agenda. Despite all the arguments, I suggest that we continue our work as it is in the agenda. Yes, sir. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64156	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, given the new situation, given that colleagues from the HDZ Club have prepared their debate in this agenda, I am asking you on behalf of the HDZ Club for half an hour.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64157	Okay. Who else is answering? Croatian Labourists, HDSSB.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64158	Same reason we're looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64159	We understand, we understand. We'll set a break. Ten minutes is enough. At 9.50. Thank you very much. I'll see you at 9.50. It's 9:00.38. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] HDZ club and respected representative Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64161	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. We have warned several times in this House that the agenda of the counter Rules of Procedure has been changed and processed. So in April 2012 two points of the 2011 Report of the Programme Council of the HRT, Report of the Supervisory Board of the HRT, were included on the agenda for the discussion of this High House. And if you look at the last official consolidated agenda in December 2013, these points are explicit as the special two points mentioned. At the time of the parliamentary break came new reports on the operation of the HRT, Report of the Supervisory Board of the CROMAC for 2012, Report of the Programme Council for 2013. In the stenogram when they could only be included on the agenda, and you were holding Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament's session, you did not mention any addition of those points, nor did you give a new recast to the vote and put it on the agenda as such. In the stenogram made by the professional services of the Croatian Parliament there is no such thing. And this agenda that we then found at the beginning of the new year on the benches simply all of a sudden became one common item of the agenda. It is against the Rules of Procedure, it is against the practice of the Croatian Parliament, it is a fraud of all those who have warned for a year and a half that we have to discuss the reports since 2011, and it would be logical to discuss them before we have made changes and additions to the Law on HRT because these reports should have been a platform and a basis for possible discussions on amendments and addition of the law. And last time these points came to the agenda, we didn't have the government's opinion that it was enough to talk about the seriousness of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that wasn't practically able to give an opinion on one of the biggest public enterprises in the Republic of Croatia, and even today, when we got the opinion, we need a special interpreter to discuss whether it's a positive or negative opinion on business because it's simply not written in the Government's opinion. I also remind you that the 2011 reports that arrived in the Parliament in April 2012 were made in accordance with the 2010 HRT Act, that the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board had different legal powers and legal responsibilities, unlike these reports, which are now subject to amendments and additions to the HRT Act adopted in July 2012. So, according to this united point, we should discuss reports relating to two legal solutions, at the same time we have 4 views of the Government, one and a half of which are positive, and two of them are negative, and in some ways we should satisfy the need to talk in this Croatian Parliament about HRT, where the principal has received Pharaoh's powers, where we have the cleanups and shifts of editors, where we have a completely chaotic state, where people are prevented from entering through the port, where ratings, where unannounced transfer of the Parliament is being abolished, where the ruling majority is systematically favored, and which ultimately results in the finding of independent reporters without borders which they have said very clearly, that because of political pressure Croatia is falling on a scale of media freedoms. Mr. President of the Parliament, when and by what gesture did this High House form this item of the agenda that is listed and which you today announced as the first to debate? In what way and in what way did the magic tricks put this point in this form, what is it and where did two points of the consolidated agenda of 13 December 2013 go? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64162	Your Honor, I will answer all questions like this, and it is my duty to answer you. This House therefore Croatian Parliament at the beginning of the 12th session, this session, has established the agenda. In the agenda, these are the items of the agenda as it is now proposed to be discussed. There were no comments on such a established agenda. This agenda is in line with the Rules of Procedure, adopted by the Croatian Parliament. We respected that decision. As for the government's position, the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, does not affect the establishment of the agenda. You will be given the opportunity to discuss this when the metrics are discussed. As for the standard, even at this session, we had a discussion about reports in two years. For example, these reports were about islands, so we haven’t changed anything about the standard of setting the agenda. And now I pray to the respected Branko Vuksic on behalf of the Croatian Labourists. ... No more, now it's over. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64163	I'd like to ask you nicely because this simply doesn't fit the facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64164	You can't beg, I'm done. Your Honor, you can look for something later, and now we've finished this topic and your position at the club. ... You can't, I'm sorry, but you can't discuss the Rules of Procedure with the President of the Parliament. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64165	But you as president of the Croatian Parliament, in your explanation, had to use facts from the acts adopted by this High House. So we're this...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64166	I'm sorry, but I didn't give you my word and don't use... Then let's keep working. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You're looking for other options in the Rules of Procedure. You have when we're done again you can look for a break in the debate on the agenda point, but not now.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64167	Mr. President, but it's not in our best interest. It is in our interest that this Parliament works by the acts that we adopt, and unfortunately we do not. I told the Parliament Presidency before the start of the spring session that the HDZ club would not accept a united debate on HRT. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64168	Dear colleague, you know you've been in politics for a long time, and you've been a representative, you've had the right and obligation to write a complaint on the agenda if it doesn't suit you. Secondly, if my argument is not correct or do not agree with it, please use the Rules of Procedure, but do not abuse the Rules of Procedure... Yes, yes, of course, it's a practice, it's not a controversial practice at all. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, please, let's get back to work. ... We can't do this anymore. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I can't let you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's not a matter of guessing here. Excuse me, counselor, I'm taking your word. I can't let you use a pay phone whenever you want. I'm running a session here for the time being. Then please allow it. ... Please allow the representative of the Croatian Labourists to continue. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64169	... What's the most controversial in this first item of the agenda? [[Specially enabled.]] We're discussing HRT with three years away, we're discussing HRT on what happened in 2011. What my colleagues from HDZ are looking for is quite logically normal from their point of view, but it is illogical for Croatian citizens to now discuss what happened three years ago, and today, on HRT, things are happening that should be discussed here in the Croatian Parliament for three days. I believe that HRT, I have said it several times, is why my colleagues asked me why this claim, along with the CNB, is the most significant institution in Croatia. Whoever rules the information, rules the world or this little Croatia. HRT is also a prominent institution, it is funded by Croatian citizens and that for three years the Croatian Parliament does not discuss HRT despite the fact that every day there are several incidents, from those programming to those corrupting to human beings, I do not think we should allow this luxury. Practices to skip individual years and skip individual reports have also shown on the State's Attorney's Office's report. In 2013, we did not discuss the work of the State Attorney's Office, so we took a one-year break and we did so in 2014, and there was no reason, as there was no reason to discuss HRT in 2012, 2012 and so on year after year. Instead, even when the Kukuriku coalition came to power, it did not respond in time. Let's say for the council's request, the former council has been programming how to replace the new chairman of the Media Committee. It didn't react then either. And when Mr. Mesic said that they favored themselves by ruling, I must only conclude and later I will have opportunities and as chairman of the board to speak on behalf of the club and individually, nothing has changed on HRT. The HRT has always favored the only rule. That's how it was at HDZ time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64170	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB club, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64171	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. While the media is also electronic, and we count both television and commercial but also HTV, they write extensively about the blatant consumption of this Croatian government in the amount of about 300 million kunas by purchase of 1500 cars. While some ministers want to ride a carriage, we are discussing the 2011 Croatian Television Report. So, with three years away. Even that year, the year is the last year so the HDZ government and its coalition partners. And it's been two years since the government, the status when the Kukuriku coalition came to power. And now we're going to talk about 2011. It's completely incoherent, and even funny. It is true that the Parliament is obliged to discuss the Annual Report of Croatian Television for each year. But it's completely unsettled that in 2014, we're considering 2011, so it might be a good idea for HDZ to maybe skip that year, go to 2012. And in the debate that will follow, there will certainly be events and events that took place in 2013 as well. Because the work of Croatian television and radio is comprehensive, it has been continued principally since Kukuriku coalition is in power where in fact Croatian television or far-sighted as someone says, and far-reaching is in the sense that someone thinks that this Kukuriku coalition will remain in power for a long and long time. In that sense, they also tried to change the consciousness of the Croatian people, its historical thinking, its tradition. I'm only going to give some examples that I was going to point out in the debate, but I'm going to say them now. So, starting with the comments of the juicy Mr. Sprajc, and then from showing up in Mr. Ostojić's car when the doctor's strike showed the film, the new film "Vegetarian Man-eating Man-eating", and then the film "Beyungunac" where doctors, so doctors and overall medical care in the world, were struck, but in the Republic of Croatia. So, it is a media gulag liberal-Communist and such gulag should have given him an opinion here at the Croatian Assembly, here in the debate of Croatian representatives, not like this to delay from year to year, and then we have a bunch of proposals, reports, etc., the Supervisory Board, the Programme Council, Croatian Television, etc. However, given that the President of the Parliament has explained and that we may have missed that optimal teaming to object all together here, and this happened we will also discuss these points, all human and corruption problems, about suicides on Croatian television that took place last year. So, suicide. It was talked about one day and kept quiet, but it's not the time to keep quiet. It's time to change this gulag communist-liberal into something else, and also to change the government itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64172	Thank you, too. You have received those acts from authorised applicants, so you have also received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The discussion on materials was conducted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You've received reports from these working bodies. Do they want... Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64173	On behalf of the HDZ club, I am looking for a break because of how this session is conducted so that the Croatian Democratic Community club will take a stand that it will continue to participate in the debate in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you. Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64174	I'd like you to discuss how to conduct the session. Here's 10 minutes. At 10.20. It's 10:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 10.20 HOURS]] Dear Representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64176	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. President, we were looking for this break because the HDZ Club voted for you. He voted for you as the first among the equals, as someone in whom we trust to lead the meetings of the Croatian Parliament in the best possible way and respect the joys of parliamentaryism. We also voted for you as a person in charge of order in the House of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Croatian Parliament services have prepared a stenogram of the first session in this year, where you have precisely listed 8 new points that are included in the agenda. In these 8 points, there are no Reports of the Supervisory Board of the HRT for 2012, no Business Report and no Report of the Programme Council for 2013. They don't exist. That's one thing. The second thing, where did the 42nd and 43rd points of the consolidated agenda of 13 December 2013, who removed them from the agenda when and what procedure in this House of Commons? So much for procedure and respecting certain things. When you tell us, Mr. President, that we can make a complaint, that we can write, I'll remind you, Mr. President, of a July case that we see as repeating doesn't seem random. When we wrote on behalf of the HDZ Club on July 05th and objected that when the vote was not adequately established quorum in the assembly, you replied on July 16th that you had found that everything was fine, we did not want to place this burden of responsibility on you because perhaps you could not count any MPs, we asked you on July 18th to form a committee of all parliamentary parties that would, through video and phonogram, determine whether there was indeed a quorum or no quorum. To this day, the Honorable President has not answered us. To whom should we write and what should we do when situations like this happen in the Croatian Parliament, and not with the desire to do anything else but adequately discuss it, Mr. President? You will agree, probably all colleagues and colleagues, that HRT deserves to discuss in real time when problems are being solved, not that we are now discussing reports from 2011 which are taking place a year and a half on the agenda, and then new points are added to that in order for the situation to be masked and made out of the cabbage report, rather than an adequate proposed document on which this Croatian Parliament should take a position. One of the biggest public enterprises in the Republic of Croatia that the government is not sure about is bringing a positive or negative opinion. Mr. President, that's something we need to discuss very seriously. If there are no points in the stenogram that I have listed as being included in the agenda, then they should be classified as special points and there should also be a stenogram that is somewhere missing in the 42nd and 43rd of the joint voting agenda of the 10th session of the Croatian Parliament of December 2013. And one more thing. If we are going to follow your advice that we write as we wrote in July to determine the quorum wanting to improve the work of this High House, then we ask you nicely to at least answer us if you can't accept our proposals that together all parliamentary parties and their representatives determine whether there was a quorum in the assembly or there was no quorum.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64177	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Thank you for voting for me. I think it's okay that you voted, and I think it's okay that I run the session, not adapting to those who voted for me, but to what it says in the Rules of Procedure. That's one thing. The second thing about letters about the quorum is that you know how to do it, you're a very experienced club, you've run the country for four terms, and if I could now be able to go through the records and determine the standards that you've introduced into this House, then I could conclude that the problem is that you can't learn that you're in opposition, so you can't always create your own interest. Third thing I want to say. When you refer to a stenogram, this stenogram says that the call for the session proposed the agenda and that there was no objection on that agenda, so the agenda is considered adopted. Your Honor, I would also like to, and I have checked this out, your mandate has ended, and that there are 40 agendas left, and 20 of them and some reports, so we should respect the facts of what they were for the sake of correctness between us. Of course no one here represents that it is good to have a two-year-old Croatian Assembly report and when responsibility changes during that time. That's the 2012-2011 report. But that's why we united the debate because HRT's problems and otherwise the continuity of HRT is important for seeing things as a whole. And on that complex agenda point, there was no written in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Objection, and I think it is clear for you and for us and for the Croatian public that this is about something other than the Rules of Procedure. It's okay, I appreciate you using a political pay phone for political speeches, but it's very important that we stick to the facts. Thank you very much. Here's your esteemed representative, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64179	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the Croatian Labourist-Stranka Work, I am looking for a 10-minute break regarding the opening of bankruptcy at Mirna company in Rovinj.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64180	Does anyone else want to talk about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64181	Mr. President, on behalf of the IDS Club, I'm also looking for a 15-minute break on the same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64182	Shuker for the same thing? Okay. Damir Cain and Silvano Hrelja. Five clubs asked for a break. I'm taking a break at 10.40. I'll see you again. It's 10:00.28. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.40 HOURS]] Representative clubs have asked for a new break to talk about what may be politically justified, but in practice we are delaying the debate we asked about HRT, about Mirna Rovinj. Croatian Labourists and respected representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64184	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's everything that's been said in this High House is important, but I think it's important what happened to the fish factory in Rovinj, that is, with Mirna. The advance in the factory in Mirna lasted 210 days or 7 months. 13.2. Over Mirna, bankruptcy was opened for one simple reason why the Ministry of Finance did not accept, i.e. it refused the financial restructuring plan. It is saddened that in all these 7 months, the Ministry of Finance did not consider it necessary to respond to the proceedings previously held, to sit down with the people at the table and to agree with more than 250 employees at the factory, which with more than 50 fishermen especially from Istria who operate with the factory in Rovinj and how and how to save production. This Rovinj factory case best shows all the absurdity of pre-fashion settlements and what pre-fashion deals are for and for what we need. For a long time, we have been warning that the point of pre-departure settlements is not what it was presented when the Pre-departure Deals Act was passed, which we have all supported in good faith and in good conviction that these pre-departure settlements will help all the businessmen who have found themselves in trouble. Three days before the hearing at the Ministry of Labour was a meeting with representatives of Mirna, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance, the Contracting Council, and three days before the hearing, it was agreed that the problems in the pre-accession settlement would be resolved with Mirna. On the very day of the pre-fashion settlement, the Ministry of Finance does not accept the financial restructuring plan. And what concerns me most personally is that at the beginning of this 12th session here, we were witnessing that a colleague of Sponza as mayor of Rovinj, Linic, asked the very question of pre-departure settlements, and now that, with a few days away, we realize that the answer of Minister Linic to the question was false because he said that in a pre-departmental settlement if there was a financial restructuring plan such as was proposed that the Ministry of Finance could not accept it because all the creditors were given better conditions than it would allow the Ministry of Finance, which is not true. So the Management and Crisis Management of Mirna, who did his job perfectly, proposed in his Financial Plan to restructure the same and transparent conditions for all. The question arises as to why we are extremely concerned in pre-determined settlements to forgive the debts of service activities, to forgive the debts of certain individuals, and not to use pre-fashion settlements for what we said we were bringing them in, which is to preserve each job and to help in particular production. We are witnessing that something else is going on, and I think we all need to talk loudly about it, and that finally it's time for everyone who is forgiven in a pre-fashion deal to make public announcements that we all know who's being favored, why and why. It would be best if the hearing held on the pre-departure settlement for Mirna was annulled, that a new hearing be held and that the bankruptcy which was opened for Mirna itself and that once again everyone agreed to keep all jobs and keep the factory that is here very successfully working and that more than 70% of its products are exported to the foreign market. That would be the goal, it's a good message that we really want to save the economy in pre-fashion deals. If she stays the way she is now, I think we're all gonna be witnesses that pretense settlements are just for someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64185	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. It's up to the IDS club and the independent representatives of Furia Radina. Honorable representative Giovanni Sponza on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64186	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's what we just had a chance to hear, five days ago, no deal was reached Thursday in the pre-profit settlement process, which actually makes the agony of the Mirna factory more uncertain and making the fate of workers, co-operatives and all of their family members even more uncertain. Since I am the mayor of the town of Rovinj and as far as the Serbian factory Mirna is concerned, there are certainly those who expect me to call someone from this pay phone too. In these few previous days, even this occasion, I won't do it for a few basic reasons. First, because the problem of Mirne did not arise yesterday, it was actually the moment someone decided and unfortunately did over the Peaceful Conversion and privatisation in Croatian. Secondly, because I am convinced that citizens are really full of political bickering without concrete results. Third, you need to know that 17 administrations have changed in Mirna and you need to know that not all of them, but that a good part of the administration used financial engineering as a foundation that only sucked money out of Mirna. And as a fourth and in fact, what I hold most important is that he should be responsible for workers, cooperatives and all their family members. Given that today in Croatia the biggest problem is unemployment, and today 250 people work in Mirna and 350 co-operatives are directly connected to Mirna. Given that today is one of the major problems in Croatia, there is a lack of industrial production, and that the Mirna factory for 135 years without interruption is part of the fish-processing industry then I am convinced that indeed no one in Croatia and all those who decide on it must be no matter what fate the Republic of Mirna will be tomorrow. I see the solution at the table, I see the solution in the dialogue and open cards and sincere intentions where all those key stakeholders must come to a common agreement and solution. For a joint table, representatives of workers, representatives of the city, representatives of the county and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia must sit down with one goal only to save Mirna, to continue to work, to produce, to sell and to finally move towards the path of healing, which tomorrow means growth and development. If today the state level, the regional level and the local level of the executive authority were to give ourselves the task of opening a new factory, hiring 250 people to tie them to this business of another 300 cooperatives, then we must think about their members of the family, that this may be a rough but picturesque expression that it is 1500 mouths, that we give ourselves the task of opening a new factory to deal with production, to find the market, to ensure that all products are sold, that they are charged. I think it would be Sisif's job then. So what's alive is worth making an effort to save it then. I have spoken as mayor of Rovinj countless times, and I also want to say it for the first time. I'm telling everyone in Rovinj that we're fed up with all those who see Mirne as a business of renting and real estate. Mirna is located in an important strategic area of our city, in the northern part of the city, along with an aquarium that offers development programs and projects, so we, as Parliamentarians, must also think about not being involved to get someone inside tomorrow and actually base our business on real estate business. We've had enough of this in Rovinj, it won't go away and I'm very clearly ordering them fingers away and bye-bye from Mirna. The Istrians are pitomous, the Istrians are calm, but we're full of it all. If someone comes in with such intentions, let him think very carefully, for then we show another miracle and another nature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64187	Thank you, Your Honor. The Croatian Democratic Community Club and Honored Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64188	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. So when you read the indicators that Mirna raised the production daily to 200000 cans or per year to 22.7 million cans and that 75% of it exports, employs 254 people and that over 400 cooperatives depend on that company to ask one elemental question is whether it's precisely why the Pre-price settlement Act was passed. If you look at these indicators then that was why we all voted for the law in our first reading. But we didn't vote for those 40 changes in articles that happened a week after that. And these 40 changes of articles have just led to someone saying that despite these indicators at times when Croatia has 380000 unemployed and at times when the structure of the Croatian economy is all but production we simply didn't make an effort to save one production company that is by all indicators, only if someone believes that these indicators are not correct let them publicly say that they are not accurate. However, there is something else between colleagues and colleagues. Back in 2008, in 2009, looking at things like this, who's connected, who's tied to who, how you can't trace it, the Law on Personal Identification Number was passed for a simple reason when you type in an OIB of a company then you see the beauty of all those who are both natural and legal persons who are tied to that company. I honestly don't understand why this project is concerned, because if Mirna Rovinj and its owners or those who participated earlier were involved, it would be quick to discover the leprechaun and see if the beauty had positive or negative intentions. Because it doesn't make sense, so I'm based on these indicators and when you're listening to the Ministry of Finance's explanation that the pre-fashion settlement was rejected. If the Ministry of Finance felt that strategic partners were not the ones who instilled trust or did not bring in a bank guarantee, then I think these were arguments that the Government, with its claims and with a business bank that is practically owned by the Republic of Croatia, would vote in advance to guarantee the survival of this company. And then these problems can be solved further. However, two questions are key. Who led to this? And that's what I was talking about when I said something about the OIB. And the other thing that's in the interest of bankruptcy? Who is in the interest of bankruptcy, because bankruptcy may have been far more devastating for the Croatian economy in the past 23 years than conversion and privatisation. Companies that, with some restructuring, had certain adjustments to the emerging situation were missing in bankruptcy. But apparently the one who started the bankruptcy was only interested in the small details of whether it was some kind of machine or some real estate, and no one cared why thousands of jobs were gone. And now maybe it's time to say that this story simply can't go through anymore and someone can't push one company that, by all indications, if these indicators didn't come to let it go publicly, has hope for survival especially in Croatia at times when we don't have any practical production. Whether building a marina on land to the marina makes you see the same name is only a diametrically opposed economic activity the reason someone is pushing someone into bankruptcy. Could Mirna have been an opportunity to round up a part of the food production in the Republic of Croatia, perhaps in such a way, if Mirna was an example of many who fill the shelves of trade chains in the Republic of Croatia and Mirno find meters or two spaces in each trade chain and are sold in the Republic of Croatia, because if foreigners buy 75%, then the same foreigners will when they come to summer in Croatia look for the same product. So, a series of questions, however, is a key story of who brought this, type in the OIB, join the High Court of Commerce, and you'll see a high connection between these or those and see what their interests are, but I'm saying, I'm asking myself a question of who was in the interest of stopping the OIB project and keeping it on some kind of a semi-primely developed level. Why hasn't he developed to the end and who's in the interest of simply seeing that property blood painting in the Republic of Croatia, so let's see who these players have been playing under the counter for years, who have been destroying companies like this and opening up new companies for years. People play the game, they start basketball, they end up with a handball, and in the extension they play football, and then usually someone gets shot by bones and heads and unfortunately Croatian citizens lose their jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64189	Thank you, Your Honor. It is the Club of Independent Representatives and Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64190	Honorable President, gentlemen of the Parliament. That Mirna can't stop because there's no reason for her to stop. Someone had already said there are 254 workers there are 140 years of tradition, these are attractive land, there are about 400 cooperatives, exports at this time 70 or 75% of those 200 thousand skets that are daily in that factory processed or produced. They're on today's liquidity day, which will be with the insolvency, it can be discussed but also according to the competent ministry they owe about 40 million kuna. More specifically, they have one fantastic position, a better position than Mirna in Rovinj probably at this point only has a general hospital with which certain strange situations occur or where the DORH against certain persons raises certain criminal charges. The fact is also that before the European elections, someone, a former mayor offered to a university professor that general hospital, it managed to stop, he refused, and I think a similar situation when it comes to real estate must not be applied to Mirna. The fact is also that Mirna refused a strategic partner or rather rejected this Podravka. Once again, I will say that Mirna must survive this period because she can simply live. Whoever put Mirna in a position to owe the state more than 40 million kuna, but they owed others, so they ended up here in these pre-determinations, whether the write-off of the claim should be for a Peace form like for maybe some other companies in the Republic, whether that, on that combination, accounts for some media and commercial houses in Istria itself, it would be best if someone came from the government and explained this situation to us. Istria like everyone in Croatia has a lot of problems, we have 13,000 unemployed on today of 380 thousand as many as in Croatia. I'll say only one piece of information that in 2002, Istra was 18% or had 18% more gross social product than the Primorje-Gorski County, two years ago that gross product was only 4% higher, today below 2%. What's going on, who's responsible? It would also be better if the local government had allocated 10 million kuna to the media by corrupting newspapers, radio shows, television, to allocate the money for the recovery of economic operators in Istria as it would be more fair that the state would not buy those 1600 cars for 270 million kuna and invest those funds in the Croatian economy. If their Audis were good so far, they can be good as of now. We must bear in mind the fact that Croatia has lost 74 865 jobs in the last three months. Istria has lost 3,000 jobs in the last three months, with these 250 in Mirna it can be over 3200 or 500. Croatia lost in the last three months 4741 trades. About 300 boards closed in Istria during that period, pardoning these crafts. I remember at the end of the '90s, and on several occasions, even after 2000, I started a certain investigation committee for Mirna, why? It's just doing this situation where the 17th administration changed and where it was simple or it went the way it went. I agree, as my colleague said, that all pre-departure settlements are announced, we have succeeded through them indifference, the economy from 45 billion kuna to 32 billion kuna, but on the other hand we have 300 thousand citizens with blocked accounts that exceed 26 billion kuna. If someone was sucking money out of Mirna, which is where the DORH is. We had a case of an immune centre that avoided bankruptcy in Zagreb and could also be dealt with by Mirna. Podravka reported, I don't know if Podravka as one of the biggest companies in Croatia is the best solution for Mirna, but it should be discussed for sure. And instead of cars and media, invest in the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64191	Thank you very much. HSU and Honorable Representative Silvano Hrelja on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64192	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. We're talking about a 70 thousand square-square section of the ruby coast that takes over Mirna Rovinj, a beautiful cove where in a month there will be a world event called Red Bull, so I'm inviting you, as I assume the mayor, to come to Rovinj and see it all. ... Planes, yes, Red Bull, planes. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay, planes. Something I'm going to say today is not like the MPs, or at least it's not common for parliamentary deputies to speak from this pay phone, and it's a matter of fact that this situation in Mirni Rovinj is today going to the High Court of Commerce. In 2002, a bankruptcy procedure was opened over Mirna, which lasted 6 months because Mirna d.d. was in bankruptcy, and it was neat until then, and then Mirna did business through a daughter's company, which is justified for keeping her jobs, but it is not justified that one situation is not resolved. So, after six months when the bankruptcy manager, and we had a bankruptcy manager of an excellent man, a man who began to dispute demand and began to solve what his colleague Giovanni was talking about, which is financial engineering in Mirna. After the start of such attempts, after 6 months of open bankruptcy proceedings, the High Commercial Court decided to suspend bankruptcy and everything continued as usual. It's all going back to the way it was. Of course, afterwards, the government did not restart the procedure either coalition or HDZ because all the elements of the bankruptcy process were in place all the time, and now this time has come to try to resolve this by pre-profit settlement because, of course, the state and the biggest believer, because throughout all these years, it has been acquired and, of course, it is worth more than 250 jobs and a continuation of production, and that is the only justification for the strategic partner who will continue production, everything else is the continuation of the real-estate business story. Even at the time of Valentiæ's government in this port where the hospital, the small town and the Slovenian resort and the train station Mirna were dreamt of the largest marina on the Mediterranean. These 70 thousand squares are worth at least 200 euros per square, at least. So you know what it's about. I suggest everyone in Croatia to leave the government calm as a trademark for Rovinj, the oldest factory Rovinj to do what it knows best, to agree with the town of Rovinj and with the workers on possible transfer and to find the desired solutions. I'm sure this marina is no longer possible, the times have changed, the times of megalomanic projects have passed, but in one tradition, that someone's doing real-estate business is inadmissible. It is inadmissible and I think Mirna should at this point get that company whose food production is core bussines and that everything else should be left with time and conversation between employees, between the new administration and between the city and looking for the desired solutions. Once again, we had a chance 12 years ago to solve the problem correctly, we didn't solve it, and this is what it looks like when the problems are put under the carpet. All of this I said can be verified because the argument to put Mirna in bankruptcy in 2002 exists and believe that there was no valid reason for the High Commercial Court to annul the decision on bankruptcy, i.e. bankruptcy proceedings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64193	Thank you. Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have completed the problem of probleming the acute social economic issue of the bankruptcy of a factory, but not all MPs have been in an equal position. So some have information, and some have no information. Just a little bit to finish why I'm saying it. It is a practice of the Croatian Parliament and we can continue it, but the possibility of the topic being problemed in the Assembly is foreseen by the Rules of Procedure or the parliamentary question or the proposal for a agenda point. In a situation like this, those responsible or in whose part the resolution of this issue was not in a position to manifest themselves. Not saying who's right, or what's right would just be a lot more serious if we asked those in whose business this is. So I ask those who have initiated this may, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, ask for it. We're done with this subject. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] Let's hear the club List of Independent Representatives and Honorable Representative Damir Caine, the reasons for the break.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64195	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. We have before us a second half around Mirna and Istrians, first of all they but also the Croatian public after yesterday must hear the truth. Calm can't stop or stop. 140 years of tradition, 243 workers there,...cooperatives, started exporting. According to the state, they owe almost 40 million kuna, it's about the equivalent of 20,000 pensions or as much as my Buzet gets in a year. What's going on? I'm claiming a replacement of thesis. It goes with the thesis that someone wants our property, and the truth is that individuals from the FIMA group want it and that the state write off 60% of these 40 million kunas and that it is later a form for some media houses and shops in Istria. Who is this famous FIMA group? First of all, to say that they have some Pluris and Valibus in bankruptcy, so they have Mills, that's the milkmaker in Split in bankruptcy, so Mirna is in bankruptcy, and Genesa from the Pleternica hotels in advance, so Hotele Vis in advance and Helios Faros d.d. in the Old Town at sea, also in bankruptcy. Well, then let's just keep it simple. In the event of bankruptcy, the previous owner will be the highest loser, and the head of the administration of Sasa Krobota, former director of Genesis, who has forced Genez's takeover of Mirna in co-operation with the city of Rovinj, against the will of the state as a key believer and according to the plan passed by the law, will replace the bankruptcy administration. I claim bankruptcy is absurd for everyone. Why? Because Mirna has a strategic partner above all in Podravka. So the interest in Mirna was first shown by Podravka, not only because it credited FIMA Group in its own time with 80.6 million kuna, which is why it has entered the right to 54% of Mirna shares, but also because of the fact that last year they tried to arrange business co-operation with the lease of production capacities. The sub-level is a year, I didn't even know it myself, with 3,000 tons of the largest exporter of sketelets of fish or those processed under the brand Eva. They don't have their own facilities, but they contract production through service so last year through a tender for 2,000 tonnes they tried to negotiate cooperation through which Mirna could further fill the capacities, increase employment, boost business etc., etc. Now let's move on to what that pretense deal should look like. Genessa's management in cooperation with the administration has devised a brilliant reconstruction and reconstruction plan and handed it over to FIMA eight days before the deadline in a way that the state forgives 60% of the debt and that they invest 3.5 million kuna in the next year and enter into the underlying capital 4.6 million kuna claims. In fact, the 3.5 million kuna should have been the capitalisation of Mirna’s own resources. The plan also stated that Mirni urgently needed 11.5 million kuna investments in order to be able to export to the European Union market with the necessary care to move production. So they stay empty, they move production somewhere else, real estate is worth 30, 40, maybe more millions simply euros. Of course, the story is extremely long, the story is extremely complex, but I will also say that the Istrians are full of the touch of the local mafia, which, with the control of local media, rob Istria wide and long. A year ago, the attempt was similar to that of Dr. Horvat's general hospital in Rovinj, which was too big a bite for them, and now they're biting for Mirna, but no matter what, I don't think the production is going to ruin. This is a job for the DORH, co-operatives need to be together, they need to save jobs, and I want to believe in the fair intentions of all those who tried to protect the 140th annual substrate of one company that launched the industrial reconstruction of Istria.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64196	Thank you very much. And now it's the Croatian Labour Club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64197	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, first of all, fellow Caine, I don't think there's a day in this House that you don't call the Istrian mob and call the Istrian citizens, so we do some drugs, and then we blow up a little bit, so we steal a little bit. I would really ask you in the interest of Istrian citizens and in the interest of all of this you have now spoken here for this pay phone, if you have knowledge of this local mafia which has obviously grown so much in two years that it no longer sees its end, that you report all these mafiososes to those you believe should be reported and that you ultimately fight as a parliamentary representative for those mobsters to be shut down and punished. As for Mirna Rovinj, I agree with you when you say that production in Mirna Rovinj should be preserved, that the jobs of 250 workers and all those co-operatives living from Mirna Rovinj should be preserved, but I also argue that, as far as predestination is concerned, the criteria for all in this country are not the same, and I think that, primarily, as a parliamentary representative, it should be concerned that finally in the implementation of one law, in this case, the Pre-department Act is established and that the criteria for the implementation of pre-departure settlements, who has the right to enter into pre-departure agreements, and in which way these pre-party deals are rejected or ultimately allowed to be executed. In the case of Mirna Rovinj, we are witnessing that the criteria are not the same, that we obviously do not care about production for what we swear. We now have an announcement here and a strategy of production activities and in this context we are closing 250 jobs or we do not consider it necessary that we should as a state and as the greatest believer, not a believer or seek the state of all 47 million kunas as you have said, looking less. It's all in the financial restructuring plan. Now you've read what was written in a daily list yesterday or the day before yesterday, I don't know when anymore. Give yourself a little effort, look at the plan to restructure Mirna, you have on the pages of FINA extremely nicely complex. It's not true that only the state is asked to write down 60%, it's asked of all the believers the same. You're looking for a reprogramme in five years and what with a year starts and what I agree with you is just the following. Mirna needs to stay working, production needs to be preserved in Rovinj, and everyone, but everyone and the local community, and we here in the Parliament and the Government and the Ministry must make every effort to agree on how we will manage to keep it. Everything else beyond that is just empty and empty stories that don't lead to any results. You're talking about Podravka as a strategic partner, on the other hand in this Podravka and our country has certain conditions. I'm just wondering if someone from the Ministry of Finance who's looking for so many millions from the base of the debt of Mirna sat down at the table and said we have to do so, so we'd keep 250 jobs. Or that someone who's asking for so many millions from Mirna simply said you didn't accept certain things, we disagree and Mirna goes bankrupt. So these are these different criteria that we simply can't swallow in these pre-determined settlements and that don't lead to anything good anymore. Because we come to a situation where one daily newspaper forgives millions and millions of kunas, then we don't have a problem with forgiving someone 9 or 10 million kunas. But at the same time, we have a problem with a production factory that works and hires people to forgive as many millions of kunas and the simple question that we ask in the end is why and why. There's a guilty person to look for, and a simple answer to the question why is someone forgiven and others not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64198	Thank you, too. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64199	First Mrs. Tyrelly insults me, so I said bankruptcy is absurd. For two years you laughed at me about drugs, so the entire Department of Combating Dependence of the County of Istria was arrested. Does anyone have the right without one kuna to take over 50 million euros? [[The Intruder President: Your Honor.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64200	Do not lose sight of that you are in front of the Croatian public and appear on behalf of your citizens, not on your own behalf and protect their rights, so do not abuse the Rules of Procedure to argue here about your own views. That's not what I'd say in the spirit of business. This is in the spirit of the practice of the Croatian Parliament. Yeah, he's not hurt by any Rules of Procedure I've already said that. I consider this a one-sided approach to the day-to-day problem. Friends who are not familiar, who should be introduced because they speak in front of them and they have to keep quiet about it because they do not know, and neither do other participants in, or interested legal persons, and the state has no view of it. I ask my colleagues, despite the fact that Dalić did not speak on behalf of the club, that they use their representation rights in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and ask for a debate on a daily subject such as this one or someone else. It will confirm its credibility, not an alibi, political debate. I ask that we stick to it, so I expect that Mirni Rovinj will come from either a club or an individual representative to get answers from state institutions about what is going on. Excuse me. Dear representative Martina Dalic on behalf of the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64201	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. So here we have today had the opportunity to read in the daily newspaper that the finance minister is commenting on the situation and resolving the pre-fashion settlement in the case of Mirna said that the Act on Pre-price settlement is on the trail and that we are trying to save jobs and that some other European countries are also going along with it. However, what shows so clearly the Mirna Rovinj case is that, in fact, this statement by the minister who continues to assure us that the aim of this law is to save jobs, unfortunately, is not true. And unfortunately, in the implementation of this law, his spirit was lost and the goal that the lawmaker here explained and interpreted when we passed the law was lost. And that's exactly what the bill promoter then interpreted as saving jobs. Unfortunately, Mirna shows that the legislator does not manage the criteria of jobs in law enforcement, that neither is managed nor produced activities, that neither is managed nor produced which is so often and so enjoyed in our public and public space. I therefore think that just the conclusion and refusal of a pre-fashion settlement for Mirna on the same day when a pre-departure settlement for one media house is adopted shows once again that the application of the Pre-departure settlement law is not good, that it is not good and that this law requires and the whole process requires profound changes, deep changes before even greater damage arises, because we believe that the damages from the implementation of the law on pre-departure settlement have already occurred and this is a major one. My colleagues, if I could maybe concentrate on a speech on behalf of the HDZ Club, I'd be delighted. The damages caused by this law are in fact in countless jobs lost precisely in small and medium-sized enterprises. What we don't see and what we don't see in the first wave when the Ministry of Finance says that through pre-profit settlements, we don't see how many jobs have been lost in small businesses that have lost their demand in pre-profit deals, from small creditors who have been placed in the same basket in this process, in the same position with large and subordinated because they simply had to follow the big faiths and certainly what we see, what we learn from small entrepreneurs is that in this segment of the Pre-departmental Deal Act has caused a huge loss of jobs and we hold and always repeat that small and medium-sized businesses are the backbones of the Croatian economy. Second, we also see that the provisions of the Law on Pre-demand settlement are deliberately misused. The process was deliberately brought into the process by companies that had recently been liquid and solvent. The government cannot close its eyes in front of such phenomena and we therefore consider that we are repeating the Act on the Pre-demand settlement of the request for a profound change, requiring the pre-departure settlement process to be forwarded and implemented before the court. What is certain in its implementation is not good and what in the original version of the law adopted by this House did not write, and that the whole process will be completely out of judicial control and out of the control of the relevant judicial institutions. Therefore, as Mr. President of the Parliament has noted very well, we suggest in the context of the events in Mirna that in the Croatian Parliament we conduct a detailed and extensive debate on the consequences, on the results of the law on pre-negotiation settlement, and we suggest that the amendments to this law that will prevent further damage to the Croatian economy and further doubt that, in fact, in the context of the Pre-department Law take place, so to express suspicious arrangements, suspicious settlements that have elements of corrupt activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64202	Thank you very much. Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament. We continue with the plenary session of the 12th session of the Croatian Parliament with the agenda already established and published on the agenda last Friday. Before we move on to the debate, I can see my hands in the air. Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64204	Well, Mr. President, in agreement with the president of the club Don Grubisic, I would like to request a few minutes off so that you can only refer to the new circumstances for you, Mr. Mirna or Arena, a tripartage from Pula. Damn it, as we all know, Mirna and Arena is what should be their advantage and this is the location of the property by the sea, the greedy management of the damage clearly from one side of the workers and from the other side of the people.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64205	Honorable representative of Hope Turin. Also, that labour law. Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64206	I'm looking for a break on the subject of Mr. Caine.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64207	We will now move on to the presentation of the position of club representatives who have sought a break for the situation in "Peaceful" Rovinj for the third time. Let's get this straight. Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64208	Honorable President, Minister, MPs. Why not? As far as I'm concerned, it's possible to extend this law. But only the first line around Arena down from Pula. With Arena Istria losing probably another symbol, another company with which it is recognized, with which it is identified far more than with truffles because I don't know who can afford it today or who could afford it yesterday or with some imaginary Brijuni Riviera project that will be nothing. The curse of both Arena and Mirna, these old Istrian companies, the company of symbols is what should be their advantage and this is primarily accommodation and I will say the value of their properties. Well, let's take it in a row. In the case of "Peaceful" some say there was supposed to be a robbery of the century. And it's not an accident, DORH, in "Peaceful" today. Clearly "Peaceful" with something above 250 workers needs to continue production and I don't think that's questionable. But I'm also going to say that, if one Plomin or one and two can function by the sea, I guess that should be "Palamine" What happened then, we're going in kind of order. Mirna d.d. She's in a blockade and she needs to go bankrupt. But he's got a daughter company, a still fishing over which pay goes, fees to cooperatives and other fees. Mirna d.d. He owes the state about 40 million kuna, Podravka has a right to over 54% of Mirna, etc., but Mirna there is a curse that has worth 30 and more million euros and that's the point. She was still in trouble, and I admit it. He comes two years ago from Pleternica, whose only member is important and the director of Ms. Valentina Ljubesic. According to no one, I have nothing, and we have to admit that Genesis has raised Mirna's income from $51.4 million to $66.2 million in 2013. But for that, Genesis is very well paid. In 2012, it was paid 0.57% of its income or 369 thousand kuna and 2013, even 0.83% of its income or 555 thousand kuna, a total of some 919 thousand. So, they're paid, they don't work for nice eyes, but here I see a Varazdin firm FIMU, and that's why I assume the DORH is today in Mirna, it's been little to them and they smell that without swearing to them with the help of local politics de facto can assign the whole of Mirna or that property. And that's where the pre-fashion begins, and that's where the Ministry of Finance comes in. Personally, I consider it right through the premise under the pressure of local politics because no one could imagine that the company would end up in bankruptcy even though with a good bankruptcy plan, that's what we call that restructuring, bankruptcy is not the end, though, but through that premise, Mirna was supposed to get GENEZ i.e. her owner and only director Valentina Ljubesic. That's the essence of the story. I said the dubiosiss of Mirna are 40, 50 million kuna but the property is worth 200 million kuna and they have a buyer, they have a strategic investor, and so on. for real estate and the like. Production was even to be moved to an old, historical Istrian, fishing place from the time of paleolithic or chalk when the sea went to Pazin, Buzet and St. Peter, and that's St. Peter's. Peter in the woods and someone could have put 20 or more million euros in his pocket and joined that group of 280 Croatian millionaires. For the end of Mirna must live but what I want to ask, why would a GENEZA who came to Mirna two years ago, who also helped Mirna have more rights to this company than workers, pensioners, local self-government and so on. That's why my ex-partners are at a rally, and about 30 or 40 of them are out there, making noises that Bruno Poropata and I should be thrown into the sea. But today I'm also telling them that a lot of robbery would be heard from the foybe, enough that nothing can be done in Istria when it comes to real estate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64209	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSU Club in the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64210	Dear Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, it is almost impossible not to connect these two topics for which a break is sought. I'll just say one sentence if you'll let me. The time of crisis is not the time of negotiations and talks, the time of crisis is the time for arrangements to get out of a particular situation and it must be imperative for all participants in social dialogue. There is also a solution for Mirna. I beg you no more, I won't, please, let's not open these topics in front of the clubs anymore because we can harm the company, we can harm the workers who work there. Let them work and the system institutions do their job. What's this about? A pre-demand settlement failed, which is the following steps, FINA should be launched for reasons that existed in 2002. A preliminary procedure is then opened where facts are established and only then will the court decide whether to open a bankruptcy or not. Peaceful Rovinj can work all the time, and I hope no one will remember that I do not know because of what rules or regulations. So let's keep our jobs, let's not do it, dramatize it, people have worked ten years in these conditions, let them work until the court says so. And, of course, real estate business is also a matter of the interest of many because it is an extremely high-quality location. It's also a location but it's not, it's not a grace in the Arena Pula, it's a curse. To be clear, the company that used to be a giant, which employs 7 hundred people, which was known in the former state market, is located in a property of 6 thousand square meters and they need an objective thousand squares. And they did everything to survive. The other ones, let’s say, are sister companies, or companies that have been engaged in the same activity for a long time have not produced, but have not worked for more than 10 years. So, all they did was reduce the number of workers, increase or buy new technologists and solve everything in a way that is worthy of man, in a way that they provided and solved workers through pensions or through severances that of course were never large in textiles. And the owners are former workers, workers and executives in the biggest case, and they tried to sell themselves, sell that huge property, just the sea on the Pula River, and you know what the problem is? When they agreed, then our institutions said what building conditions must achieve on these facilities. Of course, every further story has fallen off and every attempt to replace those 6 thousand squares from some 1,000 in some new location has failed and unfortunately all of this has resulted in 6 months of non-reimbursement and not receiving wages even though they are truly self-organised, they had their own internal bank, they have closed, they have shops in Croatia, etc., they have closed in that section and they have one of the most quality fabrics, except who bought it once, they see it as something more expensive, but it's also very high quality. I am sorry that the state does not find any solution to this quality production, that even the city may not help solve the problem of moving and economic business. So they simply can't deal with their strengths, all of their options are simply exhausted and Arena Pula needs help, but it doesn't need pity, it needs help in every sense to protect this production and to keep working and that this product has room for quality in the Croatian market to continue to have this unique textile manufacturer. I advocate that as little as possible, I say, we open up stories like this because whenever we say something, we can also do damage to one of these companies in getting out of their situation, finding opportunities, it's our duty, but let's remain very correct, let's not judge in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u64211	Thank you very much. Your Honor, this is the third time we've talked about the same topics, I'll repeat my third application. So I call for the parliamentary responsibility not to be used by the political speaker for unilateral evaluations in procedures, whether it be bankruptcy, pre-nuptial settlement or something else, it will not help because things are not seen as a whole but unilaterally, but that is unfortunately the practice of the Croatian Parliament, so calling for responsibility is the only option. Now we're going to cross the established agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70937	We will now, in accordance with the established agenda, move to the debate on - a/ Report on the work of the HRT Programme Council and the implementation of the programme principles and obligations of the HRT Act and the contract referred to in Article 13. Law on HRT; b/ Report on the work of the Croatian Supervisory Board and the Executive Board on the implementation of the supervision of the legality of the work and financial operations of the HRT for the period from 21 February 2011 to 8 May 2012; c/ Report on the operation of the HRT for 2012; d/ Annual Report of the Croatian Programme Council for the period of 19 November 2012 to 31 December 2013; e/ Report on the work of the Supervisory Board on the implementation of the supervision of the legality of the work and financial operations of the HRT in 2012; the debate would be united in order for the clubs to have 20 minutes to discuss the name of the club, and representatives of the applicant 20 minutes for their opening argument. Do the representatives of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament wish to present a report on the subject on the agenda? Yeah. The Committee for Information, Information and Media, respected representative Branko Vuksic, chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70938	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Director of HRT, the President of the Programme Council, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I will only explain very briefly for those who are following the session of the Croatian Assembly what is at all and what are the reports on the agenda. The MPs probably forgot about the two reports we discussed on November 22, 2012, so they're being discussed here today. I don't know who's going to talk about it on behalf of the proposer or HRT. These are reports on the work of the Programme Council and the classic report on the operation of HRT. So the board had those reports at the 22nd November 2012. And we have three more reports that we discussed yesterday at a meeting of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, and that was the first time that in one report there was no decoded position of the Government that we ate the report positively or negatively, we didn't understand from that report. Mostly in that report there are more negativity than positive assessments. The conclusion is not in the end, which is probably not crucial for us assembly representatives. So the 2012 HRT business report was accepted by the majority, 6 votes in favour, 2 votes against. The Annual Report of the HRT Programme Council for the period November 2012 to 31 December 2013 was then adopted with 5 votes for, 3 votes against. And a report on the work of the Supervisory Board is accepted, too, by most votes. So they asked yesterday at a meeting of the supervisory board of colleagues from the HRT to discuss what will be discussed today, they will probably discuss the most about the programme that allows us and the Rules of Procedure, because the report on the work of the Programme Council for 2013 and I think it should be commended to the HRT Programme Council for reacting and giving the report and what that report makes sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70939	Thank you, too. Do the presidents and representatives of other working bodies want to present a report? No, I don't. Does the Proposer's representative want to? Yeah. On behalf of HRT Director Goran Radman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70940	Dear President, honourable representatives of the Croatian Parliament. I thank you for the invitation and the opportunity to address you. You will be presented with the 2012 HRT Business Report. In addition to this report, you have also received an insight into the integral documents of the State Audit for 2012 and the previous period and the report by the Commercial Auditor which is legally required to revise the reports before they are taken to the Croatian Assembly. This has earned all the legal conditions for the report to be delivered to you, and I hope you have had the opportunity to read it, study it, and comment on it. As you can see from the 2012 business year report HRT ended with a loss of slightly less than 29 million kuna. It's not the first year, but six years in a row as HRT dealt with losses. The reasons for creating the loss are structural and regardless of the efforts and attempts of previous administrations to deal with this problem, it is evident that HRT must go through more serious restructuring. In 2012, the reasons for this loss were both on the side of missing revenue and on the side of increased expenditure. The 2012 plan meant or predicted higher revenues based on the tax, an increase in the tax which did not occur, and it was also expected that the trend developed in previous years of the development of the commercial market for advertising in the electronic media would continue in 2012 which also broke down. The regulator also provided for significant restrictions in the time available for advertising on HRT, all allowing for one significant drop in revenue from the commercial activity of the HRT in that segment. On the expenditure side, savings were planned on the basis of labour costs which did not occur, and in 2012 there was a production intensive year, which also brought increased expenditure and eventually caused this loss of less than 29 million kuna to occur in the HRT balance sheet. In 2012, it was generally a very unstable business year for HRT. I remind the Croatian Parliament that during 2012, three administrations, i.e. three members of the directors of HRT, changed at the head of HRT. First of all, the administration under the old law of 2010, then the director-in-chief from July to November and at the end of the year appointed the head director of HRT in the rest of the year. Also, in 2012, it was a year of amendments to the law. In July 2012, the Croatian Parliament adopted amendments to the Croatian Law on HRT which significantly amended the management and control of HRT functions, which also left consequences for the dynamics of management and achievement of the desired production and business objectives. Also in 2012, there was a significant reduction and contraction of the market, especially that part of the market on which HRT depends. In the segment of commercial revenues, commercial advertising incomes dropped dramatically, and as I said, the regulator reduced the use of time for that. However, in 2012 HRT largely fulfilled its programming obligations provided for by a temporary contract between the Government and the HRT and achieved a number of programme production projects that marked the year 2012. I remind you that it was the Olympic year, so the year in which the sports events were carried out intensively at the London Olympics and also the year of the European football championship that brought together a lot of new software content, but also a significant increase in production costs. In 2012, there was also an increase in the number of programming channels. In the meantime HRT+, the television channel for abroad has been transformed into HRT3 and since September 2012 it has continued to broadcast as a specialized programme for culture and education. In December 2012, the 4th TV channel, news, information content, which is still active and functioning, was launched. To sum up briefly, in 2012, it was a very unstable year which has brought its consequences both in business and in the production and programming activities of HRT, confirmed that this home was right when the 2012 HRT Act asked HRT to launch an active restructuring programme that was in the meantime and launched, and in the coming years also consolidated the framework of the programming and regulatory framework which the HRT today meets. Thank you for your attention. I will be available to answer your questions and possibly later to engage in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70941	Thank you very much, well-respected director of HRT. Dear Nina Obuljen Koržinek, president of the HRT Programme Council. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70942	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and MPs. At first, I'd like to say that this report I'm giving on behalf of the HRT Programme Council is actually a temporary report. In accordance with the law, our basic function is to give an opinion on the HRT's report on compliance with contractual obligations. Since such a report has not been submitted in 2012, and no report has yet been submitted for 2013, we have decided to give this House of Commons our provisional report in order to fulfil the legal obligation to report at least once a year, but we expect that with a full report in front of this House we will arrive within 2 or 3 months when HRT submits its report. I would also like to say that since the start of the term of office of this Programme Council, since November 2012, and the Programme Council, as well as the CROMAC, has worked in extremely difficult circumstances, there has been a change of law, very short deadlines for the adoption of very important documents have been left. In the first place, I am referring to the signing of the contract with the Government, the HRT work programme, and in that sense, the Council has given full support to the Director-General and has given a positive opinion on these documents even though it has made a number of remarks. However, we did not want to put HRT in a position to potentially raise the question of the legality and legitimacy of the tax because of the non-contract. We've done our best to make some progress in ensuring the public's work of the Program Council. All our documents for discussion, all the records are published on HRT's website and we think it's important that the public we represent may have insight into what we do because, of course, media reports with the council are not always necessarily a reflection of what was going on there. I would point out that our report is accompanied by a report from the HRT Service Commissioner, which is a very important function. He's like one of the guardians of the viewers and listeners of HRT, so here's my attention to that part of the report. There are some interesting observations and observations. The Programme Council considers that HRT should take more account of those opinions drawn up and collected by the Commissioner. In particular, the report highlighted the question of the achievement of the legal obligations in the CROMAC programmes for the period 2013/2014. A year. You'll see about that we've been discussing, it's actually extended over a few months. And in this regard, we have made some serious remarks that in the way of planning, how on the scope of the documents given to us, and especially the fact that, in fact, for a number of questions that the Programme Council has referred to HRT, we have not received quality answers or have not received any answers at all. So in this context we also reached out to the instrument that has been put at our disposal in the law, which is the written warning of the HRT Programme Council regarding the need to meet certain requirements of the Programme Council, we have attached this written report, the written warning and the HRT response. In its work from the beginning, the Council has determined that it wants to actually discuss certain parts of the contract, that we are not satisfied with the dynamics that HRT is preparing materials for our discussions, but let us hope that this will be improved in the future, and in this context, we have so far been able to consider meeting contractual obligations related to the drama and documentary programme, we have discussed the implementation of Article 11 and in particular the purchase of European parts of independent producers. And in the period after this report, the periods so a few weeks ago we received the first HRT report on HRT archives and team management for us one of the most important resources in the future. Over the next few months, we plan in a similar way to discuss thematically some other issues. As regards the monitoring of compliance with the obligations of the HRT defined by the contract and by the Law of the Programme Council regularly at its meetings, it raises a series of questions concerning very specific examples in our view of respecting or non-compliance with legal and contractual obligations. This is detailed in the Council records that we have attached to the report. I would mention more debates on staff issues, noting that the Programme Council does not have any effect on any appointment on HRT within its work. We can only take them to the knowledge and post-festum about them to give their opinion. So, I'm going to mention that issue once again of quality Council reporting, the question of the evaluation of the new programming scheme. Also, in our records you will see a series of Council praises especially in relation to the third programme of Croatian television and the launch of this specialized programme, but also some other examples of very valuable public content that appear on HRT and which are projected or shown. A number of errors in the functioning of the information media service have been observed. This can partly be linked to frequent staff changes, i.e. one long period, through a series of V.D.s. appointments, i.e. solutions on HRT. However, what I must point out is that the Council sees a serious problem in the way that editorial responsibilities are defined in the new form of HRT. This applies not only to IMS, so to information-media services, but to all software content. We are sure that this solution with 7 main editors of software channels really enables us to locate editorial responsibilities for every content that appears on HRT, and that seems unusually important to us. We started discussing it with HRT, with the Directorate and with V.D. Director of the program. We don't have a coherent attitude so far, we'll see how it develops further. But in our report, you can see that we have specifically pointed to this problem. Finally, regarding the position of the Programme Council in this legislative framework, I am obliged to inform this High House that has chosen us, and we mentioned this in our written warning of the problem of inadequate involvement of HRT professional services in the preparation of session materials and between them. Amendments to the Law on HRT powers of the Programme Council have been significantly constrained in relation to previous laws. However, members and members of the Council consider that, as a body of the HRT established by law, they have rights and obligations relating to the supervision of the programme. Taking into account the fact that the role of the Programme Council is defined as the voice of the public, and in order to be able to carry out our work professionally and professionally, the members of the Programme Council are asked by the Parliament that he has appointed them to warn the Head of the HRT that it is up to the Programme Council to make available all the required information and to refer to the Programme Council with due professional respect as one of the bodies of the HRT to which, just as with the other HRT bodies, it is important to provide basic conditions for work, i.e. that we have a timely access to the data we need in order to fulfill our role. Of course, I'm willing to answer if there are any questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70943	Thank you. We have a report of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Your Honor, Agent Ivan Shuker, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70944	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I believe that the articles of Rules 121 and 122 have been broken. Article 121(1) states: "The government shall designate a member of the Government and a deputy minister for its representatives in the Assembly to discuss the draft laws and other acts." And now it continues to say that if the Parliament considers that it does not, that is paragraph three, if the debate does not involve a representative of the Government and in paragraph 1 of this article or a working body may and does not consider that the presence of a Government representative is necessary to suspend and delay the debate. And Article 122(2). The requested views of the Government's position and proposals in cases where it is not a proposal from the Government are required to deliver to the Parliament and to designate its representative. So, in this report that we have now heard the report in the last part of the opinion, the government has appointed as its representatives who will be present in connection with the opinion expressed, I underline this at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament and its working bodies the Government has appointed Professor Andrej Zlatar Violić, Culture Minister, Professor Berislav Šipus, Deputy Culture Minister and Tamara Perišić and Vesna Juric Bulatović Assistant Culture Minister. So the government itself has written here for representatives who will be present at the session of the Croatian Parliament in the opinions presented. That is the opinion of the Government signed by the Prime Minister, Mr Milanovic, and when you add these articles to 121, 122, then, Mr Vice President, I think we have broken the Rules of Procedure, in fact, the one who holds the sitting.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70945	I can agree with you that it would be much better if the Prime Minister were here, but we have the government's opinion and I think we can conduct the debate without the Prime Minister. Jasen Mesic reporting. Why are you picking up now?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70946	Dear Vice President, since we have four government opinions here that are being debated in this debate, two of which are negative and one and a half are positive or one we can't decrypt whether it's positive or negative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70947	Look, you're reporting completely outside the Rules of Procedure, I give you my word, you may now or seek a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70948	Okay. Then we're looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70949	Ten minutes for the club. Ten minutes. It's 11:00.31.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70950	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11.41 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70951	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. As the esteemed vice-president of the HDZ Club Mr. Schuker said, we asked for this pause to be protested, we express our extreme disrespect that the competent ministry is unable to respect what the Prime Minister has signed and the Prime Minister has signed in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that those present at the meetings of the Croatian Parliament and his working bodies will either be Minister Zlatar Violic or Mr. Berislav Šipus and on the committees of Ms. Tamara Perisic or Mrs. Vesna Juric-Bulatovic. This ignoring and disrespecting of the Croatian Parliament and its obligations by the competent Ministry of Culture, which established a special new department for the media, hired new people and new experts not to appear accordingly at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament where reports on HRT have been discussed since 2011 and, in conclusion, at the end of 2013, as regards the Report of the Programme Council. Since this is a united debate, we have 4 views of the government, of which two are negative, one is positive and one is unarticulated, or it does not say whether it is positive or not, it is impossible without explaining the people of the Ministry of Culture in charge of being present at Parliament meetings to understand what is meant to be said. When you look at the opinion of the Programme Council of June 2012 on the report of the Croatian Programme Council for 2011 which was rejected and the opinion on the work of the Programme Council by the end of 2013 then the question is raised to ask the representatives of the Ministry of Culture on which criteria this report was accepted and for which reason both were well done and well done and on which criteria the report on the work of the Supervisory Board was rejected in October 2012 and is now accepted. What are the criteria and what methodology this has been done by both concrete indicators and why the Government has not written whether the opinion is positive or negative. Once we talked here in the Croatian Parliament about media politics, respected colleague Igor Dragovan cried out. Does the ministry have a ministry, so if the minister can't, Mrs Zlata Violic, whether there is a deputy Mr. Šipus who usually comes to the Croatian Parliament to defend legal proposals. Well, if there isn't a deputy, then at least one of the assistants in charge. This is a disgrace to colleagues and colleagues that after we are discussing practically a three-year period that none of the opinions of the Ministry of Culture can be further explained in the Croatian Parliament and answered one question by MPs and MPs either from the post, or from the opposition. At the same time, a new department opened up, some media strategy was created, of which there are no leads yet, and at the same time you have no one to ask by which criteria one, two, three, four or five opinions were adopted. Neither the Director-General nor the President of the Programme Council nor the Chairman of the Supervisory Board can respond. In this sense, this is extremely illogical, extremely irresponsible and ultimately completely disabling the one who signed that opinion on behalf of the government, which is Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. Since he was explicit at the government meeting, he said that he would not be interested in the programme but that he was very interested in the financial situation on HRT, so I am very interested in why there are no members of his government who have been tasked with being present and that, possibly, he has further answered his opinion on the issues of MPs and MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70952	Now, here's the deal. You object that there are no government representatives in the debate, the debate is not open at all. No one's opened the debate. The second thing you resent is that there are no ministers and deputies here at least an assistant, an assistant can't defend the government's opinions here. Thirdly, even if a representative of the government came, he couldn't say anything other than what it said in the government's report, and he couldn't change that report and the government's opinion here at the session. And fourthly, if you have any questions for the minister, deputy or anyone I direct you to, we have in the Rules of Procedure a regulated institute of parliamentary matters, it may be orally asked at the beginning of the session and you can send a written question at any time and ask the Minister why she is not here today. Then the minister will have to answer. The debate does not require the presence of a government representative, we discussed last week a whole series of reports without a government representative on important issues, but we also adopted them at the vote. Now, if you want to ask for a break for the club session again, we can do it by nightfall, but we'll discuss these points today, even if we discuss them by five in the morning. If you want to obstruct Parliament's work continue, we've lost two hours and 15 minutes without having yet to absorb the opening statements but watch this public follow, evaluates my work as well as yours. Now we move on to the replicas, and we have another exhibition, and where we are from the replicas, we are still far from the replicas, to hear now and the third introductive, respected Viktor Gotovina, president of the HRT Supervisory Board. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70953	Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, valuable parliamentary representatives and MPs, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to begin by apologizing the esteemed members and members of the Committee on Information, Informing the Media of the Croatian Parliament, because of previous appointments yesterday in Sibenik, I could not attend yesterday's meeting of the Committee. Please accept my apology for this, but I would also point out that the business and operation of HRT, at least in my opinion, is an important issue that deserves to be set aside when meetings of valuable content are scheduled on the agenda so that it is not within such short notice. Before you a report on the work and implementation of the supervision of the legality of the work and financial operations of the HRT in 2012 was made in accordance with the obligation and delivered to you by the basis of the provision of Article 23, paragraph 5 of the HRT Act. Content of the report, which unites 2 calls for the Croatian Supervisory Board of the Croatian Supervisory Board, which submits a second convocation appointed in the Croatian Parliament on 30 November 2012. The report on the work of the HRT Supervisory Board and the implementation of the supervision of the legality of the work and financial operations of the HRT for the period from 21 February 2011 to 08 May 2012. The way we submitted these two reports in one formal content for the entire 2012 year is the expression of our desire to stop the practice that has been done on HRT. Given the short time of our term of office in 2012, our report is short, I am talking about this report concerning the second convocation of the Supervisory Board. It shall contain, in a transparent manner, a certain reporting period, the HRT management bodies, members of the Supervisory Board, the legal basis of supervision, the control of the operation of the HRT during these two periods, means until 29 November 2012 and in the period until the end of 2012. We had three sessions, the first that was in its nature constituting, the second that was primarily technical and normative nature and only the third, the last session in 2012 at which we began to set up elements of the supervision of legality in that part as prescribed by the law. The report also includes a report on the work of the HRT Supervisory Board and on the implementation of the supervision of the legality of work and financial operations from 21 February to 08 May, after which it shall review the agendas of the meetings of the first meeting of the HRT Supervisory Board, the second convened by the Supervisory Board, which took place at the end of 2012 and reviewed the conclusions of the second meeting of the HRT Supervisory Board for 2012. I note that we adopted the 2012 financial report in October 2013 and will process them in the 2013 report that we expect to adopt shortly after 30 June 2014. So much so that I don't take up your time to argue.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70954	Thank you very much. Now we've got a reported breach of the Rules of Procedure again. Dear colleague Davorin Mlakar, come in. What did we hurt the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70955	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mesic spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club, you found it related to correcting a good part of what he was talking about, but in your correction you injured the Rules of Procedure, which you so often call upon to stick to. This is about Article 246. The Rules of Procedure in which he writes to you, and I invite you to go to those norms when the debate begins on a particular agenda point after the agenda is established. As far as we know, the agenda has been established and there was no need for you to correct your fellow Mesic because of a legitimate requirement for the government's representatives to be present because the explicits were mentioned in the government's opinion at this point of the agenda. So while you are calling upon the Rules of Procedure, try to hold on to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70956	Yes, yes, I refer to the Rules of Procedure and I apply the Rules of Procedure. After the opening presentations, the debate opens and then the time for the hearing is even measured, as you can see, the clock is not yet on, so I have not misapplyed the Rules of Procedure. There's no discussion with the chairman. There's no discussion with the chairman's colleague, Mlakar. You have the right, if you think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, please contact the Constitutional Committee. And now what is this violation of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70957	This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure, paragraph 1, after the establishment of the agenda shall be moved to the debate on certain topics of the agenda and in the order set out in the agenda. For your information.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70958	That would mean that when we determine the agenda that we have opened the debate for all 50 points, you are thus interpreting the Rules of Procedure. Well done. We're moving on to replicas that are probably 12. [[I read you what you wrote in the Rules of Procedure.]] The first one was answered by Mr. Radman's opening statement, Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70959	Thank you, Vice President. I responded to the principal's speech when he spoke about the financial situation and the losses in 2012. The truth is, I think it was necessary to say that the losses were planned in 2012 to 7 million kuna, however, at the end of the year they were over 20 million kuna, and this was mostly thanks to the temporary director and temporary administration that was since July of the month until the end of the year, when they increased by more than 4% of the planned items for staff costs, when the coefficients and certain editorial positions were started to be shared that this was the relevant set-up of HRT at the time and that this loss occurred. If the old administration remained, the loss would probably be 7 million kuna. It is true that losses have accumulated as you have said for 6 or 7 years, but it is also true that they have begun to decrease since 2011 and should also have been in 2012. By changing the law of July, when the vd management or vd director was appointed, the situation was drastically broken and without any criteria and under that particular discretionary law, the costs you said were increased, so there was a loss of 20 million kuna and some million kuna that you mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70960	Second replica, Tink Millas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70961	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my replica. It's about the same as Mr. Mesic's replica. Mr. Director, in his 2012 presentation, which was logical and clear to me that he had not been in office before, even if I did not cheat on the two months of 2012 everything in the mandate, said that the business plan for 2012 was burdened by the various events of the Turbulent Year which had a direct impact on HRT which I agree with. In fact, some of the events or inactions had their impact on HRT directly did not implement the law for which we held this House responsible, but in his presentation yesterday he said that he thought that the business plan was unrealistic. So here's the truth for I'll also look back at 2012 and say that in the first 6 months of 2012 for a steady decline in ratings, and HTV came from three national houses from third places of view, increased public content per number of minutes in the reception team and during that period came from 8 of Europe's most watched TV and which was very important to increase the income from marketing compared to 2011. So this is what I'm saying about the period, and I'm stressing once again the first six months of administration that was removed in July 2012 as well as everything else that was in the leading positions on HRT. In other words, the plan may have been realistic but simply in the conditions that have come and everything that has happened has not been possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70962	Third replica Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70963	Thank you very much. For Mr. Chief Director of HTV, first time later for Mrs. Koržinek. In an explanation of the financial expenditures for 2012 as I would say alibi and explanation, you stated that there were increased costs due to among others and the World Cup in football and match transfer from the World Cup in football. I live in Slavonski Brod where TV signals can capture both BiH and OBN and PTPC, the Radiotelevision of Republika Srpska, which broadcast the world championship to the same extent. So given the poverty of these televisions to say poverty on condition and their incomes I do not understand that these TVs, unlike HTV, have just found the World Cup in football and other sporting events precisely in that explanation for increased expenditure in 2012. I think it is more about what Mr Mesic said the allocation of coefficients and the distribution of editorial sites, a reorganisation that led to an increase in expenditure of not 20 million but almost 30 million kuna losses in 2012. HTV's fees are therefore for those who pay Croatian citizens to mention twice as much as those in BiH, regardless of whether it was the Federation or so. Republika Srpska.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70964	Replica, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70965	Thank you very much. Listening to the 7-minute explanation of the 2012 HRT Business Report, and by analysing this report, I got the impression that it was some insignificant state institution that employs two, three people and has an income of approximately 100 thousand kuna a year. but it is one of the most important state institutions and I find it insufficiently reasoned report and insufficiently explained. There was no explanation of why it took so long to put together a simplified report like this. It wasn't a demanding job at all, nor was it an extensive job. Why didn't you show yourself about the findings of the State Audit or why you didn't explain the findings of the State Audits when it came to their objections to marketing agencies where there were discounts for agencies that had debts to HRT which was not in accordance with the law? This was therefore an observation by the State. They also had observations about the cost of wages, that the stimulating part of the salary was given to music production, and therefore there was no basis. It's the same in the State Audit report. There was also an explanation of the public procurement that three million kunas were purchased under public procurement rules. There was no explanation of the results of the business and the very reasoning of the individual items. He says in the demand structure from marketing customers, the biggest buyers are you and you, and you don't know how much they owe. Well, at least to indicate how much anyone owes. Why were short-term liabilities to banks increased by 70 million kuna in 2012? There is no question of suicide or termination due to the suicide of an internal auditor at HRT who pointed to irregularities. And we'd like to hear if there's a conflict of interest on HRT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70966	Followed by the replica of Ivan Simunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70967	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. By studying the financial report on HRT's business, I wondered how it was possible that, with the revenues from the radio-television subscription and the revenues from commercial advertising, HRT would go down. But by studying and reading in particular the State Audit report, I realized that it was an uncontrollable money leak. The HRT budget is running all over the place, and it's no wonder that ship's sinking. Obviously, the need for a thorough structural reform of HRT has just shown some indication that it is trying to save the matter but it seems to be about the method of trying and making mistakes. One such complex system will not be derived from the problem of random cutting and abolishing correspondence that reported quality and quantitatively and contributed to the public HRT. Elimination of smaller correspondence contributes to the centralisation of the HRT programme and raises the question of whether it is more public television and whether citizens should continue to pay the subscription. A message is sent to citizens from areas covered by smaller correspondence that are irrelevant. There is concern that the practice of such cutting could continue and eventually be reduced to the building on Prisavlje on HRT, and the rest of Croatia is completely alienated from its programme. Is that the bill behind this policy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70968	Now we'll hear the replica of Dragan Montenegro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70969	Thank you. So here's because we could hear that even in the report of the HRT Programme Council, it's kind of an observation that the director has too much authority and that he has not respected any remarks, I would remind the truth of the will that the HRT Act was passed here in the Parliament. It was proposed by the Ministry of Culture resolutely in the part where Mr Mesic was the minister of culture, and eventually he will return that the current chairman of the Programme Council was the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture for the Media, which was all to say to accept the proposals and eventually, as such, it came out and such a law was passed. Although we were at the time saying that it should be changed, we were giving amendments related to the income side as regards commercial things, now some things are forgotten. So we were just saying that these things are no good. Now the president of the Programme Council sees that these things cannot be implemented through the Programme Council in practice. As for commercial expenditures, it's about 40 million kuna, not much, which reduced marketing space. We said it takes a bigger minute to give HRT, but it's taken from the citizens again, so it's taken again, and it's the biggest income, and it's growing drastically from the subscription. And as far as I'm concerned, I'd like the principal to explain to us, even though I don't know how long he's been working on this issue, the issue of the famous Orpheus company that's in bankruptcy. The bankruptcy plan, etc., is now not met, and it is also made of funds paid by citizens, and the citizens know nothing about it. As this bankruptcy is being carried out, will it already be over and what is Orpheus doing now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70970	Now they're following the replicas to part of the opening exhibition of the esteemed Nina Obulen Koržinek. Ivan Domagoj Milosevic, please. He's gone. Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70971	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, in the opening statement, it started with the 2012 report, and it was said that it was an intensive year, and then Mrs. Objavljen was obliged to provide all the information from the HRT programming principles, so I will remind you, among other things, that HRT is in charge of these programming principles that define the content and function of HRT public services. Among other things, it is necessary to produce and publish programmes aimed at informing members of Croatian people outside the Republic of Croatia, as well as programmes intended for the public in the Republic of Croatia concerning life, events and problems of Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia. I assume you know the fact that by virtue of the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, every month for the production of emissions, two half-hour, weekly emissions are paid 1.3 million kuna per month, i.e. 16 million kuna per year. The impression is, in fact, that these shows, given their ratings and the times in which they are actually published, are necessarily evil for HRT, which you didn't actually talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70972	Followed by the replica of Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70973	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here is the President of the Programme Council, who made it clear that the members of the Programme Council were insolent about the programme and that they did not agree with the programming schemes shown to them. I would just like to update that they said a lot of words that alluded to that they heard from nothing and that they were not presented with anything concrete but all in phrases and were asked many times whether they were at a session of the Central Committee or were really present at the session of the HRT Programme Council. Since a lot of harsher words were used at that session, the debate on conflicts of interest and the punishment of Mr. Director with 15 000 kuna by the Committee of Conflict of Interests was also held, it was silenced and nothing was said about it. But when we talk about the Programme Council and the debate, we heard today from you that there are 7 editors-in-chiefs on HRT, so if they don't meet the standards, if they haven't exactly made a programming scheme and delivered it to the Programme Council, I don't know what they should be doing anymore. I believe that these seven editors-in-chiefs are like the seven SCOY secretaries on the party line and the real program. I believe that we should prevent this, regardless of whether we are in the Programme Council blue, black, red or any other, because so Croatian public television cannot work, create a programme, and not make what citizens no longer want: one programming scheme that speaks of everything and everything, just not about what is happening in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70974	Last line, Sunny Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70975	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If I understand correctly, you have invited today and representatives of the Croatian Parliament to assist the members of the Programme Council because you obviously do not have a two-way communication with the Croatian Radio Directorate. Does this mean that the Directorship, even though yours, we all know that all of us are legal powers and the adoption of the new HRT Act is a little constrained, does this mean that the director, or directorship of the HRT, is ignoring you in questioning what your tasks are, therefore, fulfilling your programming obligations. If a contract is concluded between the Government and Croatian Radio Television, whether the law is respected, whether important topics such as the Homeland War are discussed, whether they fulfil obligations related to the Drama Programme, HAVCU etc. And I want to ask you again what is wrong with the documentary series "The Crimes of Communism in Croatia" which, for some unknown reason, should have been reviewed several more times. It was public knowledge, there was talk of it. However, whether something was done in the production of Croatian radio or in co-production, in which the money was invested is located somewhere in the bunker and whether there is a ban on broadcasting. Do you have any knowledge of this and therefore in the end whether it is possible for the HRT Directorate to ignore your demands, your instructions, and at least that's how it's seen in your report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70976	Thank you. And now loud enough and clear enough that everyone can hear me and understand I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Labour Club, the first reported to Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70977	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Director, the President of the Programme Council, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, colleagues and colleagues. Now we need to talk a little bit about the essence, we've spent a lot of time. First of all, it would be very good if Croatian Radio Television, I am talking about 2012 on the financial report due to 29, if it had dealt with a minus of 29 million kuna, 28th and something. In 2012, the loss was about a billion kuna. What's this about? The transferred loss is 334 million kuna. The loss in 2012 is 29 million kuna. 360 million kunas to banks, obligations to suppliers of 137 million kuna and obligations to tax, contributions and fees are 175 million kuna. This is actually the reality of finance on Croatian Radio Television in 2012. For 2013, we will see some short-term loans that are likely to be paid and I hope that the financial situation will be much better in 2013. However, I will now quote Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, who said he was only interested in the finance and financial consolidation of Croatian Radio Television as prime minister. I quote: "I don't want to affect the programme but I expect the financial consolidation of HTV. The quality has every opinion, the finances interest me as prime minister and I will focus on that." What is Croatian Radio Television? Is it a monetary institution or is it a public television, a television that needs to be fulfilled in a very large way towards citizens who fill the budget and television with billions and 200 million kunas. If the Croatian Radio Television were to operate without loss, if it did not have a 29 million kuna debt for 2012, if it did not have a kuna of credit, if everything was paid and if it had a program such as it has, it is a very failed institution. That balance we're watching if it's just the prime minister, if he thinks the prime minister is his only concern for finance in Croatian broadcasting, not him, but the government, then it's the wrong approach. Public television has a great commitment to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, according to the public and its functions are primarily informative character, fun character, educational character. None of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia care about that, business. He wants to know when the TV will turn on what he sees on Croatian TV. That's the wrong approach. The wrong approach also seems to me to be to restructure Croatian broadcasting. What will be restructured? Finance. Will the program be restructured? This is where the President of the Programme Council said that it is difficult to determine the responsibility of editors for individual segments of the programme. If I were to ask in one sentence for the definition of the Croatian Broadcasting Programme, I would say that the programme is currently without character. There's one television page that's advertised to be character television. This is a television without character that knows no responsibility, in which a media service was made. And now the question is whether this media service is at the service of citizens or at the service of individual clans on Croatian television or at the service of only fulfilling such as, as the chief director of Croatian Radio Television Mr. Radman said before, the programme obligations under the government contract were met, statistically speaking, they are likely to be met. If a careful report of the programming council is read, but not just those of the first few pages. If a report was read from the session, from all sessions then it was seen what the programme council was up against, it was struggling to establish co-operation with the administration and with the head director of the HRT. Yesterday, Mrs. Koržinek Ogulen told us that they were able to make a deal and hope for a better one. One of the biggest mistakes that happened and now I'm talking about the program because the programme council gave a report for 2013 was just a human error. When selecting editors who were either not qualified, they had to step down from that job or faked the data or were simply out of line with the work that was ahead of him, so they resigned. It is absolutely certain that all responsibility cannot be borne by the Director-General but the law against which the Croatian Labourists were, against which it seems to me that the entire opposition has given all power to one man and then I said I will not mention the name that this man must be not to be an emphasis range exactly on a cartoon. It is said yesterday that the president of the council said that council members are a little frustrated by the failure to meet the obligations of the contract. You must know that Mrs. Ogulen Koržinek, in very chosen words here and here, but yesterday on the Committee, she actually said that this contract with the Government was actually prescribed, an old contract with only some small changes and that until today we have not experienced any new amendments or amendments to that contract that should have been offered to the Government because it has now been enough time. The Programme Council has rightly agreed to this mode of work because Croatian funding for the year would be at stake and a few days have passed since the signing it seems to me or a year with the Government of the Treaty and amendments to the contract could already be made. One of the most devastating facts of this government and the HRT is a report by reporters without borders that cannot be silenced. We have often been unfair to HDZ when we would scream at every such fall to the sky and the title and Serbia here is better than Croatia and above all Serbia is better than Croatia in media freedoms because of HRT. It's like this. HRT has been criticised for lack of independence following reforms conducted by Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, HRT chief and members of the supervisory board, which allows the ruling party to exercise political control over the content of the broadcast. Some I read in some newspapers analysis of politicians' roaming in high-level information political shows at HRT over a few months there were no opposition politicians. I think it rarely happens on HRT when it happens, is this coincidence likely to be answered by the President of the Council, I think even one council member was investigating himself because he couldn't get the information on HRT because HRT probably doesn't have that kind of data, so he called the MPs himself, I know because he called me and asked how many times I've been in the HRT log. The programme council's report also lists the exact number of times the opposition has hosted in the HRT daily and how many times the authorities. One, I think it's just... mentioning this one fact that I have to talk about that was warned by journalists and editors on HRT, which is fear. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Many people who talk to me are looking for a meeting but not in Parliament because they don't dare come to Parliament because they're going to be seen, looking for a meeting and praying we have to promise not to mention their name here at the pay phone as I mentioned some names before, before the new board came to HRT from Maya North, all these people who are working on HRT today have their own shows, when they've been chicanned. I mentioned them. Now they're asking me not to mention any of the names, that fear, given some of the cancellations that have taken place, given the way they communicate with journalists, seems very justified to me. Now I'd like to talk about ratings. Someone once said that HRT was like public television in Europe at the top of ratings, fifth, sixth. This is how for the 2000-year-old HRT's data was immediately visible. It makes me not sure you don't hold onto the word behind Poland's television, so one former East television. That's when I polluted with then-highly positioned Mrs. Maria Germanic on HRT that this is not proof that HRT fulfils its basic tasks under the law. Statistics are not the most important condition of public television relevance. You need to know that BBC is not the first-place viewer in the United Kingdom is nowhere near the first place, but you need to know that BBC is the most respected television, not just in the United Kingdom, but one of the most respected TVs in the world. And the BBC has never competed with commercial television in the ratings. HRT seems exactly the opposite, competing in terms of commercial television, losing the battle in commercial content because in this, Nova TV and RTL are more skilled, and it lost the battle where it was only allowed to lose the battle. HRT should be recognized by the information programme, there are three national relevant TVs in the last place and the fat in the last place, it should be recognized by the drama programme, by the educational programme and by the entertainment programme, but by the domestic one. We know what the founders of the BBC have declared, meaning the founders of the first public television, to which public television should be done. The Croatian drama programme from 2006 to 2012 produced no television film, no drama series, but 5 soap operas, 6 sitcoms were produced during that period, such as comedy, situation. And how was it used to be? Remember, there were Gruntovci, Mejaši, Little Misto, Big Misto, In Registration, Cyclops, Back to Vučjak, Prosjacs and Sons, Where Wild Pigs Go, Kappel Krists, Cat under the helmet, but they are very important, there is Krleža, Marinković, Horvat, writers, home heritage. What about the heritage on HRT? Soaps, I won't mention names because they don't deserve, who writes... the scripts for those soap operas. They are now a replacement for Marinkovic and Krlež and on HRT. Fortunately, this practice was abandoned in 2013, but it seems to me that we still don't have a single drama series. Are they, they say, in the report of the Programme Council, actually in the debate of the drama series cannot be recorded on HRT because they are too expensive. How come they weren't expensive in the '70s, '80s? Drama series that were repreated 10-ac, 15 times the most profitable product of HRT, they brought the most reputation for Zagreb TV today to HRT. They were in drawers, and today there are probably scenarios for Central European co-productions that former administrations, I speak, not present, and as far as this report and previous administrations are concerned, have declined from us unknown reasons. When the head director came to HRT, I think I heard from one of his statements that it's not necessary to reform HRT in a way that lets people go, but it's important to hire people. All those frames that are on HRT, who can work, these are journalists, beautiful, HRT has the best journalists, HRT has great editors, HRT has the cameramen to look for the candle, HRT has great installers and it needs to produce programs that can be sold. The BBC lives on sales. Why can't we sell? It's like saying that, I don't know, the Croatian entrepreneur can't sell NATO to the pacts. It can and sells them, so HRT can produce a program that can be sold, but it needs talented, capable people, visionaries and those people who will be allowed to do so. However, as has been shown in these last few months, a year and a half, when we talk about a new administration or v.d. Management, talent isn't the most important thing, it's proven from a number of examples. Imagine that on commercial television one of the editors, editor-in-chief or director of that television tells the owner that he will not fill something or do something that the owner disagrees with. Remember only the cry from the part of the Kukuriku coalition when HDZ was in power, when the term for the transfer of the session of the Croatian Parliament changed. Now the meetings of the Croatian Parliament have fallen in the fourth programme with 1% ratings, if it has 1%. The other thing is we don't know how much ratings there is because HRT doesn't inform its viewers how much these shows are watched. In fact, HRT, the HRT administration has forced parliament into illegality. The viewers call, write, I get dozens of e-mails, which is why the Assembly sessions are interrupted with the fourth program. Now watch out, the meetings of the Croatian Parliament were transferred, important topics and all day on the second programme, now that HRT has four programs, now they cannot be transmitted because there is no space, and at 8 o'clock or a little later you have video pages. Video sites were known in the '80s, the most primitive form of television is just video pages. The HRT on the fourth program exercises that form. That was also a warning to the programming council. On HRT, there are extra employees, those who are employed by political ties that are without talent, who do not do their job, which are linked to HRT only payroll. There are directors who haven't produced a movie in years, and they're on high wages, not high-coefficients on HRT. And at the very end, quite certain that Mr. Radman, the Program Council, the Supervisory Board who received the almost sizif's job of destroying 20 years of HRT, negative selection has no magic wand, can't knock into a tree and make overnight watch should not be the most watched and respected quoted television. But all that has been done so far is too slow and does not give hope that the HRT on Prisavlje will deal with what needs to be done, as the prime minister said, are the most important finances to it, viewers are the most important programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70978	We move on to replicas, first respected Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70979	Thank you very much. A colleague, Vuksic, was one of the following, and you repeated it in your debate that the program is without character on HTV. That's what you literally said and said again. And then you discussed public television as television, which is not as independent as it should be, but under the political control of the employer. And I'd just add to your exposure that television is without character just like his employer. In fact, this is directed or better said, given that television is a tele-tele-tele-tele-tele-tele-tele-tele-tele-tele-tele-tele-tele-tele-tele-tele-tele-tele-tele-tele-tele-tele-tele-tele-tele-tele-tele-tele-tele-tele-tele-tele-t. And I'll explain later in my debate what this is really about. Let's say the series that was recorded The Crimes of Communism is not broadcast, and instead the series is broadcast by American documentary Ruth 66,... /The speaker speaks English./... as it is said. When will what's recorded be broadcast and what's the serial? Although there were four shows, now three allegedly no one knows, neither the programming board nor the board of directors, and maybe the head director knows. I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70980	The replica matches Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70981	Dear colleague Grubisic, that the program is without character I speak of an example of the information programme. HRT has all the prerequisites, excellent editors, excellent journalists, has a network of correspondents that is loose but we'll talk about 11 memoirs and so on. video to journalists who are absolutely certain to be one of the major errors of HRT. But the question is that every editor when editing the Dnevnik has its own concept, its own criteria. I can't say on HRT that there are blacklists, but there are white lists. There are lists of people who are preferred. This does not mean that there is an event in the economy that the most relevant person in the economy will be visiting in a diary or talking about any other informative show or that if something happened on the political scene, the most relevant person on that day would be the politician or the one who caused it or who is being talked about or who is being attacked that he will be visiting the Dnevnik. The tenth face. How many times have I spoken here in the Croatian Parliament, there is a man who has changed that title three times in front. First he was a party strategist, then he was an analyst, and he works at a factory in the administration and HTV non-stop because he was a member of a party, non-stop and I warned him about it. Editors in writing I warned you here on the board I warned we didn't get an answer. So what you were saying about the Crimes of Communism, the debate was held at the Programme Council session on this. Some of them wondered if it was censorship, others claimed that HRT what I agree, for a long time I was an editor, has the right to simply check facts not censorship, has the right to editorial intervention not censorship. But if that's what you said in the bunker for months, it should be explained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70982	A new replica, the esteemed Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70983	Dear colleague, I agree with most of the exposure you've been making. I particularly agree with you in that section about the information program and here, as is the Programme Council and the President of the Programme Council, they find that I cannot determine responsibility and even in our discussions, and also with the Director-General when you give him the attention and you suggest the answer comes from editors. No matter what this new law apostropheed the principal as a practically responsible person on HRT and in some way responsible for the work of the editor did he set them up in some way. The respected colleague, on the first and second programmes, no more shows where certain political opponents can exchange views in any topic in front of the Croatian public, talk about any problem of economy, science, health or anything, there is no such thing. On the third channel of HRT, which usually has good shows, no one from the opposition has ever visited. When you point that out, the answer comes that the concept of the third channel is such that politicians do not visit. But then, miraculously, suddenly in an interview alone with a journalist, the culture minister Mrs Zlatar Violic appeared. Thus, this principle applies to some, and to some, it does not apply. Therefore, the fact is that public television and its information section do not meet the obligations public media service should meet.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70984	The replica matches Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70985	Here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to do one sin. Look, when I refer to Hlorka Novak-Srzic, there were good times when we had shows like "Open" where the opposition and authority and those not in the Parliament and those who were relevant to the political scene, intellectuals, when it came out on HRT. Today, they say when we discuss and discuss it at the meetings of the Programme Council, we said we put it on the 4th program. Be careful, the ratings are questionable in the first program, and imagine the viewership of the 4th program. If HRT had done everything to make this 4th programme the first programme through which the Croatian public would be informed no one would mind, however, I continue to argue that the programme is almost illegal. It doesn't even know how to express itself on its own pages, so some council members are deluded, so let's make sure the press releases both program 4 and 3. The newspapers publish private what they will publish, so they have no obligation, they do it because of their readers, and because they know that the 3rd and 4th programs are not seen, with the 3rd programme far better and has its purpose, the 4th is the program that is sought. Unfortunately, there is a tendency that people who have something to say, and above all they are independent intellectuals, those are people who have something to say, should be removed from the microphone, should be removed from the cameras in order to manage easily.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70986	A new replica, the esteemed Tinker Millas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70987	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Vuksic, in one part of your exposure, you said that the ratings for HRT are not important, that they should neither be pursued nor reached. I can agree with this other part and agree that HRT is a service that must be available to all categories of audience, so in every sense. However, this cannot again mean that ratings do not matter. You're talking about this BBC, you're talking about the series that were created in the former state, which are really cool, which we're looking at today, but I'm asking the question that they're not so good, or that they're not being watched whether they'd be re-enacted, whether they'd be able to watch them today. You're talking about information emissions that matter. But isn't it just news shows, if they're good and watched, whether ratings are just a criterion that determines whether something is right or wrong? Let's say the film that gets 5-6 million support, and it's seen by 200 or 300 people in movies, does it mean that it's art that most people don't understand, actually who it is that sets the criteria if it's not ratings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70988	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70989	Comrade Miles, I'll say you misunderstood me. I said that ratings aren't the most important and that HRT, look at the stenogram, lose the battle where it can't lose, and that's exactly in the information program because it has every prerequisite that it has the best information program. He's got a network of correspondence, he's got great journalists, he's got great editors, he's got resources. As old as the cameras are, I heard the CEO say there's one of the camera's recorders up on camera bought Radman back in the '80s, late '80s, so these are the cameras that are for museums and on these cameras they can produce a great program. Therefore, ratings are important but not the most important for public television. You can't if you broadcast an opera show or anything from a culture, expect great ratings. Normally, the BBC has the highest ratings, so that's where the Pussy, the show that ruined the world was produced. When we produce such series and for the Central European space we produce a very relevant series, when we will now have a great view in Croatia on HRT and we will be able to export. And the other thing was, the TVs of Austria, Hungary, the Czech Republic were supposed to make a series of what HRT missed, and now Slovenia, a drama series, were going to do. So the thing is whether to look for a job, whether to look for HRT connection to other Central Europe or Europe broadcasters is wider and whether we are going to produce a quality documentary programme. After all, we know that one series is broadcast on a well-known world channel, a documentary, documentary-played series of our Mr. Buric seems to me. So we have an author, we have talented people, we just have to give them a chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70990	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70991	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Vuksic, in my opinion, you idealized a little bit by thanking, of course, all those who work on HRT, so you said that they were absolutely the best journalists and you mentioned others, but I mention journalists, compared to other TVs. So, in my opinion, HRT has great journalists, good journalists and bad journalists, as well as other TV. So there are great ones and there are those who do less good work. But what's a problem that you've actually been indirectly talking about, as far as HRT is concerned, is, when we talk about journalists, the most journalists. However, some do much, one small, and there are those who do almost nothing. So that's what one of the problems we should talk very openly about is. As far as the transfer is concerned, the debate in the Croatian Parliament will continue to be a lot of obstacles. It seems to me that some discussions are better not to be transmitted, given the quality, to the level and to the messages sent from the assembly. So it is not always important that people see everything we say here, it is important that we make good laws and it is important that we send the right messages at this very moment that is extremely difficult for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70992	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70993	Well, I think that's what we agree on. First I didn't idealize, I said there were also bad journalists, bad directors who don't work, who receive salaries, which are related to Croatian Radio Television only paysheets. But look, Croatian Radio Television is a crucible of staff Mislav Bago, Iva Gačić, Andrija Jarak, Ivana Petrus. These are all Croatian broadcasters working on other TVs. We can't ignore that. All of this was educated by Croatian Radio Television, it invested in them and that's good. They've stayed in this space, they're working and it's perfectly normal. On Croatian television, there is also potential among young journalists. The thing is, who's in charge, who's the editor-in-chief, whether they recognize talent or don't recognize talent and whether they're real people on shows, whether they're real editors of journals, or news or water those journals that have the worst accent in Europe and the world, and who keep putting themselves in charge, etc. That's a lack of criteria. That's why I said it was a TV without character. And that doesn't mean they have bad journalists like other commercial TVs bad journalists. But I was saying that Croatian broadcasting has the potential of human resources, it has human resources. But unfortunately, it's the editors who have white, black lists and it's always like that, always. It's not now. In the first row when I spoke to journalists on Croatian radio. They say there's a problem with self-censorship because they taught us that it must be the government that's in the front row. And now let the principal look, let's analyze the structure of the journal, the structure of the news, the way it's accessed. You can see exactly who's left-handed, who's right-handed, who belongs to these, who belongs to those. This is not allowed on Croatian television except in commentary, the comment is acceptable. But you can't see in the structure of the news and in the way you talk to each other, when the guest leader who's right-handed leads and left-handed "No, I won't let you talk." And that was on Croatian radio.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70994	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70995	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Vuksic, you said that Croatian radiotelevision forced Parliament into illegality. I don't agree with that at all. I think that Croatian television is just one of the tools of those chosen mostly in this House, who forced this same Parliament into illegality. Because it's clear to everyone today that it's very difficult to talk about HTV as public television. And now you've confirmed that earlier in response to the replica, too. So it's definitely about state television that holds us to say that to those who decide, to those who manage it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70996	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70997	I agree, you have completed my thought, with that thought being me a hundred times repeated here in the Parliament that the Croatian Parliament is a fig leaf, he is in illegal and he is covering only, decisions are made on the other side of Mark's square. HRT wouldn't have done what he did if someone in power had said you couldn't do it, because they still represent the owner. Is that once two years ago I might have something a little less said by one of the ministers you're fighting for your picture on screens, in five minutes' glory. Tell me, which politician doesn't want his messages to reach their voters? These politicians lie when they say it doesn't matter. That's very important. It is important that people know how we work in Parliament and who is fighting for what. And it's important. That false modesty doesn't even work with voters.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70998	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the time will be shared by Jasen Mesic and Suncana Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u70999	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, the Honorable Director, the Honorable President of the Council, the Programme Council, the Honorable President of the Supervisory Board of Croatian Radio Television, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are after a great deal of appeals from the opposition we finally have on the agenda a debate on Croatian broadcasting. The discussion brought together five different reports, one four to five opinions of the Croatian government, so it is actually very difficult for those who are watching, and also for those who are watching to see what time the comments are being made and to see who is responsible for what time. Why is that? Let us return to the 2010 law that rested at the political consensus and agreement of the position and opposition in the Croatian Parliament. I say that several times, and I repeat it many times because those reporters without borders also considered it when they talked about improving media freedoms in the Republic of Croatia that today say media freedoms are falling. The 2011 Programme Council report when it was led by Mrs Nada Zgrablic-Rotar in my opinion is as good as the Programme Council we have for 2013 today. No one's ever asked her to speak her mind about it. In the competent ministry, when power was changed after the 2011 parliamentary elections, she was not invited. At the time, the Ministry of Culture was deliberately competent and most in this Croatian Parliament obstructed the filling of the Programme Council because they did not call a tender which they were required under the law. They've also obstructed the completion of the Supervisory Board, and that's true, and I can explain it to you wherever you want and whenever you want. After this, after the crisis in the institution was triggered, the amendments and additions to the law in the seventh month of 2011 were made to the political consensus and to the rule of the majority, so we now have international organisations like we have. These amendments and additions were adopted against the opinion of the European Commission where the European Commission warned that new legislative changes would be worse. It was then called on both HRT and people in the programme council and the supervisory board. I only remind myself that the Supervisory Board was then shortly before, and Mr Orsat Milenić, the current minister, was named for crime, and, behold, two people, one of the two responsible men, precisely for that part of HRT's business, were promoted as soon as the new government arrived, so one became head of the Agency for Investments, and one lady today runs the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, which is where she temporarily came after the famous situation with Mr Vidosevic. So, what happened then in 2011, 2012 when the amendments and the additions of the law convinced us that unquality people and that they had bad TV, were promoted when the new government came. After this has been changed by then, I remind you that the explicit people who are running the Ministry of Culture today have been against the introduction of the third channel on the HRT and against the introduction of the fourth channel. I can quote you statements. Today, when you look at the government's opinion, it is exactly what they praise as the greatest positive step. It wasn't something that the new management or the head director had come up with. It was a legal obligation. In 2011, the first interim contract was established with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which was signed for a period of one year because it was in the year preceding the elections and it was not intended to leave the burden to someone who was coming. Indeed, indeed, when a certain zietnot really takes place at the end of 2012 and there was a stop to the pan in which to prepare a new five-year contract with the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to defend the right to tax on HRT. Is this the only contract giving HRT a chance to collect charges because it is State support for which a certain implementation part of the programme is to be produced in return for HRT? So it's sad that 40 people were replaced in the first run without any explanation, so it's sad that today in the programme council's report when we say that the responsibility of individual editors can't be determined and there are never more, so it's sad that today on HRT, it's sad that certain editors and journalists are getting coefficients and then we have internal petitions that try to stop it, which editors, which journalists, by what criteria, are. By the standard of obedience. That is why it is sad when correspondence is abolished and competitions are re-examined to select new journalists on the ground, according to which criteria. That is why it is sad that we need to see that the programme council report could not get the data even though they were wanted in writing, so it is sad to see that no production obligations have been fulfilled under the drama programme, according to the Croatian audiovisual centre and we are asking whether there are still such obligations that are not being met. Therefore, it is sad that the measurement of ratings was lifted, and then six months later, the measurement of ratings was restored, which is one relevant indicator of whether the public television programme, radio television, is going in the right direction. That is why it is sad that we had to look at the information programme and privatise the public service Mr. Director when the Council's charges of conflict of interest followed, and then the HRT's information programme was used for statements for or against. Is it someone else in the Croatian Parliament or around in Croatian society that has the privilege, we think not. It is therefore sad to know that in early 2013 loans are being raised from hundreds of millions, why? Which should have been used probably for equipment that was planned according to plan and programme in the fifth and sixth months of 2013. Is it done or not done? What's the biggest problem of all is that even today the editorial structure has no responsibility for what it's doing on HRT. How is it possible, Mr. Director, that the editors you have appointed and who are the only ones you can and only you need to talk to and not any of us are assessing that they should report from the Parliament when the entire opposition is looking for a parliamentary break just about HRT. What kind of public service in the information program can find time for the principal to say whether or not it is in a particular conflict of interest and cannot report from the Croatian Parliament when it is required by the complete opposition. There are criteria and equality for all according to public media service. We don't have to be surprised, then, by a respected colleague and colleagues, by what distinguished counterpart Vuksic said was the state broadcasting of HRT. Be careful not to talk about public media services, but the state-run radio TV HRT is being criticised for lack of independence after implementation reforms under the Government of the left centre of Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, by the way, is not interested in the programme, so he is probably not interested in this report, he is probably not interested in a drop in ratings, he is probably not interested in a dozen calls from journalists and journalists from HRT who are looking for literal protection. Whether their shows are being downloaded from the program, whether because they are out of work, as in all correspondence, or because their word and work are not respected. Since a business report for 2013 can happen in the Croatian Parliament, we are discussing there in 2016, we want to warn in advance and warn in advance. The Honorable Mr. Director reported on 31.11. that more than 90 million kunas were achieved in 2013. We call for financial supervision in HRT because if it is true then according to the Financial Obligations Act, payment must be made within 30 days, unless it is specifically contracted, then within 60 days. If it is on 31.11.2013. As Mr. Director reported in 90 million, we ask that financial supervision determine whether all financial obligations are met within 30 days as prescribed by the laws in Article 12 and Article 86c because there is a very easy possibility that we will be able to discuss this only in 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71000	I didn't want to interrupt you, but you didn't discuss the reports on the agenda at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71001	Mr. Chief Director, Madam President of the Programme Council, Mr. Chairman of the Supervisory Board, speaking of reports that are ahead of us, a few things. Thus, the financial consolidation of HRT, the financial consolidation was corrected by the money flow of 190 million kuna, reduced payment from 120 to 34 days to suppliers, reduced external co-operation for 400 external associates, then a decline in ratings was stopped, and around 150 million kuna of tax claims were paid. What we all clearly have to say, what the entire Croatian public, colleagues and colleagues know, HRT is the most useful state aid in the Republic of Croatia with a billion kuna per year from the fee. More than 95% of the population of the Republic of Croatia must pay their fee to HRT. Imagine how much money that is if we compare it to any other segment of our society, not to mention agriculture, not to mention a number of pensioners, not to mention over 380 thousand unemployed. How does it actually save HRT? They say 25 editors have recently received raises, wages have jumped up to 18 thousand kuna. For HRT cleaning services in 9 months last year, he spent 4 million kunas or will implement them. For physical protection because they obviously needed to be protected from someone by a million kunas. I think those far from the government, they got new vehicles as well as the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so I hope we'll get an explanation why they bought a monovolume multi-class monovolume for nearly 3 million kunas or an operational lying medium-class caravan for 4 million kunas. Likewise, why was $2 million paid to the agency that provided temporary employment services? And finally around these numbers where we're going to get a little bit lost, almost 260 million credit debts. Could these figures, for example, have been rerouted to what we were already talking about by the cleaning agency or by the Agency for the Employment of New People? And that, as the director says, is not an abolition, it is a restructuring or rationalisation of correspondence in the Republic of Croatia or correspondence in Sarajevo and Mostar. When we talk about the quality of public service, the quality of public service, colleague Vukšić said earlier, it's not just about ratings, it's about the information program, so when we talk about the information program, so we can tell about some reception time, HTV is the third according to the latest surveys relevant in 2013. New TV and RTL first program, received by time, so informative. HTV has stopped being quoted, and I believe that the saddest thing about it is that all those high-quality people and journalists who exist on HRT. A number of shows have been cancelled, it is unacceptable that you on HRT can no longer hear quality political dialogue, which you cannot hear two-way communication, facing different, other opinions, no, only one-way, all such emissions have been abolished. As for ratings or roaming, I'll tell you a few details. Last year, in 10 months of 49 guests, 38 guests from the Kukuriku coalition, 6 independent apoliticals, 2 from the HDZ and that is the president. Third journal from July to October Kukuriku 19 guesting, HDZ 3, others 67. Is this the ratio of political parties' representation to the Republic of Croatia? Is that what public service must be? What must he do by law at the very least? Public television in European countries is a brand, with us HRT is funded by public money and once again I say, 95% of citizens pay taxes and top public services in Europe with the highest share of payments, and probably with the slightest possibility of talking about politics, a policy that usually affects everything that happens in our country on every citizen's life. No one mentions Croatian radio, colleagues and colleagues, of course television is the most powerful medium yet, but Croatian radio is objective, fast and at a high professional level and it is not okay that nobody talks about Croatian Radio. He was doing something with us and in the car, something we can hear when we need current information unlike HTV. And on behalf of the HDZ Club, I want to commend journalists who are objectively doing their job and trying to maintain a two-way communication, although I think it will be harder for them. HRT is increasingly viewed with a marked tendency to reduce the quality of the program, obvious management problems, and HRT has a crisis of identity. What has been happening on public television lately is sex scandals, shifts, surveillance, mobbing, tracking SMSs, internal communication who communicates with whom via mail, mobing, conflict of interest, which is the context unfortunately talked about when we talk about HRT. Because of all this and a lot of problems, we'll see if the concept can change. The law passed by the ruling coalition gave the director such powers. What's he doing with them? We'll see. And I don't know why we can't discuss the 2013 report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71002	Thank you very much. We talked for an hour and a half about discussing five reports, and now we're not discussing any of them. You and your colleagues discussed the year 2013. But let's go to the replicas. First of all, to the presentation of fellow Mesic. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71003	In your opening speech, you said, in part, that what comments are made on this subject depends on what time we are talking about and on what side. And that's quite true. If we remember and I don't think we should forget and forget in the 1990s, and I said it once, and I'll repeat when the industry is now talking about it again, when HRT called the workers at the time and everyone clapped when one factory collapsed, and at the same time HRT became the only heavy industry. It has been a long time, you say that reporters or journalists without borders, record the worrying situation of freedom of the media in Croatia, which we certainly cannot be completely satisfied with because it stands there but you showed incorrectly because for the past year it improved by 4 index points compared to several years earlier. But when we talk about freedom of the media, as well as about the HRT itself, it should be pointed out that much depends on how much their freedom is in return and on the editors, and not to mention the owners when we talk about some other media that you also talked about or mentioned. And in that sense, it seems to me that the most important thing in this hard work that today's leadership has to do with systematization and that people of journalists who are far less than perhaps editors are missing, unlike editors, are paid roughly equally for an equally specific job.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71004	The reply to the replica Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71005	What the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament would say is that we are not discussing these reports, but we are warning in advance, and you are talking about the 1990s. It's something that in 2010 when we together passed the law in this House of the High I believe we grew above. We've done a few steps back here. That's too bad. That's too bad. If you do not trust us from the opposition, then I will give you the European Commission's letter, which was clearly evident about the amendments and additions to the law where it has declared them much worse and that in terms of democracy and legal freedom on the public media service, they are much worse and read the part that is definitely talking about this again. It should not be burdened with the past, it should look into the future and try to do as best as possible in the future. What you're saying is you're defending something that's inconceivable that you don't just believe, and so you're actually able to accuse reporters without borders to probably copy what HDZ or other colleagues and colleagues from the opposition are telling them. And they speak very clearly that it is political control of the state-run HRT programme, following reforms carried out by the government of Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71006	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71007	Dear counterpart Mesic, when we discussed amendments and additions to the HRT Act, we agreed. That law is a few steps back. I didn't agree with that law that you passed, it was complicated, but it was better. Hand to heart, he was much better than this. This law is bad because it has only one command line, all the powers of the Chief Director. We have suggested that I remind you, the Supervisory Board is elected in the Croatian Parliament, the Supervisory Board elects the Director, the Program Board is elected in the Assembly and the Program Board elects editors. And far greater where I wish this program council had read the editors would have been far more competent people elected to editorial places. However, it should not be forgotten, I was the one and the Croatian Labourists were the ones who asked for changes on HRT because before that was done badly in our opinion. Mr. Novinic didn't do as well as he doesn't now at this agency he went to, worked badly. She was doing a bad job on that board, the V.D. was enough, but we're not happy today either, so I'm clearly saying we're not satisfied. But don't idealize what was before. Yes, Croatian Radio, unfortunately Croatian Radio is also available if you are reading reports that the Programme Council has made a lot of remarks on the Croatian Radio Management because of the non-supervised emissions. Let's just say it's lifted... some shows that shouldn't have been touched because they came so hot. And I don't agree with your colleague, a little ominous, there have been some negative changes on the Croatian Radio, it's been good and it's been bad. And Croatian radio is far, far above professionalism over HRT still, but it touches a sanctuary that should not be touched.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71008	Replication response, Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71009	I agree with the esteemed colleague about this about the Croatian Radio, he will not be a long colleague unfortunately. As you mentioned, programs that are not to be shut down are being abolished, things happen to be united, for example, under one person who is responsible for the drama programme on the radio and the drama programme on TV, we are afraid that we will lose one and the other, as the Programme Council has already warned when it says that the commitments to the production of the drama programme are not fulfilled. Dear colleague, I claim the 2010 law was a significant step towards improving the situation. Of course, everything was not ideal, but there was a certain platform on which it could be built and how it could continue to deal with HRT. In this situation, when the programs are lifted that you no longer have to ask anyone, when we are doing breaks in the Croatian Parliament, we protest such things, and no one reports any of these words, then it is a state of curding steps more backwards than this. And as for what I'm telling you right now, you're a colleague of your own, unfortunately, because you had faith in the situation that you have to apologize in what way you voted in front of the Croatian public in which you voted. I believe if it takes some more time for you to come to the 2010 law on positions represented by HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71010	Marin Jurjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71011	I see you're always talking about how the public hasn't been informed about the breaks. If they were to pass on HDZ breaks, the HRT would actually carry an empty hall all day long. So many breaks you wouldn't let work out of those breaks it's a miracle one. You're a party break, I don't know what to do. As far as these journalists are concerned, without the boundaries you keep mentioning... Reporter without borders, here's a reporter, but let's be border-free reporters or journalists. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Look, it says here that Croatia was in 68th place a few years ago, and now it's 64th. You see, it's called progress for four places, it's not hard to understand and it's not terrible numbers. Secondly, this is about all the media, so there are both print media and normal intermedia, and the printed media is 95% private in Croatia. As far as television is concerned, there are more of them than just HRT, internet portals, etc. So they're talking about the overall situation. And I'd say, we fight here who controls the media, so my people don't control them either, but the media controls us. Is that not clear to you? Now we're talking about the generality of the media, not the HRT. So while we fight there they control us, it's true to you. It's the truth that exists in our dear and beautiful state. I was a member of the HRT council. You see '95. And I know exactly what it looked like, so don't tell me about national television, please. The state television was a flower phiori according to what it was then, and there will be time to talk about HRT, so tell me something that History Chanel broadcasts, gives actually a series of Croatian kings, that HRT recorded it, that there were two extraordinary games and documentary series about Smoja and Tijardović even if they were considered leftists.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71012	Thank you very much. Thank you. Replication response, Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71013	Most of all, we're talking about HRT because it gets over a billion kuna taxpayers' money. When this issue is mentioned by you about other media, the issue of ownership of them, and the rest, I agree that there will be material to discuss. The media doesn't rule our time in HDZ, perhaps yours in the Kukurik coalition. Namely, because you took 90% of the time at the public media service, so nice colleague Glavak told you and quoted that out of the 46 guests in the first 10 months 30 were from the Kukuriku coalition. So I believe that in that sense the media is mastering you because you simply can't get to fill all the media space where people call you. That's number one. Number 2, as far as this growth is concerned, a respected colleague, what you said is true, but it refers to the period before 2010. Since 2010, the law has also been crucial for its chapter on accession to the European Union and has been assessed as an extremely positive step which is the complete documentation of the European Commission. So we were where you said we were on 68th, and then we jumped and now we fell again. That's the problem, pal. It would be good to keep moving forward, not to go forward and fall back.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71014	Damir Rimac, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71015	Dear counterpart Mesic, I think it is the democratic right of every individual to criticise, especially the individual who is in opposition. So I tried to put some hints in your debate that I'd try to answer. So your performance in my humble court was very eloquent, very dramatic as you had at yesterday's session of the Assembly Media and Information Committee. But a good part without a standoff. You asked the question that the director-in-chief of Croatian broadcasting reduced the number of employees or replaced them with 40 without any explanation, 40. The explanation is the restructuring process. I can't help but think that even at yesterday's session of the Committee, we simply tried to direct the debate of a fellow president of the Programme Council as if something was so wrong. So, I wrote down, Mrs. Obuljan said yesterday that she was formed, correct me maybe I misunderstood, that a working group was formed between the Board and the Programme Council which is actually trying to solve the doubts that exist. So it's the first step towards removing what let's so call non-communications that was conditionally said at first existed. You mentioned the criteria and that Croatian broadcasting should be transmitted. Do not deal with editorial policy and as a representative if you have done so as a minister of culture. On the other hand, answer my question about your contribution and whether you feel partly guilty about the crisis of governance, the crisis of control and the general crisis of the work of Croatian radiotelevision which has been found and also in the report we received data from 29 million kuna dubiosis.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71016	Thank you very much. Replication response, Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71017	A colleague of this loss refers to 2012. I told you who I think is responsible. I absolutely consider myself partly responsible for the 2011 situation. I've been appealing to this High House to discuss it for a year and a half. Ask me whatever question you want. As far as the President of the Programme Council is concerned that she is a little bit better known, they would know that she can't be affected, or that I've ever thought of it, and that's why she's been proposed to a place that's very high-quality report and she sees a respected colleague. As for the theater. When we discussed the amendments and the additions to the Law on Theatres, I would prefer that you replicated it in this way. My friend, this may have become his theater here, but above all, the drama and the tragedy that's happening to us. And I'm telling you this part of what I thought I was responsible for. As far as this loss is concerned in 2012, so please forward this question to the culture minister, Mrs Zlatar Violic, who is not here today, regardless of what Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic has signed, in the government's view that he will attend this debate. I hope I've answered your line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71018	Tink Milas, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71019	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Mesic, in your presentation, you referred to the law passed in 2010, i.e. we are talking about the 2011 Report that almost nobody here is talking about. And for what, that was so we forgot when it became a dead letter on paper. And today we're fighting what's happened, or what's happened. And I will just remind you at the time of the adoption of the 2012 law, which the European Commission heard of, we said from the proposings that it was only a little worse since then. We didn't find a similar report in 2012 to listen, we didn't have the right to see business, but we were talking about swamps at the time, I don't know about financial dues that I was among other things what I think he correctly found in the Business Report that in fact the story that is real from 2002 to 2008 is, say, tax debt. And I don't know if tomorrow when we're going to bring back some new report bill that... I don't know three, four or five years after that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the impression is that whoever comes to the power of HRT looks simply like his prey, as an extended arm that I can't correct, manage. I just don't think it's good. And I think that no matter how much we talk about one or the other, who led or who kept the television that we here as the Croatian Parliament must first of all be those who will look for reports and who according to the reports, or according to business and everything that happens, are going to make some sort of assessment and court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71020	Thank you very much. Replication response, Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71021	Dear colleague, I agree with what you've replicated. After all, you have been involved in the work of the body on Croatian Radio and you are well aware of this problem. It is well known to say that current Minister Orsat Milenic also participated in the work of the Supervisory Board for some time. Therefore, it was really trying to respect representatives of different segments of Croatian society, different political rakurs and really wanted to move in the right direction in order to reduce the debts that occurred when they were created which you mentioned correctly. And that, on the basis of some political consensus, this institution would finally start to strengthen and develop. However, it was all overly interrupted, and none of the representatives of the Programme Council then led by Mrs Zgrablic-Rotar, nor did the representatives of the Supervisory Board find it appropriate to ask, call for the discussion that these reports are being analysed and that it is a platform for some new amendments and amendments to the law. But the law was broken by the competent ministry and by the majority in the Assembly because the bodies were not deliberately filled in to trigger the crisis and to say look at this system cannot work and therefore we are forced to go to changes and additions to the law in order to most, not two-thirds, as some colleagues and colleagues have proposed, but usually voted on by the principal director, who was practically given all the powers. It's a problem for colleagues that not only did we not get those reports, but none of the people who put together invited us to an over-conversation and estimated whether they were right or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71022	Cresimir Bubalo Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71023	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Mesic, I thought when you started discussing the HRT report that you would also praise the period especially for the one relating to supervision, for the period from 21 February 2011 to May 2012, because it refers precisely to the period of HDZ time not paying VAT contributions, etc., the principal 44 million kuna, interest 77, had to be recorded 121 million kuna losses but I would separate your exposure into two parts. First of all, this is a financial thing to be said about, and I'm sure they're big dubious and the second one's programmatic. In another, I would even agree with your debate that the software part is under political control. This is best seen from Slavonia and Baranja when we see the former SDP of the now Croatian Labourist and in the signing below is an independent analyst, Jaroslav Pecnik, who talked about the crawling fascism in the Republic of Croatia these days after the referendum, that Croatia is a small and unremarkable and fucked-up nation. Then these are issues to be opened in the Croatian Parliament, whether such a person can be an independent analyst in a signature that is a highly dependent analyst because we know that he was a member of the SDP, today Laburista. Thus, such independent analysts in this programme work are certainly not independent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71024	The reply to the replica Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71025	Dear fellow, I would like to separate your replica into two parts, one part with which I absolutely agree that I simply don't know what key and how they call individual guests on HRT, and we have warned several times and on this other part where you are clearly indicated that these debts that you are talking about occurred in 7 or 8 years before that. So that's what the CEO said in his presentation and it's not a simple problem and he's really looking for both restructuring and great effort. Why did I mention these figures today in the speech is just to warn today what could possibly happen next year or two years after we prevent the creation of new debts, to be consistent and correct in accounting costs, to pay invoices to suppliers or services within 30 days and to clearly show business data and to clearly state why a 120 million kuna loan was raised, for which purpose and until it was to be spent. That is certainly what the Director-General-General will say for 2013 or the chairman of the Supervisory Board who should be very familiar about it. So, we've even raised our hands in some way over the program because I know they won't listen to us, I know they'll still ignore us as opposition because if they don't, they'll be called off, they'll be called off, they'll be replaced, they'll set up someone else who'll just ignore us, and that's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71026	We're still going to hear the replicas of the presentation of our colleague, Sunny Glavak. Here you go, Ante Kulusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71027	My colleague Glavak, you were talking about salary increases, cleaning up new vehicles about three million kunas for one vehicle, the quality of political dialogue, the quality of representation, and you said that in European countries there was a public television brand. What's with us? It's all about us and it's not public television. I think it would be an interest for all of us sitting here and all of us who are involved in politics to make public television objective to all of us, but what my colleague Mesic said can't be public for a reason because whoever runs it will be removed if he doesn't listen to the boss. And I'm just going to say one example of my own experience when they call you on TV, then an hour before the diary says he shoots it, and then he cuts out what they want, and then it turns out you're called to talk about sea fish, and then they shoot it, they get out like you're talking about river fish, it's pathetic, sad and sad, and it's exactly how and why it's happening. But we should all be interested that it is not so, that we are all equally represented, that we can all say what we think and that a billion kuna that goes to Croatian television every year is not going crazy, and this is how unfortunately it goes crazy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71028	Replication response, Sun Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71029	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Kulusic, you're obviously one of those lucky ones who called for HRT. Well, I guess you have to be happy about that fact because you've reached HRT. But what you said wasn't the only one you experienced, and I think it's very dangerous what's going on. So it's inadmissible to call themselves guests, to have a conversation with them, and then to turn it over like it did to some journalist. I think that if something like that happens again and I call here and the President of the Programme Council if there is any such thing as an absolute violation of the journalistic code of all ethical principles and I think it would be a good idea for the Director-General to get acquainted with it. It is simply a precedent, someone was talking about autocensorship, it seems to me that fellow Vuksic is really possible whether journalists or editors who have the opportunity to edit a central information show or a third journal, so the information program around which the most frequently breaks spears when we mention Croatian television are prone to that extent autocensors. It's inadmissible for someone to rat you out the way it suits him. My suggestion is that you no longer go to the shoot, but only if you are invited to visit live because it is only relevant that you can choose there to hear what you really want to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71030	Damir Rimac replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71031	My colleague Glavak, in your debate, you warned of spending on HRT in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. It is very interesting that HDZ's representative warns about the waste ahead of the party that robbed this country, which is a very interesting fact and I think it should be repeated several hundred times in this House to make the public understand it. You also mentioned the crisis of HRT identity, quality political dialogue, no one has been in their debate so far, neither you nor your colleague Mesic, but I replicate to you, touched the debt of 29 million kuna that was not created in one year. The HRT dubiosis project lasts several years. I feel like it's a terrible pressure on the head of HRT as if that man doesn't want to change anything. They are mentioned in your discussions of Pharaoh's authority. Let the man do something. As far as I know, and I was mostly present at the thematic session and at all meetings of the Assembly Committees, whenever the head director of HRT was invited, he came. He's here. So, when business decisions are made in the business world, and HRT, although it belongs to the service of a public institution, or public service, business decisions must be taken immediately and now, and this seems to me to be the principal director of the business.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71032	Replication response, Sun Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71033	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A fellow Roman in which one are you strangers? Are you in power right now? Did you buy new cars for 270 million kuna? Is that you? Is the SDP in power? Don't touch it, don't touch it. We're talking about HRT that gets the biggest support in the Republic of Croatia. I'll tell you again if you don't know, one billion kunas and we all have the right to ask what's going on with that money. My fellow Roman, be careful with your wishes. They can always come true for you. I remind you, is that you in the SDP who bought the cars for 270 million kuna when 380 thousand were unemployed in the Republic of Croatia and wonder how many people have gone to the stock market in the last two years alone or maybe you didn't know?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71034	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71035	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. My colleague Glavak, you spoke about the abolition of correspondence in the Republic of Croatia, I believe you were referring to the abolition of correspondence in BiH, to you for information and the Croatian public, except for the Voice of Homeland and the Voice of Croatia, another show has been produced since 2013, and this is the view over the border of the Croatians in BiH. Most of the time, this show is being served by our correspondents about 80%, and now by shutting down these memoirs, it's probably going to shut down this show. What I want to say is that these recent developments in BiH have, in fact, shown the harmfulness of abolishing these memoirs where HRT actually rented privates so that they can report from Tuzla, Sarajevo, Mostar and other parts of BiH, which is certainly not good. And it is not good that after a census in BiH where there are about 560 thousand Croats, let's say one Al Jazeera, the TV station of Republika Srpska is stronger as HRT shuts down, or its correspondence. Mr. Radman explained that on the boards, I apologize that video journalists are actually going to be introduced, and these video journalists are actually reminding me of those video journalists from the wedding or the funeral.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71036	Replication response, Sun Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71037	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I agree with my colleague Babić with you, you know there will be a public call or I don't know, the principal will say if it is ongoing and we will choose, popularly said, let's say 22... so we could say, people who will therefore work in correspondence that are restructured in the Republic or these two in BiH. True, it was a little uncomfortable to look at the rhythm of information emissions as high-quality reporting for these latest developments in BiH. When will it be able to be realized or will a regional programme actually be able to be implemented in these memoirs that have been abolished? So when we get these people who are actually going to do it, when they're going to get dressed, when they're going to get new equipment, aren't they all actually going to be outside of what the government and HRT contract requires? However, another question is raised to me, and this is why it has actually started to end correspondence, why might it not have started to reduce administrative staff, and why did it actually begin in the environments that, let's say, are away from Zagreb? Zagreb is not Croatia, Zagreb is important, but Zagreb is not Croatia. Zagreb is both Međimurje and Zagorje and Slavonia and everyone has the same right as our Croats in BiH, right to information. We don't really know what's going on with that administrative staff in the business unit, according to some data from 249 and 190, more than 10% behind in the job, I think maybe the chairman of the Supervisory Board will know what I'm talking about, is missing from work and nothing's happening. So maybe we should see what's up with the extra administrative staff.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71038	Josip Boric, replica. I'm a colleague of Boric's.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71039	My colleague Glavak, in your discussion you mentioned that, some representation in information shows, so you said 39 to 2 if I remembered Kukuriku coalition-HDZ well it was... so it was never in that way. Because let's just say it suggests to me that there is no Mr. Radman that Milanovic, with these results of his government, would have been in opposition a long time ago and that's the way to look at the situation on HRT. And the sad thing is that Croats are increasingly watching televisions that don't pay, and the less they're paying for it. And it certainly needs to be changed because the SDP colleagues say we're not letting him work for me. Someone's obviously doing this, and it's not an accident. Because if you watched, say, the central daily in Zagreb on Saturday, there were no protests, no facebook protests, they were in Podgorica and they were in Sarajevo. Then you look at other information shows and say there was a protest in Zagreb. That is what is suggested to Croatian citizens. And they just obviously don't have the right picture of the situation in the Republic of Croatia. I'm the only one who's happy, happy she says nothing lasts without passing. I think it's the same episode that lasts, but I'm sure it'll pass. And when it goes far depends on the gentleman sitting in front of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71040	Sunny Head, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71041	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So, my colleague, Boric, I'll quote you so we talked about Mr. Radman coming to the Croatian Parliament, he comes here and tells us everything he has to say in his nice address to a reference guy. So was the thematic session when we talked about HRT and now I'm going to quote, he said "and its software content meets and are even the volume and value of the public money invested in them". I'll tell you what amount we're talking about. So we're actually still doing well. For the money we give, we still have a great program, so it would turn out if we wanted to relativize some concepts. However, counterpart Boric is even more alarming, viewers are increasingly revealing what is happening on HRT. In 2013 except as they began to look at it less and less, they resented the authenticity of editors and censorship on HTV. It's not something I said, it's relevant research, the Council for Electronic Media, or the Agency for Electronic Media, on the state of affairs, among other things, and on the public service.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71042	I'm setting a break until 3:00, and the first in line will be the Independent Representatives' Club. Thank you. Party at 13.43 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71043	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] It's 3:00. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Grubisic-Kain. Here you go, buddy Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71044	There's no one left in HDZ after a thousand breaks. Except that the time of television transmission was taken away from us, but I am glad that the director is here, so just to remind him that there was once a deal, and here is Mrs Blažević, so it can confirm that all organic laws, laws, when discussing changes to the Constitution, HRT, etc., are passed on for 24 hours, better said how long these discussions last. Secondly, speaking of these cars today, I'm interested in the same thing, so I don't really care about that, but with which cars the head of HRT and his associates came to this Parliament, did he come with his own, did he come with official I don't know this public transport, Audi 6, BMW, Berlin or anything like that. Personally, I find it absolutely inappropriate to rebuild the fleet of any ministry or state as a whole with 271 million kuna at this time. Secondly, I personally think HRT is still the best television. But what I will never accept is that individuals on that television are doing pro bono. And I'm really asking myself what it is now, the same ones who don't work for anything in Istria even when they represent, say, Montegiro, it's our... or funeral home, cemetery, you gentlemen on HRT represent you without a kuna. You know who I'm alluding here and let's not just sell that demagogy. You also gentlemen at HRT know very well that in his time the Prime Minister told the PR agencies in public enterprises and that's where he's going I'd say his persecution from those same PR agencies that used to suck millions out of these public systems, not to say tens of millions of kunas. The PR agencies remained with Istria, Zagreb, local authorities, Istria where with almost 10 million kunas are paid or paid annually, as I say, for the financing of local media. I will repeat myself to Mr. Director, for me personally HRT is the best television, but neither you nor anyone else in these public systems need the services of the PR agency. Someone out there on your TV is working without a kuna, why, just to influence the HRT program. For HRT, it may be irrelevant, for those of us who are in such a position as we are, it is extremely important. HRT must be an independent television, HRT must be an objective television. It must not be either HDZ or SDP, it must not be mine, yours, once worded it must be ours. It is clear that a key document is a report on the work of the Programme Council, however, the position of the media or better said media employees has never been more difficult. These on state television, he's still a sweet mother to those who work on private television. The state, my court, I don't have to be right, it doesn't affect them, but the local self-government, to a large extent, literally leases and I mean the local media, and so many of the HRTs are of blood and meat, because that's not so much criminal charges against editors or editors from HRTs. Of course I don't think HRT can end correspondence and I want to believe that it won't happen, it cost what it cost who, taxpayers through this TV fee. Here I'm looking at these materials, let's say this series of Rest in Peace, 12 episodes, 10.6 million kuna, is it going or not going I don't know, but why am I saying that? Because many here have mentioned some crimes of communism, okay, show all that, absolutely, because I know that at least the people in this House or government have nothing to do with it, at least not this generation of politicians. As for the financial report of HRT, here we see on page 13 that business revenues are in 2011, so we can say in 2012, a billion and 420 million kuna, revenue from the fee of a billion 180 million kuna, revenues from the promotion of 130 million kuna. They are 27 million kunas smaller than they were in 2011. Other business revenues of 107 million kuna, there they are higher somewhere around 28 million kuna than they were in 2011, and financial revenues are also higher by around 10 million kuna, but there is meaning these duties. What's interesting is that the legal fees are 41 million kuna. I said tax revenues are a billion and a hundred million kunas. And that's exactly what he commits. However, I will once again say these legal fees on page 14. 41 million kuna. This is about 3% of the total income of Croatian Radio Television. I'm really asking myself if it's necessary to believe that you have an ongoing legal service that can do these jobs. There is now now now, we can read and the moment that the subscription as a parafiscal imposition decreases by 5%. I think that would be fair, because in a crisis, we all need to bear this burden together in some way. Nor should I say once again buying cars for 271 million kuna, nor should local self-government pay that kind of money to finance the media, nor do I know. Here's the HDZ representative talking about some cars, monovolumes for two, three or five million kunas. Page 16 is about the purchase of 48 million kuna co-production. Well, I guess co-production should be worth more than legal services. As far as the election of this material on Croatian television is concerned, it should be recognised that they are conducted without grudges. The problem is, some people pay the media first and foremost at the local level. I said in my county it's between a million and a half euros a year. And then normally you do 365 days of campaigns for those who pay under quotes. And then TV, local TV turns into home videos, and newspapers turn into photo albums. I'll make that clear. There is no greater influence in Croatia than Croatian radio television and other TV. And that's why I'm really asking you for one fair, one correct reporting, not that the PR agencies, a god-awful rehearsal they're working on on that television can freely influence under quotes of political emissions. Of these billions and 16 million kunas for employee fees, 332 million kuna stands out. It means every fourth circus of kuna and therefore professionality must be condio sin quo non. This clearly needs to be extended to local media, not that they only do business for those who are in power as if they spend their money. They spend all taxpayers' money. If I said a county like mine for prom, that's it. The county singles out 2 and a half million kunas, and cities 10 plus 31 municipalities another 5 million kunas all without a competition then man expects the media to behave responsibly, professionally, and not to lurk at any robbery, either maintaining any option in power. They mean the media must provide everyone with adequate space. If you're being squished or if you're being avoided by individuals, if they don't give you room, then you shouldn't even be entitled to money. I will say once again that Croatian Radio Television is the best television in my court. Far from that, Croatian radio television or people working there are not saints, but no space is as open as we think of it as Croatian broadcasting. On page 15 of this Report, among other things, the revenue from the promotion is mentioned. The proceeds from the promotion, I already mentioned them just before 2012. 16.7% are lower than the revenues made in 2011. Or should I or should I quote, "At the end of 2012, 16.7% less revenue was achieved from the promotion compared to 2011, 1.6% less than the plan." Okay. So it's planned. In 2012, according to the law, the number of minutes available to advertise in prime time, which is the most expensive term and in total income, were reduced with about 60% of all TV revenues. Clearly, under quotes, there was a kind of injustice against Croatian broadcasting, but I said it was compensated on the other hand with a television fee or a subscription. What I also agree with is that the Assembly sessions should be returned to another programme. Those who do not have work on Croatian broadcasting should be hired. I can't, as Branko Vuksic said, have their connections with Croatian Radio Television just over the payroll. Nor can other TV or editors on other TVs work three times more than these on Croatian TV. Yes, once again, broadcast this "crime of Communism" one more time that there are no objections here in the Parliament or I don't know where. Yes, and from Croatian broadcasting, people will continue to go to other TV. They cannot be paid in any way as they are paid or as they are paid on commercial television. The principle of rewarding, perhaps by ratings and the like, may well be a fundamental principle. But I agree, Croatian TV is public television. It's normal out there, but here we have this principle of pay I don't know, let's say some editor can't be higher or bigger than a minister. And what's going to happen? Those best days can go clearly where? To the competition or to the competition. Although probably never this right to work, etc. they will not have as neatly regulated as they have regulated in public companies and in Croatian broadcasting. When we talk about some individuals on HRT, there are several indictments under the allegations of privatisation not of HRT but of some shows, and it certainly ruins the overall credibility of these media. Because of one sentence I said here, and that's why I'm mentioning it a little while ago, for this Assembly speaker that almost every show on HRT can be bought, one four, five years I'm not going to say how much it costs, okay, but I want to say that HRT has to be a medium that has to be kept, that has to protect the freedom of word and not anyone else, especially you, for what's being said here in the House for this payphone because of one or another opinion. And that's why I'm against work, pro bono advisors on HRT. I know it was a normal thing in Croatia, lawyers do pro bono, you can imagine how pro bono works. Pijar experts at HRT work pro bono, ex mayors work pro bono for the largest companies because in this way they help develop local authorities and so on and I see that the only real benefit is these pro bono lawyers, pier experts, mayors or politicians. It simply cannot be or should not be and there is too much in Croatia and it is not good for gentlemen. I dare say that this television is less state television, I'm talking about HRT because it's their report than it's ever been and it's good and this power on HRT has or this power on HRT better said has less influence than it's ever had before. But if it does, at least that influence should be clearly disabled and, as many have said here, I will clearly end up with praises when it comes to Croatian Radio. As for Mr Jurjevic, Mrs Marinović-Anticevic, said that we still have a problem with the freedom of the media, but for the freedom of the media, I am literally quoting what I wrote about a year ago, and it is clear that from 68 places today it is 64 places. When we talk about the media, then we're not just thinking about HRT, we're thinking about all of this. In the first place, one Finland, then the Netherlands, Norway, and in order to achieve this, we will simply need to end up perhaps just another sentence, individuals when we talk about Mirna from Rovinj need to look at the ownership structure and see where these owners are according to the hotels Vis na Vis, Helios farov in Old Town, etc. But about that one other time. Everything about the report is what it is, me, it's a set of dry data and no matter what I think I mean, God forbid if this country were to lose HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71045	Thank you. Moving to replicas, Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71046	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Caine, only briefly since you praised HRT extremely and said that several times it was our best television, I'd say you're looking at it badly, so I don't know what you're drawing those conclusions on. Namely, among others, you mentioned the series Rested in Peace from this report and how much it costs and so on and asked when it would be on the program and I'm just saying, I want to say that this series was long-emissioned, so last year, somewhere at the end of last year, it ended up and rested in peace and that series, so I find it odd that you didn't see it and that you didn't have any information about it. As far as the Croatian Radio is concerned, I certainly agree with you, all the praises. However, what I am noticing, so here I am early this morning a phenomenon that concerns me, more and more journalists who, for example, are completely wrongly emphasising words, so as if they came from the Hungarian speech area, which is something that was the same tradition of Croatian Radio and I believe that will work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71047	Answer, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71048	Well, come on, now I don't know if I've seen this series rest in peace, I'm really interested in these crimes of Communism to see what it is but I know that simply none of this generation had anything to do with it. But what I'm saying is, and I'm going to do it again, HRT is a nice mother to some local television because it just corrupts that media space you for those fees that these people have to get if they want to survive. I don't blame them for anything, but I blame those who simply put room for anyone else on the basis of an alleged political space or rather a market. It's something that's gone too far when it comes to my county, and that's something that one day will have to deal with. In this way, no one can usurp authority or better said power. You can't grant millions of kunas without public tenders, if that's already done, then they have to be responsible enough and give everyone equal or unique space. If that doesn't happen then they themselves participate in something that we can freely undertake under, I don't even know the name of corruption, and I'm calling you from this place in Istria, from Tv Nova via other portals, not to mention their names now, but I can, I can, I can, I can, I can, I can, I can, I can just take care of them that they've gotten caught in because the next day, they might get hit with their heads. It just doesn't work, that way you just can't spend public money. It's not the money of this mayor or the mayor or the mayor or someone the head, it's the money of all taxpayers for whom both the giver and the one who receives it must be held accountable.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71049	Thank you. Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71050	Dear colleague Cain, I'll start from yours, I think it's the last sentence, God forbid we don't have HRT, I couldn't agree more. Croatian television, as well as for example the HNK must be a quality measure, so Croatian television must be a quality measure and a participatory staff, good staff. But I don't agree with you when you said there was an injustice against HRT due to reduced minutes of advertising. What an injustice has been done on BBC because there are no commercials, what injustice has been done to other public televisions that do not have commercials in the reception time, or at the most visible time. In my opinion, HRT is to be run in which there will be no commercials, in which journalists will not scold, write, speak, criticize large tycoons, their firms because editors tell them that their salaries depend on their marketing revenues. Marketing is not only reduced by minutes, at least because of the minutes, because of the dumped prices, and the dumped prices are because the programme is bad, which has crashed the programme for years so that not all the trees and stones on this administration now. This administration has found a state of state, a negative selection of 20 years in which we are politically involved. Prices are down because the shows are less watched, who's going to give a high price on HRT before the diary when there's a diary on the other TV double-sighted? So they have to cut the price of commercials, so they're shrinking and the revenue from commercials, but I say, I'm one of those who advocates that in due course the first commercials are removed from the most visible terms, and then they move away at all and the HRT starts to earn their quality programs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71051	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HGS, Mrs Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71052	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Director, President and President of the Programme, or Supervisory Council, colleagues and colleagues. In this debate, of course, we should deal with what is on HRT today, but throughout this debate, of course, we are also discussing a much broader topic, which is the influence of politics on the media, the desire to influence the media, the relationship between the media and politics, the success and the failure of politics, and the fact that the media and politics love each other in secret, and it is very often public, the fact and the real truth that many politicians want to influence the media, not only the HRT, but not only the television, but the general media, because it, especially the local media, enables them to promote their own programs, but also often the ironing of mistakes, and these are facts that should not be kept silent. Of course there have always been those in politics and today it is so from left and right and from top and bottom that they want to have a special impact on HRT's work. Why? I still hope that no one who works on other televisions will get me wrong, but still today, we are one traditional society and what didn't happen in the journals or the journal, especially the central journal of HRT, as if it hadn't happened. So that pressure will never stop, and that's why I think that today in the assembly we should very much stay away from individual debates about individual cases, about how much we personally or our options were represented in certain shows, how many we were, where we skipped, where we thought we were damaged because it would never stop, because it's always a closed circle. It always seems to each of us and every political party that it is too small and poorly presented in the programmes, especially the HRT. And as for these reports, when you read them all well, when you come back in fact in some and until 2011, when you include it in one single report, which is what the situation on HRT or what was, with all those ups and downs, for example, on the Supervisory Board, on departures, on arrivals, on non-incomes, the collapse of quorums, not convening, in one part of that report, it says that some decisions have been agreed in the homeland of some of the leading people. The problems at the HRT Supervisory Board that have led to even some major affairs and private affairs and love affairs and when you put it all on the cup, you get a good synopsis for a good home soap opera that I hope will never be recorded and ever shown on HRT. What we should be interested in, of course, and what should be at the centre of the focus of this debate is the large revenues of HRT, so I am also talking about a business report of more than billions and 100 million kuna, a reduction in revenues of 16.7%, so in 2012 this revenue was somewhere in 135 million. Also recorded in this report is a large debt as according to the Tax Administration and, of course, the question of where HRT is today in this regard. Is that debt coming back or is it coming back? I'll talk about it a little bit later. The lack of compliance with the audit requirements, inter alia, with the fact that nearly 3 million kunas are spent on services without a public tender or without public tenders. The question we need to discuss and which we really need to open is the restructuring plan. Many governments and the previous government tried to agree with HRT on a surplus restructuring plan. The fact that there are a lot of employees, the fact that there is a clear need to say that there is certainly an extra employee, and when you add to that all those who are not constantly employed, all those who are not employed and do not work or work very little, once a month then we come to the basis for a restructuring plan that will enable HRT to work on the basic Law on HRT because for now it is the only television whose work is placed in the framework of the law on which or around which there is always the opposition. Where? In political space. About this report, Mr. Director, about the business, I have at the beginning a seemingly small remark but important when it comes to such an important house. It is said here in the introduction that the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia has resolved the administration, etc. Therefore, the report coming from such an important house must contain in its introduction the correct name of this Croatian Parliament institution. That's important, this is the Croatian Parliament. This hasn't been a Assembly of the Republic of Croatia for a long time, it may seem to be petty, but this is a history document. And as we expect Croatian journalists and editors to speak in accordance with Croatian and Croatian language standards, then I think that is important and that you will accept that observation. It is also said here that in 2012 there were legal conditions for increasing the fee to 82 kuna that it had not been realised, however increased revenues by 13 million kuna, so the revenues were increased precisely from that basis as it clearly states, and it was always mostly pressure on each government or parliament to increase the amount of the fee that actually the real reasons for the increase in the tax were not available. Because although it hasn't increased revenues have increased by 13 million kuna. As regards the alleged debt to the Tax Administration, negotiations were launched in 2012 with the Tax Administration on the settlement of the large tax debt accumulated between 2002 and 2008. It is true that the debt was accumulated from 2002 to 2008 but it is not true that only 2012 talks on the repayment of the debt began. They started before, and I want to mention that the government sat on top of the 38.5 million kuna of that debt in 2011, 78 million was agreed to be settled by payment, and for 220 million kuna, HRT complained. So I believe Mr. Director will introduce us at the end of this debate to the state of that debt. I may personally be interested in it, because if none of us and any of our grandmothers living in the village, who has a pension, maybe thousands of kuna and owes HRT the fee, of course, will go unpunished in the sense that they will have to pay for it, then we need to know what is wrong with this debt to the Tax Administration or the Ministry of Finance or the State or all of the taxpayers. The expenditure increased in 2012 and I assume that one part of the expenditure on travel costs, i.e. to the costs of external cooperation that have increased significantly and to the costs of the right to display and transfer. That cost has increased almost by 100% that it's related to the transfer amongst other Olympic games, but that's my conclusion because you can't see it here, so here I'm asking you to explain it to us if that's the case. Incomes from the base of billing costs and by the top, here you see they are higher are almost 3 million and 300,000 kunas which clearly says that HRT is successful in this. And it seems to me too much in that year to represent the savings times it's more than a million and 400 thousand kuna. At times when I have to act rationally, of course when we don't have to buy such expensive cars and I get a little scratched by cars, it's absolutely certain that it's important that all institutions owned by the state, and this one is, are rationally spending taxpayers' money. As far as the Supervisory Board's reports are concerned, so these are reports that go back to 2011, and I don't want to talk about it much. I only have one question left, since this Supervisory Board was appointed on 30 November 2012, on 31 December of last year we received a report from the Supervisory Board, so the new elected one, who found that the 2012 report could not yet be made up, so we will only get it. It seems to me that it was enough time, so more than a year to prepare this report of the Supervisory Board for discussion in the Croatian Parliament. So it's just as principled an observation. And as for the Programme Council, or the Programme Council's reports, I think it's really well structured, it also talks about the failures in the information program, about the accumulation of editors, and that's what the president said in the opening letter. In fact, the more bosses do the less responsibility, so it's always like that when you have in the structure a lot of those who should be responsible, in the end, no one is responsible. So in that sense, I think there's really a really, really big space and that the Programme Council worked well during this reporting period. I believe it will be a council that will continue in that direction. In fact, we had in some past periods of the situation that council sessions were actually some small estranged occasions where there was always something going on that was once again taking over the central minutes of the CROAT Journal. I don't think that was good. This style and mode of work, I absolutely like it better. I think it's good, so persistent in silence and peace to work and try to arrange what's best for the program as a whole. Whether or not we have observations, of course we can discuss in another context, but I think it is important to draw from this debate whether the foundations in the work of HRT are such that, at the very least with peace, we can look to the future of this institution that is extremely important, it is of national interest and question whether HRT meets its legal provisions, therefore also in the sense of the drama programme, promoting national values, gender equality, and equality before the law, so ultimately, at the end of the promotion of the highest and greatest constitutional values. I think HRT's about to do just that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71053	Thank you, too. On behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71054	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Chief Director, the President of the Programme Council and the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, dear colleagues and colleagues. With these reports united in one debate, we from the SDSS Club would like to repeat what we have also said about the State Attorney's report, which is that this Assembly should receive this type of report in time because we do not see any reason or justification to wait with reports like this or with discussions on such reports, because this raises unnecessary doubts as to why it is waiting on one side. And on the other hand, the Parliament is being disabled in its basic function, either as founder, or as one who is obliged to monitor the implementation of the programme and, of course, work when it comes to HRT as a public institution, and in that sense, I think it is extremely important that this Assembly from this debate draws a clear conclusion that this practice should no longer be repeated. Another thing I'd like to say about the reports themselves, one of which doesn't have the character of the report, at least there's no form of the report. There is a form of a collection of documents that we MPs and MPs need to read, which so far has not been a common practice to read the records of the Programme Council or any other working body. It's not our responsibility, nor is it something we need. It should be available to anyone who's interested in something like that. But what we as advocates and advocates need is a full report showing the overall programming philosophy and way of working of the Programme Council, the Supervisory Board, but not necessarily the report. And in that sense, we would ask that when reports of this kind are being made in the future for the Croatian Parliament that it does not have this kind of form. As far as the content itself is concerned, it will concern the first order of the Programme Council more than the operation of the HRT. The programme council is composed of respectable individuals, there is no doubt that the composition of the council guarantees or should guarantee very competent and successful work. But from these fragments of the reports we see, it always disagrees with what the composition of this council could give of itself which suggests that the Programme Council actually deals with details sometimes, not programme values and program objectives of HRT. That's where the show is, when it's going to be, why it's not, and so on, I think it's the primary thing of editors and editors. The Programme Council is the primary item of programme values for which this Assembly established the Programme Council. Now let me say a few things about programming values. First in terms of Croatian radio and Croatian television, including the language of this report. He's a disaster. The fact that some people think that it is Croatian, by asking whether it is blistering in the name of "What insolences you" enough Croatian or not, shows no serious concern about the state of Croatian language and language on HRT. You, I don't know why and I don't know how, Mr. Director, you're letting people come to the screen, either as reporters, or as speakeres who don't know the public language that's in our use. Every other reporter and speaker will say workers, politicians with this strange "shu" at the end which is not part of our phonetic system or the phonological system of Croatia or any other language that is common to phonological bases. Why doesn't someone teach them that? Why isn't someone preparing them? Why is it not possible to draw up complete sentences that have all the necessary parts in those who report to and from those who run the show? It's not an impossible job. I don't accuse these girls and young men, women and husbands, but sometimes in what is said very often here, not to the people's regime and not to that non-democracy television, it wasn't possible. There everyone looked what they were supposed to look like and everyone said the way in public space has to be a role model for everyone else, and there's almost no difference here between the language people speak on the street, which journalists sometimes interview or in floods that they sometimes interview and what journalists themselves say. But by reading your report to me, it's no wonder it's like that. And don't be angry, Madam President of the Board, this is nothing personal to you either, Mr. Director, but if I were to evaluate it, and then of course I can't do it here, that I could possibly do it in some other place for which I was paid, the language of this report, he couldn't get a passing grade. This report does not know that there are substitutes in Croatian and that the programming council is being planned for '14. a year to replace with a replacement one, who, one or anything else than it is repeated as if it were people who do not know Croatian. On other subtle differences, I will not talk to subtle elements about it unless some other media portals do so because of profits, Croatian television as a public medium is obliged to preserve Croatian language culture. Not just the so-called. words that will be sufficient to indicate that Croatian, in everything, is in what language is in. Croatian language if it is not kept in what the Croatian language is, and not only in what some think it needs an indicator of Croatianism, it will never preserve it, but it will destroy it as you are destroying it now. One of my colleagues said, as it used to be, too much snooze, that's right, don't get me wrong, but in your text so much pooping that it's unbearable. So that's a value to pay attention to, not just if the title is "What's hurting you?" or "What itches you?" or "What do you like?" whether or not in accordance with Croatian. Of course it is. The question is only the degree of colloquiality that we will have in public speech, but not whether something is Croatian or not. But these other questions in the right sense of that word, therefore eloquence, the excellence of the Programme Council should be devoted to this account. I'm sure you have people who can take care of that. The second question is news. Why Mr. Director most of our news on the Croatian Radio or Croatian TV first starts with a comment, and then we eventually know what happened, where it happened, when it happened, who took part in the event and why it happened. Why it is not possible to answer these five questions first, when, when, where, who and why, and then why, according to the ethics of the journalist, it is not possible to answer these five questions first. It's the other way around. First of all, commentary or home itself or journalists themselves. Can't there be order? Isn't that worse than selling some ideology? Are we ignorant viewers, so first we need someone to tell us that we need to evaluate things, and then what actually happened, which is the state of television, regardless of who the principal is. You inherited it, but it needs to be changed. And by that HRT will be better and different from the others because it is his obligation. I want to know what the position of official television is? But it's always pronounced subtlely in all the serious public, television and media houses. The same goes for the press. Today it's with us so we know what the house is thinking, but not about all things, and that's going to be the third topic. Some things don't comment. When it comes to tolerance, or intolerance, when it comes to prejudice, there is no comment on hatred. It only comes after three, four days if it comes. And recently there was a game between two basketball teams that were perfectly cheered up, as our reporter and companion rightly said, but he's not saying that he cried out, killed a Serb. It also cheered wonderfully in the winning game, but it said "for home ready". Of course, no one noticed it except us who watched. Why? Is that HRT's educational function? It's consistent with the conclusions we had, which is that the games will be interrupted or transferred. If the organisers won't hang up, then the TV will shut down. Or at least television will comment not on courtesy, because it's not a matter of decency. It's polite whether you're digging your nose or not, and whether you say kill someone or not, it's not a matter of decency. I hope we understand each other about this language. Or the question of killing is the question of bonton here and for Croatian television. So I could count here in the last 2013 second month, third month, third month was very rich. Nineteenth, fifteenth, two times seventeenth, two times eighteenth, twenty-two, thirty-oneth, four months several times etc. It's the work of the Program Council, Mrs. Ouljen, because there's no need for me to teach you that. That's your job. These are the fundamental values of the Croatian Constitution. That's not what we're talking about here. In this Report there are no words, as of course when Speaker Ćosic reports also there are no words about what is happening. It's about what's going on. Inappropriate cheerleading. Well, it's not about inappropriate cheerleading. The fourth thing I want to talk about is first of all for you, but also for the Programme Council because it depends on the program, the possibility of realising software content is so-called outsorcing. The magical word of the Croatian reform ventures of the government that I support and which is politically close to me. Well, then whoever put up the pit was fairer than this. As tragic as it is that, in the cave, all of Croatia's political and economic philosophy in the 1990s is, unfortunately, so sophisticated in English and hornabatedly adapted to the needs of our language. Outsorcing also continues the destruction of public institutions and the opening of space for suspicious economic arrangements. What does this mean when it comes to the scientific programme of Croatian television? What does that mean when it comes to Croatian TV's cultural programme? What does that mean when it comes to the entertainment program of Croatian television? What does this mean when it comes to the information programme after the decision to streamline correspondence, which, by the way, has not been used by 50% in their capacities and could have been said for everything we know. Which despite much greater numbers than some commercial television has always been late if not two days, then at least two hours behind them. Why? Is that gonna get rid of it with the outsorcing? He won't. As the issue of hospitals will not be resolved, as the issue of schools will not be resolved, we will simply destroy additional public media services, public hospitals and public schools, destroy their quality, destroy their function and destroy their role. If you can reduce that. Why? Well, it's clear to us that our business world only still understands the state as a milk cow with which it can do a good job. So in mutual business and business, the world doesn't do it exactly like that, and if it does, then the state has to be a double factor that will compensate for the success of business. In order for us not to have a policy of aussification that sounds very good, we are actually left without anything in this country, and then without possibility, without a serious possibility of having a national university, having a national media and having a health care facility that will be available and a school that will be available to people who will not be able to pay for it themselves, but the state is obliged to ensure that they can be made available to them. If we fail to do so, and if we don't stop this kind of policy then I would like to tell my colleagues and colleagues from the SDP a little bit more than he did to his colleagues and colleagues from the HNS, then it will be harder to remember and remember longer, that's what he did to the SDP in the '90s than he did to his privatisation policy, which was the worst we can imagine. And that's why we're from the SDSS Club against it and we ask you to take this as serious objections if you don't want HRT in five years not to be the skeleton someone wants to buy, and that's what we'll be told to the MPs here comes someone who offers salvation to HRT as they offer for other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71055	Thank you. We're moving on to the replicas, Miss twilight, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71056	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, I will look back on this part of your debate on Croatian language on HRT and agree with it. However, I think it should be noted, I'm glad Mr. Director and the other board presidents are here. As far as terminology is concerned, and in particular this applies to people with disabilities. So, back in 2003, the Schengen Declaration but also the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities was adopted by a termologist with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties persistently on HRT but the insistent operators of the show use the wrong terminology and I think it's time to really educate and start using the right terminology. The other thing I noticed was that, I'd call it gender discrimination. It's about the fact that both the leaders and the leaders of the HRT when they represent the professor speak Mrs. Professor, the lady doesn't know the logo, the lady, the lady, the lady, so I think the time has come and a lot of it we're particularly talking about on her parliamentary gender equality committees different reports under one to adopt the termology which is normal. I believe that Croatian journalists are educated and that at least then they should pass education if they are not, and the second is that gender discrimination that respects that too.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71057	Thank you. Next line, Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71058	The Honorable Professors, the work of the Programme Council according to the amendments and additions of the law is in the first order to follow the programme contract with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, on the programme council, the possibility of keeping values, but only after something happens after, any inappropriate statement only after, so only after this law that you have voted together with colleagues from the Kukuriku coalition or amendments to the law. The business of what you are warning of and is rightfully the editor-in-chief who was appointed by the Chief Director, who was voted by this Assembly, in accordance with the law which had been passed by the political consensus. That's his part of the job. The Programme Council can discuss this post-festum, may ask for an indication if the Programme Council knows from which it will ask for an indication, given that we have a unique case that the programme council cannot determine the responsibility of editors because the Media Act has the editor-in-chief and here we have the situation that editorial powers are stored so they have the channels of the editor-in-chief. Fantastic. As far as language analysis is concerned, I can agree, I strongly respect your expertise in this area but then we are obliged to say that in the Croatian Parliament for everything, and perhaps for the other reports we receive in this Croatian Assembly, I cannot remember hearing you talking about it that way. So let's say the government opinion we got on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71059	Here's your answer. Here's your Pupovac buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71060	Dear colleague Mesic, I agree with the good part of what you say in your replica except for one. Care about the programme scheme and the implementation of the programme scheme is certainly the concern of the Programme Council, but not by neglecting software values and public interest. Therefore, if there are a lot of places in the programme council's report in both the records and the summary of the relationship between the Croatian and Croatian Bishopial Conference, then it should probably be about what the issue of the constitutional values of the Republic of Croatia is and what about when it comes to the programme and the implementation of the programme. I don't know anyone who thinks that if I'm not the best at understanding what is said in our language but then I belong to average people who can understand someone who speaks Croatian or who writes in Croatian that they can understand it. But from this text, I'm not quite sure that I understood, so I'd like to be explained, is it true that the religious program is more unique than it is for culture? Sounds amazing to me. But listening to Croatian radio doesn't sound impossible to me. I understand Mr. Director that you're not in a position to do this, I understand that there's a program arranged by a little church, a little service, a little tycoon, a little party that doesn't leave you too much, but we chose you there to take care of the public interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71061	Time. Thank you. Next replica Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71062	Dear fellow Pupovac, inspired by one of your debates several years ago in the Croatian Parliament, I wrote about HRT just one broad analysis entitled "Differences and similarities between commercial and public television", it was just as inspired as this one today. I agree with your debate, before you, I spoke on behalf of the club about the fact that on screens there are leaders who have a dictation of inappropriate HRT inappropriately public media. About that diction you spoke of, I think even of the same man we think of but we will not call you here in the Croatian Parliament, but the criteria of those people who set the leaders of the Diaries are very strange. Croatian language should be kept, Croatian heritage should be preserved, world literary heritage in the drama programme, but this is not happening. Instead of preserving the heritage of artistic values, we meet programs that are not suitable for HRT. And with regard to the tolerance that you're talking about, at the same time those sports leaders who are intolerant of intolerance, those who do not act as we do here in the Parliament agreed. Then it should be called the Minister of the Ministry of Interior who does not interrupt the match when the match is due to be interrupted. Every time any incident happens to me here in the Parliament we argue again.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71063	Thank you. My colleague Pupovac's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71064	I'm sorry I didn't hear your presentation, but I'm glad you're pointing to the same problem that exists when it comes to public media of Croatian TV and Croatian Radio. and this is that from day to day the language of Croatian Radio and Croatian Television is getting worse, both in those who use it in oral form and in those who read it, unfortunately. And that is why more is that the Programme Council, and the Directorate, if necessary, calls for the help of the educational, research institutions in Croatia. I work for such an institution outside this House and there are colleagues who are competent enough, whether on croatistics or on the phonetics that I can do this job. It would be much more cost-effective than this outreach we're talking about that's been in action for a very long time in different forms and visible and invisible. And as for tolerance, unfortunately when God is celebrated in Borovo Selo or in Trpinja there is no missing comment. When an incident occurs in Krka comment is countless. We don't know what happened since all these comments. But when this thing happens with games, continuously, there's no comment in front of the millionth theater.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71065	Time, thank you. Ante Babic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71066	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. What you were talking about is certainly worth a special discussion about language analysis and as an expert on phonetics, and sometimes it bothers me when I hear on Croatian TV Italy instead of Italy, Varazdin instead of Varazdin, and I would not like to hear it on HTV. Certainly this degree of colloquiality in the public space that you were talking about, in fact, the language of the street that comes on television is certainly not good and should be taken into account. However, you spoke further about the news, editing the news, or the journalists themselves, and I thought perhaps you would take advantage of this opportunity to speak to all the Croatian public about the ethical code of the HRT, in particular Article 24, which actually says that the journalist must, on the basis of the essential facts, views and opinions shown, enable the viewer and listener to shape their own views and opinions. At the same time, it is not permitted to mix the form of news or a report with a comment on the subject of a particular public interest, a review or comment in which a journalist can professionally judge the facts, views and opinions but provided that he has previously made a complete and objective statement of all the facts relevant to a topic. And then in the end, of course, you mentioned events that at football matches, alluding perhaps to part of the hate speech present in that public space. I think you'd be credible if you'd combined it with, say, events that happened in Vukovar at that basketball championship, so I think that would look a little different. It's just certainly not good to answer here in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71067	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71068	First of all, when it comes to basketball in Vukovar. If there were no reaction and no prior conviction in which there is no room for us to know what really happened, then my reactions would undoubtedly be very severe. But how does an entire avalanche of comment usually come down to such events, as a rule of judgment, then the basic question for me is, is there room to react to that? So I'd be happy to join you in that. As far as I'm concerned, no matter who we come from, from Croats or Serbs, from any extremists, any kind of hate speech has the same status for me. Whether from the Socialists or from the conservatives, the same status. But what's important is to gain responsibility on HRT when it comes to it, to know what is a statement that is in accordance with the Constitution which is not, which is in accordance with the law which is not, which is for public space and which is not for public space. What belongs to the public language, which does not belong to the public language. And when it comes to the language itself and the ability to communicate itself, because this is not just about language itself, it's about the skills of communication that have been developed in those who do the work, so the degree of development. Unfortunately, neither of them has been developed. Not only for a collokial type of communication, not just for a public type of communication, but unfortunately not for a coloquial type of communication.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71069	Thank you. And the last replica, Davor's Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71070	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Pupovac, I agree with you in the part where you talked about the role of public television in the preservation of culture, the preservation of language, and that today on HTV it fell to very low branches and I would have signed everything you had to say about it. Perhaps you were lucky to expand your exposure to 2014, because it seems to me that the floods of this year, you were talking about journalists who were reporting, perhaps this passage historically, a space of three years in which we are discussing reports good. Too bad it's not a longer period of time, we could talk about the service that Mrs. Jasmina Nikic once conducted when the speech on HTV was a role model, not what we have today. You said this is what this government you support is doing, and in that part I've replicated. This government sent to one of its assistant minister's championships, who for 15 days commented on the same poor literary language that could have invented the game, and then got lost in interpreting whether he was doing it voluntarily or professionally. It may not be the same in these years that we're thinking about. But I'd be more happy if you'd kept talking about the language on public television and condemning fans who are screaming at extremely inappropriate passwords, but it's at all games and at all times. Regardless, don't always take an example when they were yelling at Serbs, take examples when they are yelling against all peoples or other groups because I think that's what's important and what needs to be shown in public service as a protection of the rights of all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71071	Thank you. Answer, here you go, fellow Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71072	Well, first of all, as far as the state of speech culture is concerned, as regards the state of language and communication on Croatian public media. This thing has gone wrong and downhill and started going back and forth for the last three years of my colleague, Mlakar, and not back for the last two years, it's a job that lasts more than 20 decades. And the drastic forms of this we see in the last 10 years when those who still kept the quality of language and the quality of public statements gradually went for the screen or had less and less influence when the process of education and selection took place. So I wouldn't put it on the table of the current government that I support, I wouldn't even put it on the head of the current Administration if it was willing to do something about it. But if he wasn't ready to do something, then I'd put a lot of pressure on him and the Program Council because that's what needs to be stopped. Because this is a shame! This is a shame! People don't know the elemental accent system, people don't know the elemental phonological units within our language, they don't know how to put together a sentence. All of this can be learned in a short time. One who can't do another job. And it's as simple as any other thing. There are people here who used to do this and who represent an example of how it can be done today. And for that reason, and as far as condemning other knives, a wire of silver or killing cargo as far as I'm concerned, it's the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71073	Thank you. And the last replica of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71074	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Pupovac, you have opened a very important topic especially because it is about Croatian broadcasting owned by the state. So, about overcoming prejudice and hatred. I believe that there must be clearly certain rules of conduct in that institution, in any case, from direct transfer to contributions to information emissions, but also to all others. So to express a warrant on how to deal with such situations when hate arises, prejudice. Why? Because this is clearly framed in Article 6. The Croatian Radio Television Act, which says that in the implementation of the HRT programme, it is necessary to contribute to respect and promote fundamental human rights and freedoms, tolerance, understanding, respect and so on. So it's a legal obligation. We cannot discuss anything else, but a legal obligation that all editors and journalists of Croatian broadcasting are obliged to adhere to. But not only when it comes to persuasion, there must be neither prejudice nor hatred nor encouragement, especially in a sophisticated way. As I experienced in a documentary recently on the trail of a completed referendum on marriage, where we had two families seemingly everything was great. One was against, one was for. The one that was for was an ordinary, excellent, beautiful Croatian family with two young spouses, children born naturally And this second one that was against middle-aged people who, after many years, came to their twins with the help of fertilization and, of course, many other circumstances that indicated [[Invader Batinić: Time.]] Sophisticated that this other one is wrong. [[Invader Batinić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71075	My colleague Pupovac's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71076	Dear colleagues Kosor, thank you for reminding you of the provisions of the law which clearly state what the obligations of the Croatian Radio Television are, and thus the obligations of the Programme Council, thereby and the obligations of the Management of the Information Programme and other programmes. The same applies to my colleague Babic, whom I am obliged to thank for quoting the second provision of the law regarding professionality and regarding the obligation to the public, to the viewers and listeners. I don't have anything to add. That's more than clear. And I don't understand, I mean, I understand because unfortunately that's the way it is in other cases. As long as there are values greater than the laws themselves, as long as there are feelings worth more than the laws themselves in this country there will be no law. And as long as Croatian Radio or Croatian Television and Badava professors are taught law at the Faculty of Law and the baddest professors at the Faculty of Philosophy will teach how to write and how to speak unless it has their own price where it should be realized, and these are media houses. But if we're going to destroy universities and turn them over and give them to privates who'll only take care of the money as much as water and if we're going to give the public media to privates, then let's sell it to the state, we're going to take it out. Tomorrow, we can also unsort this Parliament. There must be some who think they can and should do better.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71077	Thank you. Please, colleagues and colleagues, continue the debate. On behalf of the National Minority Club Veljko Kajtazi. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71078	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, respected director with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the National Minorities Club, I would like to refer to the report on the work of the HRT Programme Council and the implementation of the programme principles and obligations of the HRT established by law and contract. I would also like to express my dissatisfaction with the report on the work of the Croatian Supervisory Board. It is not necessary to spend too much time to gain insight into the shortcomings of both the programming and financial nature generated year after year by this public institution financed from the budget and directly by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It is defeating that from year to year HRT despite the large funds it receives generates enormous losses, and compared to 2010 the loss increased by one-off 64% is 3%, it is a total of 28 936 thousand kuna. As a representative of national minorities, I will pay more attention to the programme work of the report, given the importance of the public institution of HRT for members of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. The report for a number of reasons negatively assessed both the Information, Information and Media Committee and the Government of the Republic of Croatia for a number of reasons. The programme commitments in relation to the number of emissions are the annual representation of certain content mainly represented. However, HRT itself sees and acknowledges shortcomings in the level playing field of public interest. Despite meeting the quantitative range of quality public television and radio programs remains questionable. The report finds it difficult to read the extent to which the obligations arising from the HRT Act have been met. If we look at problems from the perspective of national minorities, the situation looks like this. Minorities in the Republic of Croatia are represented on public, TV and radio programmes, given that the debate on HRT as a public house is considered important to deal with the emissions of that institution that are being displayed on the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia. The prism as a show, HRT covers minority content, but it is important that better content be brought closer to the human population and not to the manic population. Such an approach works positively with the co-existence and culture of our country's diversity. If minority programmes only look at minority populations, then they do not really contribute to the co-existence and learning and culture of national minorities. The contributions and news that are presented often are short, outdated and not contentable which I do not consider to contribute to quality information for citizens about the important events of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia which are indeed very large. I also believe that minority content must in no way be limited to two minority emissions of Prizem and Maninian mosaic. Since minorities can also be represented and represented in a different way, the HRT programme, for example, opens up new opportunities to display emissions and documentary character films that could show moments from tradition, culture and other values that bring minority population to the Republic of Croatia. I also believe that it is essential that members of the minority community be involved in the creation of a programme, for example, in making TV attachments and the like. Several remarks are also related to minority content, and this primarily refers to information programmes. When members of national minorities are mentioned in the context of negative events, all members of national minorities shall be stigmatised. For example, news starts with Roma from Karlovac or Čakovec doing some kind of crime while the name and last name of that person is completely irrelevant. In this way we label all members of the community as criminals, which certainly does not contribute to co-existence and better integration in society. Often when I was trying to influence media representatives on increasing the representation of the minority programme, I got the answer that the biggest problem is financial nature. However, it is possible to improve representation without major spending. I believe it is necessary to increase the number of direct transfers of events of importance to national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. Since I come from the Roma community, for example, I can mention the world’s day of memory of the Roma victims of the Holocaust or the world’s day of Roma. The media representation of these events is small while Đurđevdan, which represents a religious holiday, is highly media-accompanied. On the days of these important events, it is also possible to show some documentary about members of the national minority. Such a gesture would mark that day, which would mean a lot to minorities while the majority of the population would become familiar with a different tradition, culture and language. It all contributes to the wealth of our society as a whole. In this way we build more tolerance, more democratic and better society. I may be unnecessarily entering the depth of the problem but I think that the media is very responsible for everything that is happening in our society, so it is very important what kind of program our citizens are looking at and what is most important, what values are being promoted through this programme. The media can significantly contribute to informing citizens about national minorities and to destigating certain values that bind to the minority. I therefore hope that in the next period we will see the progress of the programme on these guidelines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71079	Thank you, too. We have two replicas, Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71080	Dear and esteemed colleague Kajtazi absolutely agrees with you that there should be more programmes related to national minorities on HRT. I have already said in this Croatian Parliament what Mr Tolauer said when he threatened to call on minorities, members of minorities in the Republic of Croatia not to pay a subscription because they systematically ignore their right to HRT to be adequately represented in the programme. However, since you belong to the same party as the culture minister who, as I was informed, signed a programme contract with the government of the Republic of Croatia for a period of five years, you missed the address for appeal and regret. What is stated in the contract is the legal obligation of television and this is all else strictly good will of an editor or editor. If you didn't lobby to get into the program contract but I don't know if it got in or out, you should see, then simply for the next five years it won't be or will be in those percentages as prescribed by the program contract. And that's it. And you can appeal again and again that you are not represented may Mr. Tolauer point to this, I can point out by my colleagues from the SDSS, but it will simply be as it says in the contract. The fact that the contract was so passed, yes, that because it depends on the overpayment regardless of what a fellow Montenegrin climate-headed fellow, but I have to say he's wrong. Let him read the rules on state aid, and he may be more clear about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71081	Answer me, Comrade Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71082	I'm very sorry, first of all, that it wasn't so observed in the past few years. But I deeply believe in the fact that in the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of the National Minorities, we've been trying in every way possible to set it up, I think in these two years. I am deeply convinced that the Minister will just do so and that we will have a certain minute on HRT and that the programme, as I mentioned in my presentation as it is done, has also acknowledged that it will not be at a time when the least majority of the population is watching these shows but that we will get adequate and even earlier years where the national minority programme was in a larger percentage than it is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71083	Thank you. Nenad Stazic vice president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71084	A colleague of Kajtazi speaking about the minority programme you have now come to be a problem, to the core of the problem. What makes public television public television? By fulfilling some of the public functions. Commercial television and national concessions neither have nor need to have emissions for national minorities because it is a public function. Therefore, HRT has the right to collect charges. That he's doing those contents that aren't particularly viewed and that won't attract marketing, but that's why he's got a fee. These public content is too low on HRT. Because what did HRT do? It is involved in a competition with commercial televisions in the commercialisation of the programme in the populists that is being nurtured today in Croatia because being a major populist, you have a longer moment and a better position in daily information shows, regardless of the content of it in the information sense is worthless. Now, if this is not the way it would continue if there is no twist, if it does not come to the understanding of what a public service is, then it is necessary to consider abolishing the fee and everyone on the market under the same conditions, because the only reason for the tax is the public interest the only other reason there is. It does not receive a HRT fee because it is easier for you to do business there or to have 3.5 thousand employees than to perform public service. And if you're going to compete with these, then be in the same position as them. Therefore, it is time for such shows as you Kaitazi warn yourself about to seriously consider in HRT and all the offices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71085	Thank you, too. My colleague Kajtazi's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71086	I wanted to draw attention the same way, I thank you, given that countries in the region when it comes to national minorities have far greater minutes than national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. Some national minorities even have their own television, which, unlike us national minorities, we can't do it yet. I deeply believe that, in due course, they may also have these other national minorities in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71087	Thank you, too. We continue on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club Ivan Racan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71088	My colleagues and colleagues. We are discussing today a series of reports on HRT from 2011 to 2013 with this necessary and short return to history. In 2011, HRT continued a number of negative business years in which it was dealing with losses that did not invest in equipment and modernisation, the programme was losing sights and interpersonal relations and conflicts in Prisavlje were increasingly a subject in various media. Reports by the HRT Supervisory Board for 2011 covering the period from 17 February 2011 to 8 May 2012 have not been adopted by the HRT Supervisory Board itself. This report was written by the chairman of the Supervisory Board at the time, and it cited a fundamental reason for failing to carry out the supervisory board’s functions during that period, obstructions by the HRT itself and the external consultant who simply did not work in a way that could be monitored. It was then a public record of non-public income in non-separated books. So the HRT itself was not able to comply with the applicable HRT Act at the time. This law, which is often mentioned here, is the 2010 law, which was passed by consensus. It was a success, but unfortunately that law led HRT into chaos. I will dare say that there was a consensus on the need to change that law or at least the intensity of the intentions of all political factors that a change of that law was needed to change the situation on HRT, but there were no agreements on the very changes and there were colleagues from HDZ right. In view of the continued financial losses of HRT, the decline in ratings and the generally poor situation in Prisavlje caused by blocked decision-making processes, the current coalition in power has decided to amend the HRT Act with the intention of implementing the house from the crisis. Amendments and additions to the Croatian Parliament's Law on HRT adopted on 6 July 2012. These amendments introduced the function of the Director-General entrusted with HRT management, with reorganising the powers and responsibilities of the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board. The 2012 HRT Business Report recorded a continuation of a series of losses from the new 29 million kunas. In the year before the minus was 26.5 million kuna and that is a string that lasts at this point for 7 years. A series of losses. At the end of 2012, HRT was given to the Director-General and the new Programme Council and the Supervisory Board with a mission to consolidate and restructure HRT. The 2012 Supervisory Board's report contains only a review of the three constitutive sessions and we are finally coming to last 2013. Unfortunately, in this joint debate on the 2013 HRT reports, we only have a report from the Programme Council, and it is incomplete at this point, or the Programme Council has made it compulsory to supplement it in the form of an additional report by the end of the first half of this year. I believe that by then we will also receive a report from the HRT Supervisory Board for 2013, as well as a report on business and we will certainly have another debate on HRT this year. The Programme Council, the current Programme Council, was established on 19 November 2012. In full with members of the order of journalists and employees, it was established on 25 April 2013. The report shows that the Programme Council is very responsible for accessing its work and that it chooses dialogue as an attempt to reach compromise or seek the best solutions to disagree with the directorship instead of conflict and public actions. The Programme Council, as well as HRT itself, has shown positive shifts in relation to the conflicts that were happening on that television until then. I commend such an approach and believe that the best way to develop HRT at this time, and right now is a prerequisite for a successful restructuring process. Open disputes or questions from the Programme Council's report are very few and that's good. These are the plan to meet the legal obligations on HRT programmes by the end of 2014, then meet the law and contract with the Government of defined obligations in the drama programme of HTV and the evaluation of the Programme Council that HRT is late with legally defined payments to the Croatian Audiovisual Centre. There's been a lot of talk about these things here today, but we haven't heard anything concrete from the Program Council or from the director. Are these problems still open, has there been a change since the report was drawn up today. I must say that yesterday, at a meeting of the Committee on Media, Information and Information and the President of the Programme Council and the Director-General made statements, statements, statements and announcements of all readiness to address all outstanding issues in further work. It is again one difference from the situation that existed on HRT before this structure. Some problems in the work of the current Programme Council have been caused by too short deadlines in which key documents and acts have to be adopted, but most of the problems stem from unfortunately years of the devastated house. The Programme Council's report also shows the commitment of this body to fulfilling the public function of HRT, but there's something else I need to say, something more. Croatia is in a difficult economic situation, the crisis has been going on for 5 years now, and socioeconomic conditions in society have led to ease of radicalisation and hurtful attitudes. This hall is not spared either. I believe that both the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board and the Chief Director are aware of the weight of the situation in which HRT was in their mandates and I believe they are doing their job with the best intentions. The Croatian media scene needs a stable and reliable HRT and it is their business and it is still their responsibility. We of the SDP want them to be successful, and we look forward to an updated report from the Programme Council, as well as a report from the Supervisory Board and a report on business in 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71089	Thank you, too. We have one replica. Branko Vuksic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71090	Dear fellow Racan, a very short replica. In fact, I agree with part of your debate when you spoke about the Programme Council and what you noticed I fully agree from these reports and pronounces the President of the Programme Council and today here in the Parliament and yesterday on the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You can see what you said was constructive, that instead of conflict, it offered dialogue and cooperation, which is a perfectly safe solution, and that is how HRT and all segments of the very complex process of creating television should cooperate on... radio-television and let this be an example of the Croatian Radio and the Supervisory Board, and we know that we have had what you said in your presentation from previous periods. The most tensions were actually going from the top of the Board's house when actually the house couldn't function precisely because those who needed the most serious take the job were unserious.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71091	Thank you. My colleague Racan's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71092	Thank you, colleague Vuksic, for this piece of work. I'm going to say a little trivially, but that's the essence of every political process whether it's manageable, whether it's political. And we in the Croatian Parliament would also have to pay a little more attention to bilateral communication, to more understanding and respect. Because it's just amazing that absolutely no one from the opposition has said anything positive in the last 8 years on Croatian television. So it's simply too much to throw with blackness, it's pure foreigning that in this country's political life won't help, nor will it help anyone to do anything on Croatian radio. I repeat, with everything that's been impossible, there's not at least something positive going on right now, given that for years there hasn't even been an attempt to do anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71093	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HSU Club Zeljko Schamper, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71094	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Director, the President of the Programme Council, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, colleagues and colleagues. The economic crisis and frequent administrative changes have made it difficult to realise the programme's tasks and business plans of HRT. It is said at the beginning of the 2012 HRT Business Report. Amendments to the HRT Act, resolution of the HRT Administration, selection of the Director-General, members of the Supervisory Board and the HRT Programme Council marked the operation of the HRT. Programmed in 2012 HRT had two major sports events that could increase ratings, which are summer Olympic games and the European Football Championship. In 2012, two new specialized TV channels HRT 3 and HRT 4. It is estimated that the volume has increased but not the quality of the produced and imitated programme which should be in the interest of the viewer because they expect the Croatian HRT to do so by paying the fee. Regardless of the tax crisis of one billion, eighty million were HRT's main and secure income, the higher it was by 13 million and 1.1% respectively compared to 2011. The structure of incomes and methods of collection shows that a good part of the citizens particularly pensioners find it difficult to reconcile the obligation towards HRT. Nearly 100 million kunas have been collected through the reminders of HRT and lawyers, and 109 million have been collected through the execution. In order to achieve and collect revenue from fees on notices and all the costs of lawyers and executions, as much as 120 million kunas or almost 10% of total revenues were spent. There is also a question of the viability of the controllers where 19 million kuna was spent on income. In some counties there are poor municipalities such as Zrinski Toplovac, where almost one average pension of 1100 kuna is allocated for an annual fee of 960 kuna. Taking into account the gross social product in the Republic of Croatia, the highest tax rate of 80 kuna in Croatia is in relation to the level of charges in other EU countries. Thus, the Republic of Croatia is, with the number of persons with disabilities and at the level of the TV tax, the leading force in the EU. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on HRT is calculated as one and a half percent on the average net salary in the Republic of Croatia from the previous year and it was supposed to be 82 kuna, but the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided not to increase, so it remained 80 kuna. When you look at pensioners' receipts, the average pension of 2266 kuna according to the Pension Insurance Tax Act is 3.6%, the average family pension is 4.3%, and the average pension is almost 6%. These are the main reasons why it has a large number of tasks, because low-income pensioners can't pay for it. Although unemployed and pensioners are in the most difficult situation so far, no one from HRT or from the Supervisory Board who determines the level of the tax, nor from the Ministry of Culture has remembered that a new payment system is proposed suitable for pension benefits from Croatian pensioners. According to the 2011 census, there are a million and 519 000 private households in Croatia, of which 349000 or 23% are exclusively retirement households. It would be normal and fair for only those retirement households in which a single or more pensioner lives one and a half percent of the tax is charged on an average pension which is two and a half times the average salary. With HRT, there is no discount for those whose income price is below the income price, such as for example in the supplementary health insurance policy. Regardless of the principle that the same service must have the same price for all citizens, however, it is high time after five years of crisis for those who have difficulty surviving to abolish or at least reduce this imposition according to their incomes. For such a decision there are other reasons, HRT is no longer the only one or the most watched television to which we paid the fee and considered it normal. For several years, there has been a strong competition of more commercial televisions, which, according to the report in the evenings, had more visibility than HRT. Once the HRT log had ratings and out of 40% today it's only third place with 10%. From 19 to 23 hours on other TVs, women's audiences watch Croatian, Mexican or Turkish shows in the most visible time, while the male part of the theatre is on a dozen sports programs with direct match transfers and all sports. From 7-15 hours of HRT the most watchful are those who are at their homes at the time, and these are the pensioners again, and there the HRT showed its misunderstanding towards this audience population, so in the autumn scheme last year, it shut down one TV show of the Third Age and the same radio show lost its permanent term on Wednesdays. In particular, it is a small-income issue from the promotion where they have collected only 9% of all incomes, which is even 16% less compared to 2011. HRT explains this decline by reducing minutes to advertise prime terms as well as a sensitive reduction in the budget of large advertisers in view of the economic crisis. And perhaps the cause of this type of income's decline and the issue of television viewing. As regards the expenditure side, it is seen that the cost of staff or salaries is spent 33% while 23% of the budget and HRT go to the production of the programme. From the profit and loss account we also see the result of the business of HRT for 2012 where the loss of 29 million kuna is shown. These days, the Ministry of Culture announces a close completion of a media strategy that would primarily focus on raising professional media standards that will not bring new taxes in the form of an increased HRT tax. In an analysis of the media, the EU also puts emphasis on ownership issues and three models of payment of HRT fees will be offered, and we hope that the HSU's proposals will be respected. Finally, something about the supervision of the operation of HRT, where the core operating powers of the supervisory board have been conferred on the supervisory board and, on the basis of the report of the department of internal audit, it was found in November 2011 that it was not possible to carry out the supervision of the legality of the use of the charges and other revenues. Afterwards, in May 2012, the chairman of the Croatian Supervisory Board of the Croatian Parliament found that these shortcomings were not corrected to date. The second meeting of the Supervisory Board concluded in December 2012 on complex issues, accounting separation of public and commercial incomes and public, commercial and joint expenditure. According to the report of the State Audit Office and the assessment of the situation on HRT, there are no accounting methods by which revenue and expenditure are managed transparently. And what to say after the findings of the Supervisory Board on the control of the spending of more than a billion kunas collected and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has warned in its opinion that the need for the implementation of the Croatian HRT restructuring programme is necessary because any delay can further worsen the current weak financial indicators. The pensioners often ask us why we have to pay for them too high a public television fee when in a variety of excellent offers other TVs at least watch HRT because on HRT there are no most important side effects in the world and that is football and it is not even two, three years ago passed on the finals of the Croatian KUP. In particular, the unfunctioning of the internal control system on the basis that neither the Supervisory Board can control the spending of significant resources of HRT duties. For all these reasons, Croatian party representatives will vote according to their conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71095	Thank you, too. We have a replica, Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71096	Dear colleague Schamper, I'd like to refer to two details from your presentation. I would like to explain because HSU has in due time referred to the parliamentary procedure a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on HRT related to the TV subscription. To be perfectly clear, we are not asking even though it once said in the law that someone can free up HRT subscriptions, today it is no longer written, we are simply asking that those who have below the censorship for which they are freed from paying medical supplementary insurance that those who together or independently receive less than that censorship to get their subscription to an average pension. It's not 300,000 retirement homes, it's according to our estimate somewhere around 150 thousand of course and that should prove it. The other thing I want to say to the pensioners is extremely disturbing when the third-age emission scheme is changed, the time of broadcast of the show either on the radio or on television, the content that is being broadcast. We go quite the opposite of, say, Italian public television Rai uno, which to their pensioners, therefore, the leaders of the pensioners etc. It allows them to edit shows because it looks better when an older person talks about an older person a joke or makes a joke than someone does when they're younger, you know. In some ways, by eliminating the older population of them a million and 200 thousand from social life, and we also support the media in some way something that is undesirable and it is ejayism or ageism or impatience towards the elderly and it is not good for Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71097	Thank you. My colleague Schamper's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71098	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Apparently, this is a major problem given the large number of households where mostly singles of 350 thousand retirement households are about 240 thousand are singles where the average pension is below 2000 kuna and for them is 80 kuna too much expenditure. Especially because they believe that they deserve their work to have at least a week’s emissions of an hour, not always something to do quickly because they are the only shows where they can inform themselves about what is going on in the pension system and be satisfied with it. For me, the frat information I've seen here shows the effectiveness of the charge. A large number of fees are collected. For 109 million collected HRTs spent 60 million expenses and a large part of the work carried out are pensioners. And we think it would be fair and fair for the basis for calculating that fee to be an average pension. So some hope also gives us recent media news that the Ministry of Culture is going to propose three tax models, and we hope there might be some improvement for this population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71099	Thank you too, dear colleague. We're going to continue to discuss the club representations. It is up to the HDSSB club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71100	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Radman with the chairman of the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council of Presidents yes. I'll have to, given the length of time I've got, I'm afraid I'll be a little 20 minutes, so maybe I'll just say some things like this a little bit like this, so I'm asking you not to be angry, but I hope for answers. So I'm going to start with 88% of HTV financing from the fee we all pay at the same amount on HTV and those 12% from the marketing program. But it's about 2012 and the deficit of less than 29 million kuna and actually that debt and old debt that comes from time and HDZ is not complete but is about a billion kuna. It's mostly quiet about that. Now that that's the case, then I wonder why in the time of the crisis that we're going through, all HTV buys a series of eighty-years of Igor Mirkovic, which costs a million kuna per episode? So a total of 12 episodes, 12 million kuna. I suppose because you are together Mr. Radman and Mr. Mirkovic shared friends of President Josipovic. Furthermore, 8 correspondence are being put out in the Republic of Croatia, so it is likely that the number of staff who join those who remain in correspondence will be reduced and Croatia will probably see as some like to see from the Zagreb cathedral as much as Croatia sees. Furthermore, how much does it cost to put numbers in parking spaces on HTV? We don't have any information about that, but they've been set up. Furthermore, Vukovar, this is now a programme 18-student national delegation, had a HRT cameraman who followed them from Vukovar hospital to Ovcara. Four tapes of material have been recorded. I'm asking all three of you, where are you telling this material to show that there was one column, not two of them, as you keep saying on HTV, and they don't show those important moments when there was standing and leaving one piece or the beginning of that column in the other direction? 4 tapes are recorded materials, we'd like to see these materials on HTV but they keep in the bunker and they don't show up and that's why it actually objectively happened in Vukovar. What was Mr. HTV's headmaster doing in Vukovar a few days before the 18th of November last year? Why did he go to Vukovar and what were the instructions of HTV's chief director in Vukovar? What was the goal of going away when HTV cameramen were excellent and excellent and should not be able to salt their brains about professional work on HTV? How many people were brought in and employed in HTV during your term of office? Some of them were even fired, some were replaced by other places but the coefficient and wages remained. And these are costs that don't even show up, these are costs that are enormously burdening the HTV budget, how many are there? Furthermore, HTV violated an agreement between the Croatian Bishop's Conference and the HRT. Why, because the religious shows had a share in the content itself and the Croatian Bishop's Conference, it is now gone. It is now regulated exclusively by HTV, without consulting with HBK, although there is a contract and a signed contract between HBK and HTV. Why the purchase of one series of ten episodes of "Heroes of Vukovar" cost 3 million and 600,000 kuna, which was shown several years ago and the second series, which was shown in November last year, so 10 episodes totaled 350 thousand kuna, so 10 times less. So that 350 thousand kuna is and the objective price is actually that. They say it's because this one's already shown on other televisions, so now it's like a duplicate and it's cheaper, but it's good to know everything. Why, why, I ask you, why, at the time of the start of the medical strike, a new Croatian film is being broadcast that may be only half a year old, and now we are watching Kozara and the Battles of Neretvi and Sutjesci, these are great movies from the rakurs and the view of this new leadership of HRT. So why at the beginning of the doctor's strike is shown the film "The Human Vegetarian" and 15 days later the film "The Refugee" with Harrison Ford, in which they are also intertwined by evil doctors. Why is the visit, welcome and visit of Mr Milanovic in the flooded area shown on HTV and in the first news in the central journal, he says the situation is difficult, but not as difficult as in Great Britain. After that, no longer in the news this fact is repeated, it has been erased. Why does HTV show the prime minister who says that Mostar has a binational composition of the population and that there are dangerous demonstrations. Well, it's a good thing he went to Mostar, and we welcome that, too, but the fact that he's being said two-national is also not happening again, and we know that in Mostar there's a transnational composition. I don't know who he forgot about Croats, Serbs or Muslims, Herzegovians, not Bosniaks. So I have a lot of questions. Why no more on HTV on Saturdays TV calendars, why TV calendars are shortened, why is the concept of TV calendars different. Why is the TV calendar different from the radio show happened today. A completely different event, I listen at 6:45 in the morning, it happened today, then I watch a TV calendar that is completely different. Interesting. In the last month, I've been listening exclusively to the revolution against Romanovs where they've been mentioned, I said before here, Leo Trotsky, Stalin, Lenin, Diego Rivera, etc. ... I know why. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71101	Don't suggest, he knows a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71102	I know, I know why. Why isn't there a serial that's recorded, so there's a one called the Crime of Communism? Why instead of this series is aired serial Ruth 66, so the road that connects the East and West coast of the United States, was chosen by Djelo Hadziselimovic. So why do HTV employ staff, not only but only in the best man's, cousin's, then also in the party's shares or participation in the work of the SDP of Croatia. Do you want me to give you examples, names to read here, or should I do it in a replica? Starting with that unfortunate Rogosic, editor of the Sunday Dalmatia, he was not, nor was he, and so on. Why is 30-year-old, with what references and preferences he has been appointed as the main economic strategist and manages with a billion and 300 million kuna of Croatian citizens' money, and we know that at the age of 21 he was a sales adviser in the DTR, in the shirt factory Zagreb which we know how she ended up. Shall we move on? Why did a single mother with special needs kill herself last year? Why is there so much mobbing and cowardice in HTV? Why people glide, why they can't tell why their phones are tapped, their e-mails are read. Officials are listening. They have paid employees who do it, two, on HTV, on the HTV that we pay, which we give 88% of the funds through those 80 kunas that are paid. The one that got kicked out of PGI Holding, so the man found a place at the legalization agency founded by someone else... must have changed the party so he got a job after sending pictures of all the contents that Mrs. Sunny Glavak was talking about, so about those affairs. We know who it's about. So taking care of your party friends is one-of-a-kind on HTV, and that's the program. I said this morning when I gave the replica to Mr. Radman in the opening statement that HTV had actually become a media liberal communist and even Yugoslav gulag. ... Exactly. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And I'll tell you why and I'll raise you why, so laugh, but it won't take long. Every force of time, every force of time, slowly. So, when I started talking about suicide, the sad suicide of a woman, then only that event would be enough for me, Mr. Radman and everyone else, and whose personnel caused the mugging that led to this suicide, and that's all on the Croatian police, and thank God that it's all still in the stage to say some dust came down a little bit on that case. So, personally, I wouldn't have a clear conscience. I would hardly go before this to say, in front of this high house with a case like that. What moves I'd make after that is what I know. Court, let the court go, you have a conscience not a court. So at the end of this TV calendar, one of the editors or journalists of our TV calendars has been replaced. Thank God she found a job, no problem, because quality always surfaces. I'll read you another letter from Mr. Radman from Mr. Dragisa Buha in Republika Srpska. He says it like this. "What should be an objective presentation of historical facts on the TV calendar is an evil sensational hater aggressive and arbitraryly putting hate against everything that has a left idea in the root, anything that is Serbian or Yugoslav, Russian, Italian or Venetian. So, against anything that once threatened Croats or Catholics in distant or near history. The voice of a male speaker beware this is extremely unpleasant and aggressive and male speaker is in a TV calendar uncomfortable even with his voice. All in all instant history at a sensational and intolerable level was made for a deep-seated mountainous Dalmatian-Slavonian province of Herzegovic origin. Watch out for the combination and the lights. After all, watch out for this Josip Jurcevic and his click of historical auditors, whom democratic left-wing and citizen Croatia, as I quote, must not kneel. Do you follow this letter you received from Dragisa Buha? Maybe he's a descendant of Boška Buhe, I don't know but he has the same last name. I'm not gonna do that. I already said the man got a job at the Legalization Agency. They didn't know it was him who did something on Croatian television, so they hired him. Now he's gonna get a third job. He's still running in one place. The labour law. This week we may also have the Labour Act. He is also commented on Croatian television. Commented and critical and a little bit thank God, however, the Socialists and the Labour and Labour Act are their concern would be said so, although not so. But no one says that when we already apply European standards in the Labour Act, when we introduce the Labour Act according to European principles, whether or not the wages will be based on European principles. The workers agree to work according to European principles, the workers of the Labour Act agree only to be paid by Europeans, nothing more. They agree to do it. Is there going to be a salary? That's what you keep your mouth shut about. So let's say that at the end of the day. Yes, after all, the head of the daily referendum, which was attended by a million and 400 thousand citizens, of which nearly a million voted 300, 400 thousand against. I don't know exactly. Don't take my word for it. On the first programme, the main central Croatian television daily declares the referendum homophobic. Now he's not, he's got a reward trip for the head of the information service. About phonetics on Croatian TV when I was listening to one of the talkers the other day, who doesn't know the voice that exists, but is talking about Blanka Vlasic. So she says she's a grasshopper. So save God! You can't listen to that. We who are originally or at least born in dinar areas very well know Mr. Leko knows the difference between us and many others. So, we, uh, we don't give a shit when a woman says anything with an "c." So who put her there? Who set her up as a speaker on Croatian TV? What kind of connections it is, I have to suspect right away that it only means that she's in a relationship, because there's no voice for her. Or she'd better go to Sarajevo. That's where it's gonna fit. I don't know what's going on here, and about the emphasis, on the fact that Zagreb's slang and the emphasis of Zagreb's majority in use is already a normal phenomenon. Or when he says one of the sports commentators says he made no good move. I guess he thinks it's a bad German word, so he says no good. So where's the adjective not good? Well, that's not in Croatian. He's got good and bad, and he's got no good. But with us, it is common for sports journalists on Croatian television to say no good dog towards Modric or I don't know what. That's terrible! That's terrible! Who's setting these people up to work there? Or are they those so-called. cousins, godfathers and party binds. Further Croatian daily, excused journal on Croatian TV, central journal lasts from half 8 to 8. On TV Nova, and I won't mention the name, on one commercial TV starts at 7 and 15 and lasts until 8 and 5 until the Turkish series begins. I'll take a look, just a little bit. I look at the journal on HRT and I switch and the log on that commercial is still going on. How more informative is this show on other television than the censored journal of Croatian television, I say because 40% of the news is more on that other commercial TV than on Croatia's central diary. The show is more informative, it gives far more and better atmosphere to the listener and thank God these days I'm operated so I have to remember at home and lie down and listen and watch that TV or the long-sighted dish and I have a chance to do a lot of things. Mr. Radman, you must be informed of who Marko Franciskovic is and that he is in prison and in psychiatry for six months, when Croatian television and one word said. You know why he's locked up, based on the facebook threats of one minister. Is the facebook virtual therefore medium enough reason to put someone in a fairy tale for six months and about that Croatian television besides all associations and grandmothers of those unfortunate Sanja Sarnakovka who speaks of it never says a word. Well, it would be interesting if you didn't find it interesting because I know why you don't find it interesting but it would be interesting for the Croatian public to hear what it was, why he's in prison, why the one who's propagated the anniversary in irondanjska, Croatia's Alama is closed and not only that but also a number of other things locked up first in prison and then in Popovaca, and we know who's the director of the institution in Popovaca and what it's related to the government of the Republic of Croatia, some members of the government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71103	Dear colleague, time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71104	But I said you should, but that's 15 minutes maybe, 20, and it's a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71105	And if you'll excuse me, I didn't warn you to stick to the subject, so let me tell you why. Can I say that?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71106	C's?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71107	No, we have absolutely two letters and two votes. But I didn't invite you back to the topic because your debate was absolutely more imaginative than all the programs in the Croatian television space. But it wasn't much to do with the material itself. It's not. But that's the possibility of a parliamentary debate, so we won't be making a big deal out of it. Let's go to the replicas, the first replica, the esteemed representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71108	Thank you, Mr. President. I agree with you that the debate of my colleague Grubisic was much more interesting than numerous programmes on HRT. But, of course, there are quality shows and high-quality journalists. But fellow Grubisic, you said to get back on the subject that 8 correspondence was lifted. Unfortunately, Croatian correspondence, including in Metkovic, has been abolished, and it is absolutely certain that the abolitions will not contribute significantly more to reducing the financial losses of HRT and indeed raises the question of what is the cause of such actions and such moves. And on the other hand, I'm interested in selling HRT property. Namely, there are two villas in Dubrovnik, one villa in Cingri is located on TV and the other is a villa I think Banac is the former owner of the Dubrovnik Radio, which is part of the HRT. The announcements are that both villas will be sold and I am really interested, especially in the radio Dubrovnik which played a very important role in the Homeland War, and this building is indeed in some way a symbol and defence of the city of Dubrovnik when we talk about the times of 91st and of the Serb-cetical aggression on the city of Dubrovnik along with the Montenegrin forces. So this building really represents one symbol of defence and dignity, and it was actually the only public institution that the Dubrovnikers had the opportunity to hear. Indeed, the question is raised which are the reasons for the sale of this property, which I again believe will not significantly reduce the loss of HRT and, in particular, the satisfaction or dissatisfaction of the citizens of Dubrovnik will not be reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71109	We will now forgive the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Honored Representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71110	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have raised the rules of procedure because I believe that as President of the Croatian Parliament you should have warned Mr Grubisic not to read us a letter or an e-mail, whatever someone from Republika Srpska sent to Mr. Radman. In fact, we are here in the Croatian Parliament and the fact that someone from Republika Srpska thinks about the HRT programme doesn't have to concern us too much because it doesn't pay even the subscription there, and that's more than the letter Mr Grubisic read insufferable. And secondly, I think that you should have warned him because Mr. Grubisic, of course, violated both the Constitution and several Croatian laws by saying about an NGO and its president, said that there was an unfortunate grandmother, so the association is so called what I think is completely inappropriate in the Croatian Parliament in 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71111	As far as argumenting respected MPs is concerned, it is the choice of MPs and talks about his understanding of how to justify his claims even if they are from other countries, others in the field of science or other media spaces. I wouldn't go into it, it's real, and what you said about the grandmother's association, I really didn't hear that term unhappy. If that is the case, you have really wronged your colleague Grubisic and you deserve a reminder of the speech and qualifications of a civil society. So that's a warning, I agree, and for this I don't accept that it was. And now a respected representative, Boro Grubisic, responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You and Mrs. Kosor comment on me, and if I didn't have the right word, that's really very uncomfortable. But the fact that Mrs. Sarnaka is the president of the B.a.B.E. Association is true. In order for me to say it, be it with or without points, as I would say. So as far as Mr. Matosic and his questions are concerned, he's probably working it out... /The speaker speaks English./...the director of HTV's business with great experience,...so he'll discuss it in order to make HTV do better business. Although on HRT there are very bad business moves that if they were better they could be out without abolishing correspondence and selling property. Namely, the bad business moves of Croatian Radio marketing are now the subject of the 2013 cancellation of the HR Network in 21.55 and 12.55 as well as the quantitative discount on the HR Network, so by abolishing the sponsorships, so by abolishing the sponsorship fee and abolishing sponsorships. This led to the fact that Croatian Radio had less revenue for about 3.5 million kuna in 2013 compared to 2012. So I'm talking about 2012 again so you don't say I'm off topic. And that's what's not good, and I guess that's what it's supposed to be like to make up for something else, and what they say on HTV is selling out Croatian property, then I guess they'll do it, too, I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71113	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Jasen Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71114	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My dear colleague, you are truly and a little inspired, I apologize, Mr. President. ... You mentioned salaries on HRT, you mentioned the situation, so here's how much information I received from insider information that those who are afraid don't dare call from the official phones that very recently paid to editors and journalists at the Information Media Service but not to all but to individuals, and I don't know by what criteria, followed by an internal petition against it and after which it was withdrawn. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It would be very interesting to see what the wages are when we talk about it. As for your beautiful debate and inspired and interesting, which is more interesting than the large number of programmes on HRT, you will not be transferred to a colleague. Therefore, the Croatian public paying the subscription will not be able to see this performance of yours, which has even moved the President of the Parliament so much to say something about it. Since both you and I in this Croatian assembly are working on the principle of let them hear, let's not knock, but we are not always in a position and are not always in a position to hear such debates because it is simply systematically censoring the program, which is what you respected colleagues have warned about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71115	And a response to this replica, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71116	Thank you very much, colleague Mesic. I'm not even trying not to get carried away by HTV better not be on it. But when I was talking about when your government was HDZ about not signing a contract with Slovenia, then nobody in Croatia, nor those commercial or HTV transmitted it. However, Slovenian television has given me a whole 15-minute speech in this Chamber, which is a very great honor that Slovenians have passed on this anti-communication of signing an agreement that will lose some part of the sea with Slovenia, it is quite clear. And as for the different salaries, so it's not Uranilovka like the doctor they all have the same dermatologist and surgeon drawing salary, here on HTV it's obviously a very good example that some have a bit bigger, and some probably a little smaller. I guess she doesn't stick to that demagogue as she was the catchphrase to everyone and not just them, obviously not the different ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71117	Honourable representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71118	You tell a colleague, actually your whole speech was questions because it was one particular dramatic. A thousand why it was. And to that thousand why only one should be given. You're asking why this, why that, why that show was broadcast and why it wasn't. Why this is shown in Vukovar, and why it isn't, and so you've come up with some individual very sensitive things which I don't think is the place or the time to talk about and respect here for Mr. Radman's conscience. I don't think that's good or pretty. We're hosts here, we can get along with someone or not, we can criticize them and suggest everything I think is desirable but deny someone that there may be no court but there's no conscience either. It's not appropriate for us to be here or for our guests here. However, you are absolutely right about the Croatian language and would agree with you and we have been warning for years, and then you certainly read the Vjekoslav Majer, which is included in the famous 5 Centuries of Croatian Literature, which gives an answer to this thousand why. A small poem of children, and with one big message for adults and the world of adults, and especially the narcissistic many in us politicians who do not see their picture on TV and immediately television is not good. And the poem is "Sit the Rabbit in the Coffee and the Newspaper reads and reads it twice in the press, but nowhere on the Rabbit World is a rare one." So here's what's getting us down to. We'd, what would we like to be, editors? If we were editors, as unhappy as we are with television, we set an example... On the one hand, on the other hand, I think television is on the right track to have its own policy and to really be in the service of citizens, not these or those political options. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what I wanted to tell you, if you were an editor, and obviously you'd do it better, or any of the politicians, then believe that there might be more guests in the studio than viewers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71119	Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71120	Dear colleagues, Ingrid, I, therefore, did not perform either in some institutions such as the Croatian Parliament or in another parliament to get on TV in such a large number of videos as many people have seen some of our representatives, not only in the Croatian Parliament. So, as for conscience itself, I just said that, if you listened well to the death of one woman, single mother, employed there in that restaurant on Croatian TV, under the circumstances that occurred, so phone calls, threats etc., so the witnesses say and I have such statements of witnesses that were given to the police, so in any case they would worry everyone. Well, I think you should be concerned about that, too, that you're sensitive to your mother, a single mother with your children, one of which is even here with developmental difficulties. So here I am only appealing to humanity and to the human world and conscience. That I judge someone, so let them judge themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71121	Who am I to judge them?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71122	Who am I to judge?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71123	Yeah. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71124	Well, my colleague Grubisic, after you really do, I have to say a very strange exhibit I've concluded here that Mr. Goran Radman is a worse terrorist than Osama bin Laden and that there's some sort of conspiracy troika in front of me from someone to say communist, liberal, Yugoslav nest. ... No, no, no, this is a nest. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Gulag is something else. He mentioned that syntagma. But indeed everything you said resembles some conspiracy theory and the top conspirators are in Croatian television, here are present gentlemen. And then you're trying to look back here at editorial policy and you're talking about movies. According to you, the screening of the film Ludozhder is a vegetarian within some conspiracy related to certain strikes, etc. I think you're putting an infinitely high-quality actor, Rene Bitorajca, in a situation compared to Harrison Ford, which is just an honor to him. So you're putting him in a position where we have to ask now what this actor is, what that director was going to say. It's an actor. And the one who starred in Metastases of nobody's country, so up to here are the Vegetarian People, I mean in extraordinary films, which, fortunately, Croatian television shows. I don't know where you're from. It bothers you in your TV calendar to mention Trotsky Love... Trotsky without which it's not possible to understand in any way the 20th century, or the 21st century, or what is... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in modern political history, which was killed in Mexico on August 20th of the '40s. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it seems to me that Diego Rivera is not speaking, the greatest muralist. I mean, it's amazing who you've put together. who you've put all of us into terrorists and helpers of these terrorists who have come down on us on TV. [[You think well, then finish.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71125	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71126	Thank you very much, colleague Jurjevic, I'll start at the end, Diego Rivera is not the greatest humanist, according to you is Castro's greatest humanist, that Fidel Castro is, by you the greatest communist, uh, excuse me, humanist, sorry, I was kidnapped. Furthermore, when we talk about your threes, you learned to do threes, work in threes, it's an old-fashioned comfort method. So, I was talking about that Croatian television to say in this composition editorially and the rest trying to change the consciousness of the Croatian people in total. He's trying to impose something I won't say to most Croatian people that he doesn't answer but he has certain objections. I put them in, openly, clear for the Assembly speaker. So I made those remarks. And as for the Bitorian, well, here's the movie Vegetarian Man-eater got an Oscar, so here's the thing, it's a super-important movie. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71127	Thank you, too, distinguished representative of the Sun's Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, a colleague of Grubisic, although you were very inspired, you said, you have again warned about some of the things that we have been questioning first and the thematic session when it comes to Croatian broadcasting and also at numerous board sessions. You have said scary things, I will not repeat them now, it is true that the members of the committee came letters and anonymous and signed about what is being done and how it is on Croatian television about the fear of tracking emails, text messages and other things you mentioned. However, the answer you asked and we asked last year at the 10th month, and so far we have not received an answer to these questions, is how many are actually newly employed on Croatian broadcasting. At the time when Mr. Chief Director spoke at the the thematic session, he was proud to say that he then reduced the number of employees by 25. However, we did not get an answer to the question of how many newly employed people, how many HTVs lost court disputes, how many in all understandable Croatian kunas. And you mentioned some programs, or some programs that more of us and partly touched the program. So that we don't create a program here or that's our role, but I'll just say that the role of HRT is, among other things, educational, so when some childhood songs have begun to recite here that some have already forgotten, and some have not even been born, then I'm just going to paraphrasing something. And that's if you put a bad kid in front of a TV screen to watch a bad TV program won't happen, but that bad kid if he's watching a bad program could get worse.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71129	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71130	It's hard for my colleague Glavak to find a reply to the replica when we actually agree completely in your expression, but here I'm going to quote in terms of staffing on HTV, I have here a quote from Mr. Radman who says in an interview: "We've taken care of the competences of those who will carry our development, that they are not only professionals but also credible to handle people and projects." It was a criterion for judgment, and we know everything about the situation on HTV after this statement. Furthermore, when you talked about the programme itself and that, I have not yet arrived because Mr. Leko interrupted me, the recommendations caused by a show that mentioned Vinko Nikolic, a Croatian poet, a colleague of our parliamentary representative who came from Argentina, returned to Croatia where he was of some estimates, so that I would not say completely to the fascist, the Ustasha, etc., although he was quite something else. But that's how it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71131	The Honorable representative of Đurjica twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71132	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, your debate was really interesting, really with a lot of why there's so much on it. I answered in my replica to correct an incorrect quote, but you corrected it yourself, you said again in one of your answers that it was children with developmental difficulties, not children with special needs. That's exactly what I was pointing to. But I wanted to tell you something else. You mentioned documentary series signed or selected by Mr. Djelo Hadziselimovic. I think they're far the best shows. What you've really criticized, not for quality, maybe at the time when we've seen all these Partisan movies, but really nobody cares about it anymore. There is no educational or any other educational role in life not only for us but for our children. So, and some shows have been cut that have talked about young people who are successful. I don't know exactly what the gentleman's name is, but I know that the young gentleman... he ran it and those shows are gone. And then there was a lot of talk, and thank God it didn't happen, it's half an hour of culture, really on Wednesdays one of the best shows in culture. Well, that's how I'd say yes if something were to be commended today, but let me tell you the same thing. We all pay for it is public television, we don't care at all about the ideological commitment of any editor or anyone else, as neither my ideologically likely interests you nor that editor, but we are interested in concrete real-estate reasoned news. So no one calls anymore, and you said well on HTV 1, so it's not relevant, but unfortunately on one commercial television that we don't pay at all, and most often that news is being watched. That's sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71133	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71134	A colleague of Sumrak, HRT is a public service, therefore a public institution of public, state, national importance. When we talk about the HTV program, then I have a feeling, however anyone realizes, that they are constantly trying to impose a single worldview, and we know that there are more worlds in Croatia. Therefore, cheerleaders perform and the shows mainly in the information section create so that they go for example. films in the film programme, so if Bata Zivojinovic and Ljubisa Samardzic were alive in World War II, the Krauts would have lost the war in two days. It's so much dead, it's terrible. So showing it all is at the end, I don't know what else you wanted to ask me, but I think we agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71135	The objective reality can never be seen from your own backyard. Honorable representative Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71136	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Grubisic, you spoke about shows, films, contributions, documentaries and in fact asked dozens of questions about why and I suppose you expect those answers from Director Goran Radman to do so. Well, here is because of the objectivity, perhaps or unintentional, you didn't mention two cases that happened, which is the abolition of the "Figure of Croatia" for Croats outside Croatia, which is a very important show that no longer exists, and also the cancellation of the 2nd of January this year to Mrs Nadi Prkačin, and it was related to two documentaries "Hov na Gotovina" and "The Honorable Court I am not guilty", and in the resignation, it was that she used unfounded and unauthorized materials from HRT. Although the Ethics Commission unanimously rejected that application, of course she was fired and it was good to have these two cases with those you mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71137	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71138	My colleague Babic, I was very happy to watch the show, so the one that was intended for Croatians abroad, mainly in BiH. It was around 8:00 a.m. on Saturday. Now that I'm here, I've got a Western somewhere a hundred years ago, except it's not a silent movie. And as for Gotovina, General Gotovina, not cash, but Gotovina, I'd like to know again, I have to question again what kind of movie has been prepared for second-degree decisions in The Hague. So, we'd like to know what kind of film that was made by expecting or considering the court decision in The Hague being negative for General Gotovina or bad for General Gotovina, and then being a joint criminal enterprise shown on Croatian television. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71139	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the replicas and the answers to the replica. A colleague of the Hill has given up. And now we're going to go further into the debate by the representatives' clubs. Croatian People's Party club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71140	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Chief Director, President of the Programme Council, Chairman of the Supervisory Board. It is good to see you following this debate in full, because, as you know, the Croatian Parliament discussed several times in 2012 about the situation in Croatia. But here at the plenary session, he's never had a chance to contact you, or consider your reports. When we changed the Law on Croatian Radio Television in 2012, when after these amendments, we decided to appoint the director of HRT at that time, it was certainly not done because the Croatian Parliament had nothing better to do, but it was the result and reaction of the situation in Croatia's radio-television which we had previously assessed very difficult. It is not good when the Croatian Parliament has to deal with public television, nor is it good when other media have to deal with public service, and it is not good when public service has to deal with itself. At that time, it was found that the conditions that we encounter on Croatian broadcasting are poor, that there are markedly impaired inter-human relations on radio, technological lag, inherited and acquired and created years of debt, on the one hand organisational dysfunction, on the other hand and ultimately a bad programme. Bad from what public service is expected to do, bad from what the contract says. At that time, we asked for the restructuring of Croatia's broadcasting, to ensure technological restoration, to employ all available capacities of Croatian broadcasting, to enable staff renewal and education, education, continuous training of staff, to return their own production as a cor business, such as what Croatian Radio Television, especially Croatian Television has been known for decades and that in this tradition, on the model we know, on the knowledge of how, on human resources, on this huge capital that Croatian Radio Television has, that public service is built away from the need that imposes the commercialisation of space because there is a fee that guarantees Croatian radiotelevision business stability. And that through Croatian broadcasting our national interests are also realized by the fact that in our region twenty million people speak or understand the language spoken and created on Croatian broadcasting. And the national interest is that Croatian broadcasting will be a medium through which the values represented by Croatia, a form of Croatian society, will be represented by the political goals of concrete development policy both outside and outside, and will look for allies and those who will respect us. Did we make it? When it's all summed up, it's been almost two years, a year and a half. Meanwhile, the director-in-chief with extremely high powers defined the provisions which we amended the Law on Croatian Television presented to the Croatian Parliament, presented his programme. Right on the trail of this, these need for restructuring, human recovery, technological improvement and the return of so-called. old fame through the production of its own, the highest quality, through the production of one where competition is unable to mate. In those 16 months, how long has it been since the Director General took office, has it brought any quality shifts, trends, changes? It probably is. There's no doubt that we wouldn't be dealing with this 16-month issue of HRT that something's not happening there, that it's some kind of toad, wetlands, where the state of concrete is found, it's probably something going on right now, it's just a question of what. Whether this is seen from these reports in business terms, reorganisation, improvement of human relations, better use of human resources, greater production of programmes, greater impact on public change and so on. The information media service as a new platform or a new matrix on which Croatian IT platforms are developed was presented as a new model that will create a new modern model of information, achieving one of the most important elements of the public service. It was the information service and ms that had the most rotations, shifts in shifts, resignations, departures, arrivals, and after all, we were informed of very fresh, a model that was set to experience its important changes. So, he didn't come to life as he was imagined, he's already being corrected. It's a good thing he's like that, that he's flexible, and what if he were so set up that it's impossible to change, but what's the consequence. Did we get a better information program on HRT? This should primarily be asked by viewers but the fact that this directorship functions in constant tension with the programming council with one thing and other things with the Supervisory Board says that no co-operation has been established, that no co-operation atmosphere has been established. I will be free to claim that the existing composition of the HRT programming council is probably the most competent one so far. For the first time, unlike earlier compositions, they are not burdened by issues which are the area of politicisation, competition, competition, competition around governance because the programme council has been given its position through the last amendments to the law, which is fully focused on assessing the quality of the programme, the fulfillment of the contract between the HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And under these circumstances, the programming council has very serious objections. For a long time, it has been sending very serious messages to the Director-General, asking for certain changes, corrections, that in this report is what the Information Committee also noticed in letters of mass written regardless of both temporary and preliminary but this is a fact. The fact is also that the Supervisory Board has returned four or five times the proposal for a restructuring plan to the Director-General, according to what I see from the notes from these meetings without any closures but even more with a whole series of concrete proposals that should be introduced into that plan. So there's no type caps we don't accept, but we're not going to tell you what we really need, but we're taking this model of action or thinking on the condition that we get rid of it, and that it's going to be more transparent, more concrete, and ultimately more measurable. The government of the Republic of Croatia has accepted the restructuring plan with reservations, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Finance made very extensive remarks on the plan. Therefore, the government which tasked the head director, or HRT, to correct certain things in this restructuring plan within 45 days had a certain critical position. The implementation of the restructuring plan shall be carried out through a specific interested body. If they're satisfied, we've got a government statement. One of the consequences or changes that we received in particular escalated in the second half of last year is unfortunately a permanent topic in the media, the withdrawal of HTV, concrete people, concrete human fates, scandals, objections to the work of superiors, or more overstretched, cancellations, police interventions. People who were engaged in very expensive contracts in the meantime left those positions, with those duties but were all left in a working relationship and on very high, therefore with the same salaries. So one bad habit continued to make all the former advisors highly positioned by salary that mostly do nothing. I'm not sure it's part of the restructuring plan, I hope not, because it's temporary. The reorganisation announced the abolition of small correspondence and correspondence in Sarajevo and Mostar. It is perfectly understandable to me that, for financial technical reasons, the existing model is unsustainable, not only for small but also for large correspondence but whether it's moving from the right end, or on the right side, but I guess it was better to speak now, whether it was actually better to train all those people who are going to take over the function of the correspondent in a new multifunctional way tomorrow, and only then to actually go to actually cut what exists now, and not to announce the collapse of everything with some and sleeps the promise that people who are actually going to replace the functions of these correspondence will be trained. What's that got to do with it? Only people's dissatisfaction, the dissatisfaction of local self-government, the dissatisfaction of a large number of people on the ground who, through these correspondence, are thus delivered with their messages to the public. They're afraid they won't be able to do it in the future. I went to this session this morning, and this debate on my facebook profile opened this topic, and I asked everyone what they think about the HRT program and what would they tell the principal? The comments, the comments, so the people who came forward, are extremely bad. Their estimates are closer to the unit than the two, and with concrete remarks, a whole series of them, I won't mention them, but they rest that the quality they receive for the RTV tax is not adequate, that in many of the commercial providers of similar services they receive more and not pay. On the other hand, those who work directly in the program as leaders, the speaker has a bad diction, speak a bad language, stress poorly, that is something other colleagues mentioned. So that famous school, Mrs. Jasmine's language school, is clearly no longer working. The same way that the Croatian Information Programme is constantly spreading despair, hopelessness, blackness, gurgling, that the trendy messages are being sent, that there is no longer a political interactive programme with different opinions, with discussions in the study, that it is actually being imposed, no matter what, but the opinion of journalists rather than facts. They say it lacks a documentary and educational programme that they claim is what can be called the quality and best quality on HRT. The measure of everything on HRT is and will be the pleasure of the viewer of the program. The program is the most important thing, it's made by living, creative people, it's not created by a direct administration that's been raised there, and it's weakly approached by restructure scissors, it's made by recreationals, people with ideas, people with responsibility and people who know their jobs. It would be good if everything that is done on HRT always had one goal of creating a better programme, building a civil responsible consciousness and creating a better society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71141	Thank you, Your Honor. Now we have one set of replicas. Let's get this straight. Dear Representative Jasen Mesic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71142	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, all those criteria that you have listed that should adorn public media service and which should be a measure of success over the past two years fall. But this is not surprising because we have cut off one of the two main pillars of the public media service by amendments to the 2012 law, and that is what reporters without borders reported. The system used to be much less sensitive to the political influence of choosing the main people, much less today if we had this system, we might as well call the principal on responsibility in some things. After that, after the appointment of V.D., there was one unselective memory of everything that was on the road, changed in two weeks 40 people and all without any criteria. And they've been shared with the people who came at that very moment and in the pre-arranged sprawl. We know exactly the room where those splinters were arranged, and I can tell you later in which room. You have a situation today like you have on HRT, and I'm afraid the situation won't be better, that it's going to be worse and worse, that there's going to be a cancellation, that there's still gonna be people coming to your office looking for protection because of what we've done. We have made such a mistake that will be more difficult to correct in this Croatian Assembly. I just wonder if it'll ever be possible to set a political consensus again or if we'll just have action and reaction?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71143	Thank you very much. Replicate response, Honored Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71144	My colleague Mesic, you and I often agree, but from completely different motives. Well, even now, let's say. You're making some grades that I could sign, but I don't think their cause is the same as the one you think it is. In fact, I really think that we did a great thing that we changed the law in 2012, I really think that we did a great thing that we then appointed the performer who was actually with this team, which you say is a sudden memory, by law we should have appointed the performer of duty, so the law imposed, which brought a completely new spirit. These 40 people created such a synergy force that worked there for months. Therefore, my and your access to this whole thing is completely different. Is it gonna be worse? Listen, who was reading Mesa Selimovic knows well that even worse is worse.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71145	Honorable representative Ante Babic has his two minutes and a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71146	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Holega Beus Richembergh spoke to you in fact about the fact that the viewers will evaluate HTV's work, and also on your facebook profile you said what you said you said was very negatively rated by grade 1 approximately if I heard it well. And then you brought back a little history and you said that law that needed to be passed in 2010, it was passed, but it was brought by consensus then, and in 2012, it didn't happen, and I remember exactly where you so colloquitically defended that law with your hands and feet. Perhaps it would be good to read that stenogram from that time to see what the opposition was and what the opposition pointed to, and this is what is happening today. However, even the Croatian Journalist Society as I recall whose leadership, and we must acknowledge such an ideologically close ruling set on HRT, as well as the current ruling nomenclature in the Republic of Croatia, has observed or regretted that the current Law on HRT may be the worst in the last 20 years because it gives all power on HRT into the hands of a single man. His director, and these bad moves that happen on HRT, we've been testifying for almost six hours today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71147	The reply to the replica is Honored Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71148	Dear colleague, what you say at first glance is like this, and it seems quite true, but you know which longer we remember well what preceded the amendments to the law in 2012. At the time, the general public assessment was that the programme was catastrophic, then the general public assessment was that the current state of play on HTV was unsustainable. It was a rating of people working there both viewers and the entire public. As for the consensus, so you know about the consensus, you have to have the other side's consent so you can call it consensus. In 2012, the HDZ in this issue was so exclusively that it was impossible to reach a consensus because it had held the position or it would remain everything as it is or the consensus is gone, so that's exactly how it was. And the fact that some of the assessments that could have been bad have proved true. Well, you know, it's not very hard to tell when it comes to HRT you only have two options that will be better and it'll be worse. So your options are fifty-fifty to guess.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71149	The Honorable representative of the Sun's Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71150	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, fellow Richembergh, we don't have to divulge and look at a glass ball. You're referring to what happened before the new law was passed, you said that then the general assessment was that the situation on HRT was not good and that it was unsustainable. Well, for the past six hours, I think we've established exactly the same thing. So, I'll remind you, only you were eager to make a difference to the law, but you had your arguments now with a time-out do you really think that the cor business on HTV has not been destroyed, that shutting down correspondence does not mean shutting down the added value of HRT that has to do with commercial publishers or commercial televisions? D but you think that not meeting the criteria of the contract or what was signed by the contract, and constantly warning the Programme Council, and it can't help itself because it's exactly how it defined the law that you're eager to bring, do you really think that's a good way to go? You said something about the restructuring plan, so I'll remind you that the Ministry of Culture made remarks on the 20 pages, the Ministry of Finance made remarks on page 7. So something serious wasn't right here. The government of the Republic of Croatia was also restrained under the restructuring plan. So, I ask you to just tell me what you think about the sentence in the restructuring programme, which is addressed as a business secret, so we probably can't read it, where it's said "in such an environment, political entities in the authorities that have chosen the leadership that suggests and implements the changes themselves can be expected to find themselves in a negative context that will be created in relation to HRT". So politics set us up, we're here, we're sorry if they're going to be in a bit of an awkward situation because we're going to do something wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71151	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is Honored Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71152	You asked me about a specific sentence. I judge it very objectively. If something's changed for the better, and now I'm going to tell you what it is, it means something's still moving. I can agree with you that the situation on HRT is difficult, bad, so we compare with past times. But you know what's changed? If Tomislav Sauha was the head of the Office of Prime Ministers and Mrs Ivana Grljak, the government spokeswoman today called Mr. Špoljar, who I think is being run by IMS, within 48 hours we would have to resign for not having happened to you or Mrs. Banic, who you called on the daily basis of the editors of the HRT daily while you were a spokesperson for the HDZ or spokeswoman of the Croatian Government. That's changed. So nothing could happen to you at that time in a political sense, and to those who accidentally called and influenced what should be published in the HRT Journal, who can visit and who can't, so when you did it it was one pair of sleeves, and when today it occurred to someone to do it his political career would last between 40 and 48 hours, it all depends on how long they managed to get two papers out.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71153	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the respected representative of the Sunchana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71154	Thank you very much, Mr. President, our rules of procedure allow us to call upon him. My colleague Beus was false. Comrade Beus, if you didn't know it was in all the media, Mr. Saucha called himself and threatened the editor on HTV. And as for my career, you may have had to monitor more closely what was going on unless you had some other methods of listening or following HDZ speakers at the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71155	It's a classic abuse of the Rules of Procedure Institute. ... It's a classic, classic example. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Just take it as an example, not a reminder, but enough to take it as an example. He has a respected representative, Stjepan Mesic, who has a new idea of hurting the Rules of Procedure. Jasen Mesic, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71156	Mr. President, Article 238.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71157	Who hurt him?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71158	You, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71159	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71160	Mr. President, you take your right and for your right to be president of this House and president of this House every once in a while to comment on our steps. But if you already have the will to talk about this subject I invite you to give one of the vice presidents to the presidency, to go out for the pay phone so that we can give you a replica of your exposure, which we will certainly monitor with caution. And you keep doing this to us and we don't have a chance to react to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71161	Your Honor, you have injured the Rules of Procedure, you have injured the Rules of Procedure. ... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[You can't hear the intruder.]] This should be a special occasion for warning people whom I consider to respect warnings, rather talking through warning rather than formal warnings. Well, that's not how I told you colleagues a warning, and you did abuse the Rules of Procedure, and that was my duty to say it. So did counterpart Mesic, respected Jasen Mesic, but also fellow Mesic, so did you with the desire to protect your colleague Glavak, and also to point out that I was using an explanation for why I did not give the replica, this one as it is called, injured the Rules of Procedure. So you're not going to decide when I'm going to use the right to give you a warning, or by explaining what happened. Let me do it. And as for my debate, I know when I want to discuss and what I want to discuss and how I want to discuss it too. Thank you for your advice, but I don't see any of my injuries to the Rules of Procedure, but I can see yours, but I'm still not gonna give you a heads-up. Yeah, that's okay, 'cause that's my discretionary right. [[Intruder: It's not right.]] Thank you very much. Let's move on with the replicas, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71162	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, I think, quite the opposite of being in shape today, I don't mind your comments from the post of president. Mr. Beus Richembergh, I fully agree with your evaluation of the programming council that it is competent, thorough. And unlike these two reports we've read about business, actually we're talking about five reports today, people haven't figured out what reports but it doesn't matter, and in the discussions it doesn't really have a discussion, it's just about the program, which is logical because the program isn't right. The program's a lot worse on finance. Although the HTV billion kuna is due. The program council has done its job. The seriousness of the programming council does not give a report but gives that copy of their discussions. There are only a few bizarre things in these discussions, some linguistic ones that don't matter. But it's very important that you fell, you had good wishes, you fell into the law. The law is disastrous, undemocratic. The law gives despotic authority. The law is ten steps back, the law gives everything into the hands of one man. At first, the minister agreed with the concept that I made, the laborers proposed the law and you even agreed, but it doesn't matter because you won't say yes, that's right. In 33 years of journalism, I've been a TV critic for 15 years, I've been on TV for 10 years, so Mrs. Anticevic won't say they'd edit my program. I was the one who was doing it. Unfortunately, I have not heard of most editors from Croatian broadcasting who are not so young. This is the problem of Croatian radio television negative staffing And the thing is, these people then don't know how to choose the talents that Croatian television has. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71163	The reply to the replica is Honored Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71164	Yes, I repeat, I think that the current composition of the programming council is the most competent in the last few and that unlike the previous programming councils where not only bizarrely spoken but foolishly talked, acted, led to good taste, created scandals, this programme council is indeed focused on the programme and on trying to establish permanent communication with the directorship, which, of course, represents the house, or the editorials responsible for the program. To correct what has been observed, that what is not sufficiently respected from the contract is filled in. And I see here a very constructive role of the programming council as I see a constructive role and a supervisory board. And it seems to me that this insistence of the supervisory board that sometimes fuses in some detail testify only that they know their job. Because there's talk about concrete things not selling eggs on the market, but about concrete reports, documents, reviews, plans, responsibilities for business. Just as the HRT Act itself says, where the HRT Supervisory Board is responsible for certain things, so when people sit there, they take it seriously and take it seriously. No one sent them there to shut up and nod their heads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71165	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71166	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, fellow, you're saying that political consensus is a good thing when he has it, when he's in the position of those who insisted on him, asked for it, wanted it. The last time in 2012 it was not and not because HDZ boycotted it, but because you imposed rules on a game that does not time in any democratic country. The rules of the game that speak of such isolation and unilateral law-making surely this HTV is no longer public but has turned into a Kukurik television that represents only the interests of this coalition and no one else. That's how you see it from public appearances, from the invitations of those who visit on TV. You can see from 40 fired who were replaced by similar ones. You can see in that, here's just one example, that one editor who was appointed for the entertainment program spent a million kunas and after the first appearance of his program that program was canceled, no more. This speaks of the expertise, competence, appointment and similarity of those who have come to edit politics, run programs and design programs. It speaks of the fact that unanimity will certainly not pass, as the latest reports of the Programme Council say, which criticises everything that is happening and alluds to the fact that in HTV there is a central committee, not any democratic public television that will benefit citizens, especially small communities, small counties. If restructuring is a matter of shutting down the area of their service, then it's...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71167	Thank you very much. Replicate response, Honored Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71168	Comrade Djakic, I must apologize to you in advance. Namely, I'm a visual guy and I stopped listening to what you're saying after 10 seconds because I came across a picture when you said that this current set that runs the HRT furniture is Kukuriku coalition and that it represents only its political interests. I've seen one picture, and it's that the average voter of the Kukuriku coalition on these words pulls hair out of torment and I can't help it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71169	Dear representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71170	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's my colleague Beus, a bit of a nice subject. Your exposure was as always very structured, very realistic, of course and critical. You've actually shown everything that's written in these reports, but you haven't, in fact no one mentioned one topic today, and that's a children's program. Here we all are either parents or grandmothers, dide, citizens must be interested in exactly the children's program on public television. Here's some research in America showed that the right side of the brain is twice as active as watching television, so the kids are in some state of hypnosis. Therefore, we as a medium can also use television as entertainment on one side for children, but on the other hand, of course as an educational tool. That way we can actually teach kids. Television as a medium also acts on conscience, acts on education. We wonder when the children's shows I see exist, but when the terms are you. Terminations should be seen to be acceptable both to parents and children because all psychologists note that they should be watched together by parents and children. Therefore, we can also have educational parenting programs, quality parenting, and therefore we need to use public television for the benefit of children. I would also mention it here, and it is very often mentioned in the Croatian Parliament when we talk about reports of any guardian for children, whether in the reports of addiction, advertising, television advertising, how negatively they can affect young people. And now here I'm going to use the term beer alcoholism that can almost be used as beer alcoholism, and one of the reasons is...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71171	Time. You have to follow it yourself. Thank you very much. Replicate response, Honored Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71172	Comrade Shimac-Bonačić, I have nothing to argue with in your presentation at all, with everything I agree with. I would even add that the information emissions of HRT should be introduced by that age limit not to 12 but to 18 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71173	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71174	Thank you very much. In their discussion, a colleague, Beus, asked two questions: Did the new law bring something good and whether the program was better? So the new law at least two things should be highlighted, has brought a better and better-quality solution to the formation of two bodies: the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board. That's what I warned you about 5-6 years ago about the necessity of separation and it's good that it happened and it's already visible how positively it affected. What is clearly negative is that the law has led to disproportionate powers and responsibilities of the Director-General. I'm never against authority, but just let them meet the responsibilities. If they were bigger, it just has to be followed by responsibilities. Is the program better, you said that the viewers responded, so you said yourself that their reaction was closer to the unit than the two. But what needs to be pointed out, HRT has no technological crisis, you've also talked about technology, no human potential crisis, no economic impotence crisis. On the contrary, it has technologically powerful, it has so much potential human that it's a real miracle how badly used it is and everything speaks in partnership with others not only. And it has no economic impotence, but it has economic power. But what's up? There's also a crisis of results, and that's visible from the report. He's having a crisis of human relations, he's having a crisis of governance. If we just analyze the work contracts and how much who does and what does, we'll see that they don't match each other. If HRT would use all its human and material potential optimally and in achieving national interests, it would be for Croatia's pride, and so little should be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71175	Thank you, Your Honor. The reply to the replica is Honored Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71176	Especially what you last said is absolutely standing. Namely, Croatian broadcasters' capabilities are so great that without major problems, they can meet the needs of all four channels. And specialized programs, and when you see how many correspondences have sent yearly materials, contributions, and how little part of it has been used, it is especially in the information program one mill from which five quality contributions are very often made because that day something happened that cleaned up all the other events from the field and took up media space. But when you see what is the real capacity and possibilities of people on the ground, especially if someone was working with them and if there was a concept of a regional programme, and it would not only be obtained for local information, if it were a space of affirmation of local Croatia, a concrete man of wonder could be done not for 4 but for 8 channels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71177	Dear Representative Tomislav Zhagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71178	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Beus-Richembergh. My replica refers to that part of your exposure when you claim about the following that the success of television can be measured according to the satisfaction of viewers. I would disagree here especially when we talk about public television, which in the battle with commercial television must certainly not give in, and in this way I will tell more viewers here. When I speak of pleasure, surely the satisfaction of a certain or targeted group of viewers can be. But when we talk about the great pleasure of all the viewers, then it doesn't stand, because something also happens to my colleague, Šimac-Bonačić, about the children. There are various groups in society that can be, because television itself does not require much activity when viewing it, so it often does not have to be in a positive direction. And often educational ones that are suitable for a particular group do not have to cause satisfaction in most viewers. Television, of course, as a technical and technological invention from half the last century and to this day has great implications for society, for everything that's happening around us. The question of how aware we really are of these implications. We know that television has a big impact. What should certainly be pointed out is that the Programme Council is also influencing that the programme itself has that level or that impact on a society that is acceptable, in no way does it do politics. I couldn't agree with most of my grades about how politics put on the main pressure, because that's for sure or at least not how it should be. But I think the emergence of a new media, which is the Internet, is that we're actually facing more and more strangers, and in this direction we're going to see how this is going to happen in the future. And one more sentence about the fee. It might be the best solution for commercial television to be financed by public television on its show and homework. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71179	The reply to the replica is Honored Representative Goran Beus-Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71180	Dear colleague, I don't think we understand each other very well. So when I talk about the satisfaction of the viewers I'm not talking about ratings, about the market sher. So, I'm not talking about being produced and displayed at all costs on Croatian television programs that draw attention to commercial messages. No, I'm talking about the programmes that Croatian broadcasters produce and broadcast must give most viewers satisfaction with their quality, professionalism, currentity and relevance. That's what this is about. The majority of people will be watching some American block buster, and the minority watching some Croatian film production does not mean that Croatian broadcasting has not done its good work by showing the Croatian film product in quality time. It is definitely clear that Croatian broadcasting has both the capacities and opportunities for quality production. And when we talk about people's pleasure, people remember with nostalgia certain times when they could see quality production, for example, in the drama program. I can now list you 10 names of Croatian history that have never been screened on Croatian TV. Can you imagine that Josip Juraj Strossmayer is a key player of a huge era, 60 of the most qualitative years of Croatian civil history that he witnessed from the Ilir movement, until the almost First World War has never been screened as a story and then the most important things happened throughout Europe. That's what I'm talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71181	Thank you very much. We have exhausted a list of registered club representatives, replicas and reply to replicas, club positions. Now we're moving on to an individual debate of deputies over 10 minutes. It's the honorary representative Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71182	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, at the very beginning of this presentation, I would like to say that I believe that the government's opinions on these reports are quite balanced, so that I can agree with what is said in these opinions and I support it, but what bothers me is how long we've been waiting for at least some of these reports to be discussed, here's the sign that my application for discussion on this subject still stands in the name of an individual SDP and I've been out of the party for a very long time. So it seems to me that during today's debate we've heard a whole series of criticisms, and the outpouring of dissatisfaction, as well as the suggestion that public television is not actually public television, that it should be even with commercial television, that there is no subscription and anything like that, but there were very few concrete proposals that this public television should actually be. The fact is that people are unhappy with the public television programme because they pay it expensively and the subscription is really high for people who do not have any basic existential needs, and it is more understandable that their dissatisfaction and that the programme they see is not at the level of public television, that this programme is boring, uninteresting and not attractive, and that I would like to note that there are public televisions that have a program that is not boring, which is not unattractive, and I would point out in the first place the BBC, although, of course, at the very amounts that HTV and BBC cannot compare. I strongly support the idea of public television, and it cannot be compared in any way with commercial television, but I believe that this television, public television, can and must have a better quality program and in terms of the introduction of truly attractive public content, regardless of whether it is educational, documentary, environmental content, information content or content that promotes equality and speak objectively about the position of different minorities or all minorities. Such content, let's face it, are never attractive to a large number of people but would be far more attractive if they were done with more desire to offer quality public content. I will not repeat what has already been said, about chaos, disorganization, sacred cows that are very little or for no business receiving very large salaries or about the injustice of those against those many fees who through the RPO system hold the program on their backs and for very small or poor fees. In this sense, things have not changed, which means that reorganisation and restructuring failed. The problems are also programming nature and the question is whether this is due to apathy, excessive red tape, poor human relations, political or other reasons. I believe that HDZ colleagues are wrong when they claim that public television is influenced or pressured by the government towards creating certain political content. I don't see it, and it seems to me that in this work public television is more objective than it was before but the fact is that what is missing is that there are no quality, political emissions that would encourage dialogue and debate and exchange of views from different political points of view. And I don't think it's good for a society that wants to have developed political pluralism and such shows are certainly missing on our public television. I would like to commend what I think and a normal eco-zon show that was also experiencing its crises, being termologically and programmically populated from the newsroom to the newsroom and having certain personnel problems. Unfortunately, there were also bad examples in other programmes and other shows, strange staff solutions, so journalists who had been dealing with some problem for many years, regardless of whether it was education, environmental protection, minority rights or information programmes, political content was being relocated or removed from the shows they followed or the programmes they otherwise followed. I believe that this is not good and that this does not contribute to the quality of the programme if experienced journalists, journalists who specialize in some topics move from monitoring these topics and bring people who have neither interest nor sensitivity to these issues, it is really not good and it should not continue. Many shows that present content of public interest do not necessarily have to be as boring as I said and not attractive and do not need to spend a lot of money. Changes are possible for a different organisation, quality valorisation of the work of those people who do their job in quality and creatively and by firing those sacred cows who do not work and do not contribute to the quality of the programme but by reducing the administration, by strengthening the programme's potential, by investing in technology and equipment and by implementing the over-plan and the ideas of what public television should be. I don't think public television should compete with commercial television, the role of public television is completely different and has a completely different task. I am convinced that public television can be better and better, but better and better quality, public administration, the whole administration including those of us who are here, we are acting as legislators or legislators. We all need to start cleaning in our backyard, and when we criticize others, we need to look at ourselves in the mirror first and ask ourselves if we are doing a good enough quality and responsible job for which we are well paid. The solution always exists for both television and public administration and the Parliament, and as a representative, I strongly support those solutions and those reforms leading to valorisation of work based on objective work results. The basic prerequisite for any change is the existence of will, in the first part of the political will and every problem has its own solution, but we need to understand that problems simply cannot be solved by those methods that have led to the problem, that is, the beginning of this problem, which is what we seem to be doing year after year, from mandate to mandate, from one report to second, and we need to break that practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71183	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague Mirella Holly. We have replicas of your exposure. Dear Representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71184	I'm glad that distinguished colleague Holly noticed that we waited too long, I wish she had supported us when we warned about it here in the Croatian Parliament. As to whether he agrees with HDZ representatives, he doesn't have to agree with us, let him look at Reporters' reports without borders, there's a very clear record of whether it's better or worse. As for the cutting that occurred on HRT on the amendment of the law in 7 months 2012, counterpart Beus and those who supported that policy so as not to fill the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council and thus directly violated the law and encouraged its collapse by not applying what was written in the law, along with those who were walking, coming and sharing future emissions at the time of the V.D. The directorship of the pure clan's key, that's when all this started on HRT, about which today's Reporters Without Borders.... Because just at that time there was the biggest drop in external production, there was an increase in the coefficients that resulted in a loss of about 20 million kuna, and that ministry, the HNS Ministry, which was hoping that this V.D., V.D., would. The director, who was to become head director of them, take control of the HRT, received a package from the older brother of the SDP and failed. In 2012, the commitments to the Croatian Audiovisual Centre were not respected at all, the coefficients were increased, the financial plan was exceeded by 4% in the latest report, no external production funds were agreed at all, in everything that the demagogues today assure us should be the main function of public television, 40 people were replaced without any criteria overnight. That's where it all started, what it says and the Reporters Without Borders.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71185	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71186	Dear colleague, I couldn't support you in your demands since I don't have a club, so I can't even support it anyway, so if we're already talking about certain techniques, then we have that in mind. I absolutely agree with you that we should have discussed these reports earlier, and I would have just warned that your exposure may give you the impression that honey and milk were on TV before and that everything was absolutely fine, that there was no political pressure. I think it is not a real situation, and that is why at the very end of my presentation, I have warned that I cannot solve problems by applying these methods and those, so I say, solutions that have led to these problems, but that it is necessary to go creatively with a completely different approach, and that means that neither what you did during your mandate, nor what is currently being done for this mandate will lead to solving the problems that have been accumulated and which you have rightly warned about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71187	Thank you very much. New replica of respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71188	Dear colleague Holly, you asked at the very beginning of your presentation what kind of public television should it be? This is defined by the law that HRT needs to do and we also know from the practice of public television in Europe which public television should be, everything that today is not or mostly not, we cannot generalise. But these HRT segments are working, they're good and all we need to do is work them out. But you've set up another thesis, you've been dragging it through your debate the whole time, and that's attractive, it needs to be attractive. What's attractive, and it's not banal and it's not yellow? Now that depends on the creative people who are doing the program, there's more of our competence, we're the ones who discuss the program and say, now it's the creative team on HRT, everything depends on it. Are these creative people the right people they've set up? Do they have visions? Are they talented enough to come up with? The biggest number of shows in the entertainment program are licenses, it's not HRT, I'm sorry, buy brains, there are creative people, but they don't want an opportunity. That's what we've been talking about all along, that's the problem. You said today public television is more objective. She would have said, I dare say, she's more critical of power, now as objectively as it is a very complex term, more critical. No, I agree with you, Zoran Milanovic is not to be called an editor, where he, he doesn't care about that, he doesn't care about much. I'm sure he never called and asked, he shouldn't be looking, he's looking for him, he's hiding from the cameras, so that's not all. However, the fact is that everything depends on the political majority. So that's what every editor knows can be replaced like this. So he, the autocensorship, is very present on HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71189	Honorable representative Mirela Holly, reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71190	When I was talking about more attractive content, I didn't mean commercial content because I think that the role of public television is that it has attractive public content, it means content of public interest, and that's why I was talking about a documentary programme, I was talking about an information programme, I was talking about all those other programs that should actually give public interest, or maintain public interest. And this content can be creatively packaged, so it shows ultimately public television in other countries, and with special satisfaction I would mention a whole series of BBC shows that give real content of public interest, but they present it in a high-quality and attractive way and I don't think it's just about money, but also access to solving or creating certain content. I think that there really are a whole series of high-quality, experienced journalists, editors on HRT and that it is possible on HTV to realize exactly such creative content that will be attractive to a certain number of people, of course not to the extent that attractive commercial content is.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71191	We're continuing the debate. A colleague, Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71192	Very short on some things I haven't talked about on behalf of the club, I hope Mr. Leco won't become the new management advisor. First of all, it is not very little now mentioned in one replica Mr. Mesic Croatian Audiovisual Centre, quite certain that this tape with... should be broken and that the contract should be respected. I don't think we should discuss it anymore. If HRT as a house of great importance in the Republic of Croatia does not respect contracts, then what will respect other citizens of the Republic of Croatia's contracts. One of the very important things about HRT is interference on the coastal and on the islands. I don't know why the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are so disciplined and they keep paying their subscription to HRT and they don't look especially for nice weather, summer months of the HRT programme because they can't watch it. It's not HRT's fault so we know but HRT has this greatest interest above all because before we talked about this preservation of language, culture, heritage of all of it must be protected by its programme of interests of Istria, Dalmatia, Kvarner, the island. You can't see the program there, all those who fly at sea in summer and when they have those antennas to watch these programs know they can't get a signal. One of the Croatian objections that is easy to remove is the fact that the HRT programme does not show that Croatia is in the EU. The EU Parliament's chronicles must be daily, we need to know what they are, we have news from the EU parliament only when a Croatian parliamentarian says something if it is explicit. But let's not talk about it. What is the EU's parliament for? What are individual members of the EU's parliament behind? We must, since we are in a joint association, know what is happening in the member states. Therefore, it is simply not funny but tragic that on HTV it is not possible to know the Dnevnik when I see that foreign policy is part of the EU, then I do not understand something, and often EU member states are mentioned in foreign policy. Before I spoke about journalists, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, the right to be spared from criticism, the least politicians have, that's for sure. At the expense of criticism, neither the judges who are under the glass bell have the right to be spared from criticism nor the journalists, nor the media who agree with the fellow said the media rule over us. Not so, the media is ruling with regard to politicians, and together they are working policies that are not in the interests of the majority. The biggest mistake was moving jobs, it I was saying multiple times outsourcing known it was introducing privatisation to a small door. It's a prank, like a hoax in hospitals, it's a hoax on HRT, you can't tell a co-worker inspiredly about the preservation of language, about the preservation of speech on HTV. You can think that these flying reporters who are going to be Katice for everyone who's going to shoot, hold the microphone, answer, mount up how they're going to look after you. HRT has other tasks that neither New TV nor RTL. Contracts by HRT workers, nothing can be a secret especially when paying for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. There can be no contract on HRT, and we're going to talk seriously on the board, we're going to connect with the other committees, and we're going to propose to amend some laws that, if these laws interfere with you, especially the annexes of the contract. We also told the chairman of the supervisory board at the the thematic session, he promised, nodded then, but from nodding we had nothing further. I think that's underestimating the Croatian Parliament. There were earlier remarks from counterpart Grubisic on the film programme. The HRT film program is a good program. The film program of the 3rd HRT programme is excellent. It's a question of taste. I've been looking at a few of my colleagues, I see everything in their eyes, it's a great program, and now I'm praising him even more because I see these big questionnaires in my head. It's not those movies I'm looking at that you'd say are great, so the 3rd program has found its way. And it's especially good when European films show non-commercial films, that is, HRT's task to raise audiences. My own production was one of the greatest jewels of the former Zagreb television, and I fully agree when Mr. Radman probably accidentally said that he wanted to go back to the 1970s, not by political ideology, but by the fact that they were created, I well-meaningly that as much criticism as there was on his account, that there were series, drama. Think of Monday's drama program on Zagreb TV to get back to those times in the art program, not in ideological certainty. With the powers that the Director-General needs to be able to handle, it needs to be versatile, creative, passionate, visionary, media knowledge, to tell you the truth, I wouldn't know it, all in one person I wouldn't know to be. And I think as soon as I did, it seems to me that fellow Maric was just saying that he was not against authority if the responsibilities were identical to the powers. However, often when we in the Assembly or outside the Parliament, parliamentary deputies criticise not for hurting anyone, I wasn't even at a board meeting that was even prevented, threatened to sue us for having nothing against which it would not happen and that would happen to the owners, representatives of the owners, pardon. The correspondence, correspondence is a dry need, they are worth it if they are rational, can't be one correspondence, whether it's Split, Osijek, Rijeka or any other commercial television that's far more visible. Rationalize but not shut down. Just don't hang up. To rationalize quite safely. I know some correspondence has marketing directors and no marketing. That's what needs to be taken care of. That... I think it went wrong. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In a politicised country, an ideologically divided country like Croatia we have one happiness, Croatian broadcasting has one happiness, then it is a political programme... goods, competitive goods. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What we, Croatian Radio Television is not doing is a pre-election programme that should also be amended legally, allowing us not to have that richet since the presentation on televisions, especially commercial televisions. But I'm sure the political programme can be a competitive commodity. This is where Croatian Radio Television must not lose the battle because for that, none of these segments will compete in the educational programme with Croatian Radio Television, not in children, which I also consider part of the educational programme, will not be in the documentary programme that has started to advance. I said in film, the film program will not compete with Croatian Radio Television Nova TV, RTL, because Croatian TV must have a different programme and I think they do it well on Croatian TV. And the information programme must be the one that, which must be an advantage not possibly in the view, is in the same share as other commercial televisions but in the credibility of citation, in importance, in learning, in opening topics. Some topics have been opened very bravely recently by Croatian Radio Television, I'm afraid, it's my suspicion that it's not a battle against the Kukuriku coalition, planting each other, it's good to know but not to stand on it. Therefore, some journalists have recently discovered the affairs that were otherwise prepaid for either commercial television or written media, Croatia's broadcasting is going as well. All in all, this day-long debate on Croatian broadcasting has brought several very good proposals to me. I disagree, someone said there are no suggestions, there are, all those criticisms that were at the expense of Croatian broadcasting I don't think any of them were mean, I think they were kind and they'll get something out of it. And I thank both the Director and the President of the Council and the Chairman of the Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71193	Replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71194	Thank you very much. My colleague Vukšić, I agree with you that we all spoke, someone more temperate, someone less temperamental, someone perhaps a little sharper and someone less sharp, most of all in order for this public service, Croatian television to give this institution, therefore the program, above all the program, for the program and we pay that subscription, the fee, to get as much quality as possible. But listening to you now and listening to you this morning at 10, 11 o'clock when it was like someone else was talking completely. Namely, you, your rhetoric, are even saying that it's a TV without character. Yeah, and now in this presentation, I hear a whole other story. [[Intruder: Yes.]] Although as far as film performances are concerned on Croatian TV, we know that we are watching these black and white films that we have seen at least 10 times so far, so I don't have the same opinion as you have just said about this film programme, foreign films that have already been shown by who knows how many, even the domestic ones that are shown. So, and really your exposure now and this morning is completely different. I don't know what happened in the meantime.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71195	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71196	First of all, these are two different segments that I've exhibited. I continue to claim that Croatia's radio television is without character. These are the segments where I said, in which I wasn't talking about HAVC, the insertion of the program. I didn't speak to another segment very important, it's staff costs, or production, it's written by workers who are 492 million in production, 344 in 2012, which is an incredible disproportionate, I was talking about good things. In the morning I was saying what was wrong, now I was saying what was worth on Croatian radio because I still disagree that on Croatian radio television nothing is worth anything. Therefore, there are no obstacles to exposure. Croatian broadcasting has lost, it is unscrupulous in the information program, Croatian broadcasting has a white list of those it calls, I don't know, as I said in the morning, whether there is a black list, if there is a white list, there is a black one that is unwritten, but it exists. And that's what I said and I don't deny it. Everything I said in the morning I stick to and nothing in this current debate has been denied what I said in the morning. I've only singled out segments on Croatian television that are good because people who work on Croatian television deserve to work well to hear and praise, in my opinion you don't need it, the same thing about correspondences I've talked about in the morning as I'm saying now, so you get it wrong. And secondly, the temperament in the morning and afternoon, given our age, Mr. Grubisic is not the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71197	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71198	That fellow Vuksic, a faint little inspiration in the afternoon, is logical, but decent criticism is always welcome for well-intentioned people and why not point to something that is visiblely bad and what needs to be fixed. You said we lack information from the European Parliament, from the European Union. So by analysing the accessibility of information to the Croatian man, more information comes from Serbia than from Austria, Italy, Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic combined. And I think more people, if we're part of the European Union, are interested in what's going on in Italy, in Austria than in Serbia, and we're being bombed by what's going on there either in Bulgaria or Romania. But what needs to be really highlighted and let no one feel affected about it, such a report saying professionally, not politically, would not get a passing grade in the first year for seminar work. And Mr. Radman, who prepared this for you, he deserves a shift because he doesn't know how to do it. You didn't put it together, but it's professional service, so there's so much HRT potential to make a top-notch report. This is a little underpriced and people like that don't know how to do their job. There are people who know, there are people who have more potential. When it comes to deadlines, it is irresponsible for anyone in the Croatian Parliament to submit a report for the previous year later than 31 May of the current year and I believe that from today on, it will be a good practice. Whoever submits the report after 31 May is launched an initiative to replace those who submit reports because he does not do his job responsibly. From this day forward to take such a stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71199	Thank you very much. Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71200	Dear colleague Maric, I agree. Reports that do not arrive on time should be replaced, but should also be replaced by one who does not discuss those reports. And how do we do that when most of them are? Because Mr. Bajic's report came in time. Why isn't it put in because of the calculations of Mr Milanovic. He wants to be replaced, he won't be replaced. Who's going to who? Looks like Mr. Bajic will sooner. As far as information is concerned, yes, we need to know how Hungarians, who are workers' rights in Belgium, who are workers' rights in the Netherlands, how Austrians do, what about agriculture in those countries. So we need to know that citizens who pay TV subscription would have information. We don't have any information, nothing at all, but unfortunately we don't have any information from Knin unless it's an accident. It's about Sisko and these parts when they're heard, only when the flood is, when they're flooded. We don't have normal information. They say it doesn't go to the First Journal, which is why we don't, we have four programs. So give me some programs in which at some point it's not when I'm at work that I can watch the information program. Why wouldn't there be 10 information from different Croatian regions? It's a question of concepts that the creative team can agree on and disagree with, so we don't interfere with editorial policy. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71201	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71202	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Vuksic, you were talking about shutting down correspondence, about how it's not good. And of course, it was opposed by all Croatian mayors, who unanimously stood in the defense of all correspondence. The Croatian Journalist Society and the Union of Journalists and HRT, as well as the Journalists' Union of Croatia, also stood. Everyone in common says it's absolutely wrong. One journalist, one cameraman, one technician with one car reporting regional events and from rural areas certainly can't be a burden. If this were to be extinguished, the HRT would become the television of the ruling, it would become television not as a public information service but would cease to be and freely be all of us coming from different regions, and I will list which is 11: Karlovac, Koprivnica, Gradiška, Sisak, Virovitica, Metković, Požega, Slavonski Brodogradnja, Županja, Gospić and I forgot one more. They'd probably run out of space and we'd be free to invite them as agents not to pay more TV subscription if they don't have public information programs or events, especially I'd like there to be as much positive news as possible where something's going on, where something's going on, where something's being achieved as a success. It's getting smaller on HTV, and it should be more and more to give hope for the success of the economy that is most needed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71203	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71204	Dear Djakic, let the news be, so let them not be mocked. I'm afraid if correspondence is lifted, if what turns into reality is announced. You remember those players on the roads playing drums, lip accordion, guitar, the "one man band." That's what this correspondent's gonna look like to do. It can't be HRT. Someone was talking about how he helped a reporter hold a microphone in Brussels. They don't do that seriously. Serious TVs in the information program don't do that. It's what local televisions do that torture every kuna. However, how about you wait for some minister in the hallway and tell him please hold the microphone and I'll ask you a question. I don't know what level we're going down to. So I say, suspended correspondence is the removal of the advantage and it is knowingly destroying the advantage over its competition in the information program in front of commercial televisions that rub their palms on the palm and say fine, they will end correspondence, now we will be equal and we will beat them even more because they are much more attractive and faster. I need someone to talk to before working with these people on the ground. We used to have zinc in Vjesnik, we used to call in zinc, so we called in the Zinc Zinc, and that's the Center for the Education of Journalists. Croatian broadcasters also had their own school and those who were in front of the pension, who taught those young ones. There's been a lot of talk here about fostering and language and style and performances and dictions on screens. Today when you look at the whole thing, what you see on the screens, unfortunately it's not there. And you can imagine a picture from the field when it'll all be done by one man.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71205	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71206	My colleague, I think that in your discussion, you have looked back on something that deserves to be particularly potent, and that's why I'm replicating you, because it can't just get in the way. I think it's worth pointing out, but you're still saying that Director Radman said that somehow awkwardly in the context of the '70s when he talked about the most important, most valuable drama programs, the series that were then created and that thanks to so many of the children that were broadcast today, today's youngsters almost know them by heart and are happy to watch them every time. They even know how to respond in communication with the wisdom of these characters, the characters of a series because they are truly evergreens. It's just no time value having those shows. And that's why you shouldn't talk and justify yourself. That was in the '70s, that there was no connotation. Because I'll just say one more thing, especially when there's been a lot of criticism about language and device still. A lot of this has improved, but there is still room for progress because it is never better and more Croatian in Croatia then it seems to me it was called Television Zagreb was not spoken but then.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71207	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71208	My colleagues Antičević-Marinović, I am not one of those people who fears the past because nothing behind me is cloudy, so I have nothing to fear. I've been a reporter since '78. For years on the Evening List and everything I've written, I can still sign today. Yes, I've asked Mr. Radman and resigned, and I disagree with a thousand things, but I don't think Mr. Radman when he said he was back in the '70s thought we'd go back to communism, Tito, staff, etc. I didn't realize it, I've never claimed it before, so I can't say it now, but it's not all explained or at least it wasn't explained to the media. I realized we're going back to some of the values that were, so I'm saying the same thing, we're going back to some of the values of the labor force that it had and the rights of the employment that it had until the 1990s and today it's not. Why not? My God, the world hasn't begun since the 1990s. We haven't left since the 1990s. We haven't left since we were nineties. What was good should be installed in our country, and everything that happened in those years I've already listed some of those shows that were recorded would not be ashamed of far greater television, far more significant television, televisions that have a much wider reputation than their own country. Unfortunately, there's no such thing today. This set on Prisavlje will be remembered for whether it will create a good drama and education programme, not according to political terms as much as we care about it under the political programme, but just by the drama program. And in 10, 15, 20 years, he's going to mention that it's at the time of that and that principal as it is today. However, the question is whether we have on Croatian TV Kerstner, whether we have on Croatian television Ivo Stivičić. Ivo Stvicic is still in shape, he can call. Therefore, we have material to work with.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71209	Next in an individual debate, counterpart Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71210	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here's what I'm going to say about these reports, but I'm going to start my debate with a statement that will certainly mark today's media space. The prime minister says, "These cars do not belong in the ministry, they will be used by the MUP." It's such a statement in style, because it turns out that this MUP isn't really a ministry, that it's some kind of port captainate, agency, some kind of institute. And in this way these statements pass through the media space and will also be served to Croatian citizens because they can hardly tell when they hear something like that. And when a journalist asks him, where are the savings? There's no saving. But it's not even a car that valuable, because it's just been bought, and in five years it's worth so much. It's all media shows, it's simple to get information, process, spin, say spin, place and move on every day. I don't want to be an editor or a director, but as a subscriber to this facility every year, I'm buying a product that I want and a quality, and I have a chance here as an agent and watching what's going on with that money. According to these reports, these 960 kunas are not managed in one effective and meaningful way. There's a TV critic who shares in the paper cactuses and wreaths. I, for a report like this, can only share these cactuses for what has passed. There's simply no room for the newlyweds, no matter what good will. Because whatever I'm saying this TV hasn't been built in the last two years, it's been built for decades, and the fact is it's been bad standing without being seen for the better. It's a lot of politics we heard today, we heard there's too many SDPs on TV on these information shows, too little opposition. There are many thoughts that land us daily, and what is important is too little to feel for ordinary people, for those who have a problem. I've set an example. This Facebook protest that was here on Saturday was Saturday but we didn't see it on HRT's diary, we shouldn't have seen it. I also remember in 2011, 2011 was a direct transfer of facebook protests, it was transferred from the main square, from the Flower Square, around the corner, it was as simple as a football game and of course the journalists were there and there they tried to be at that protest. Because we have an illogical situation. In the moments when public companies or institutions go out to market, when the space is commercialised, it is normal for them to lose their share of income, let's say that Croatia's mail loses its share of income, and HRT keeps it the same money or even more and it has already been commercialised for as many as ten years and more. We have these commercial televisions, so we have these little ones, etc., so they're not alone in that space. And that's one big illogicality because it leads to a counterproductive effect. You know that you're going to get a billion and 200 million kunas and whatever you're doing or not doing, you're doing it nicely, you're giving it to everyone who's doing it, who's making it, and of course we don't have an incentive environment, we don't have any innovation. You've got a billion and 200, and we're gonna spend it already somehow, somebody's pay, someone less, and then we're wondering why our program looks like how we all characterized it together today, and that's all just not good. And the worst in these billions and 200 are paid subscriptions and those who don't see it at all, I quote the example of Istria, Mr. Director, there's no sign of HRT, those Italians are interfering with their HRT programmes and no one is going to solve it anymore and they pay 960 kuna a year like everyone else. What does the statute say? Article 2(1) and (2) HRT promotes public values and interests and for its public responsibility in the performance of its activities, HRT is independent of any political influence and pressure of the promoters of commercial interests. It should be deleted from that statute because it is not true, no one is sticking to it and it is simply politically dependent and it can obviously be influenced by it, they speak of these statistics mentioned by my colleague Glavas, because in order to be satisfied with it, I am paying 960 kunas to RTTV fees, if you don't pay in time, and they are doing it and they are still taking thousands of kunas of these costs of law offices, etc. And in order to watch what interests me, I have to set aside 2160 kunas a year for these other channels and other televisions because if you want to watch sports, football, the first Croatian football league, it's not in any rank but people like to watch it, it's ours, you have to give 60 kn to MAX TV, you have to give 60 kn for the sport package and 60 kuna you have to pay the adsl at all. That's 180, so you can even watch Hajduk, Dinamo or Rijeka or some club you're rooting for. So when you add that up, it's for you to even watch something 3120 kuna a year. And then if you don't pay these 2160s there's a high probability that you'll become a potential SDP voter because this 90% where they show up on all the information shows and simply makes some other options in Croatia no longer exist. There are no other politicians, except the independent ones. I wanted to ask if that Mr. Puhovski was on a contract to work with that television. He gives everyone some lessons every day, and even to the Prime Minister, I don't know how he dares. But it's not normal, I think. We have to get answers to why some have the right to comment on every day any situation or any political event because people learn on television, it's their orientation, we all know when some show that we like starts, and that's how we focus, we try to subdue our free time, especially to sports. But why wait here? He's waiting for us, we're just getting ready, and we're gonna have some dissatisfaction. All that is shown to us, after that we are dissatisfied because if something is understood by the Croats, they understand about football and understand about HRT and they are very critical. What are they even looking at? Ask the citizens what they think of HRT? You're watching HRT? I'm not looking, I have nothing to look at. If they say they're watching two shows, the Earth's Fruits, Sundays at 12am and Good Morning Croatia, it's something that's very much seen, educationally, given certain experiences and different views and there's not much politics, there's not much politics. And what impresses them most, the New Year's programme, the New Year's programme delights the Croats, of course, because if something was used to it over some decades ago, it was some kind of New Year's program, this year we had a fine rerun of the 1984 New Year's program, and I think, 30 years ago, she came out Mrs. Nela Eržišnik unfortunately deceased and it was a stabilisation and rationalization where she was terribly accusing the directors of living on a high-ranking basis, that she didn't care about the working class and all this reminded me of today, and I can say that it was perhaps one of the better New Year's programs than all the last years. And finally, to say just that no matter what, it's not permanent and it's not over, so this episode will pass, unfortunately it's not good either as a product, or something that offers optimism, there's too many black chronicles, there's too many of those stories about how we really became a society where someone's being brought into court every day, from a courtroom where there's no good potential or encouraging stories. Nothing is said nor about important topics, especially in the economy, do not give God about the unemployed, those who have problems because they are blocked, etc. It all comes down to a lot of these shows, and unfortunately, at the end of the day, the citizens conclude, we have nothing to look at, and we pay 960 kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71211	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71212	At the very beginning of your presentation, you said that these expensive 640 thousand kuna cars will drive the MUP, it has nothing to do with the discussion, but it has to do with the media. Imagine now that the media is gone, the media are still doing their job, the media has made this public pressure, they've withdrawn, they've made a big mistake, they've boasted, they've ordered cars. It was a lie that they didn't order because the car-procuring officer confirmed that they got it, the carriage was first, after the cars, after the carriage, but the media played, which I always say the media played a good role, they played a good role, the role of pressure, and it's nothing bad, it's bad in the government's procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71213	Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71214	Thank you very much. I cited it as an example by my colleague Vuksic because he says one saying, it's not true what you heard, but it's true what you understood, and I say that with information as placed as this, "it's not going to stay in the ministries, but it's going to stay in the Ministry" is one game, that's what spin says we're staying where we are, we're going to spend as much as they are worth, we didn't give up, not us in the HDZ, but the gentleman in the government, and these cars are going to cost so many years 650 thousand kunas, and there's nothing more that can be fixed. The only thing they did to make Mrs. Mayor Sisak-Moslavina come back, no matter what she signed that contract, and now we hear the government can't return. It's those games now. And in the end, the minister says one that normal people are sitting in the government. He needs to be trusted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71215	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71216	Mr Vuksic touched your opening mention of Prime Minister Milanovic's statement and the car. There's more of those statements. So we have Minister Zmajlovic, I didn't order the car, but he showed the need for it. So then Minister Maras, no one normal, and we are, wouldn't sit in such an expensive car. But it doesn't matter these messages, it's more important than these messages that we got here today in the Parliament after we've mutilated three people all day and this signature on this paper signed by Zoran Milanovic where, for today's debate, he named the Minister of Culture Andreu Zlatar Violic, Berislav Šipusa, Tamara Perisic for this session of Parliament. We're talking, we're discussing, we're criticizing, we're calling, but here these people whose name he put on this memo and signed by the Prime Minister of this government, they're gone, and that's the most crucial message that comes from today's session. As far as he's concerned, how much power this Parliament has with the voting machine that's here and the media and the attitude towards citizens who pay 80 kuna a monthly subscription here so HRT can function normally.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71217	Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71218	Thank you very much. Comrade Klaric, I agree with that, but it should be a lesson for all of us. Here we have a director, he can influence it safely because here it's often said that in the Assembly, these parliamentary deputies are fled as soon as the television is shut down, so about 1 and a half when they no longer transmit, the parliamentary deputies run away, they disappear. There's a 20 that's already been crystallized these two years, 30 max, and this 100 shows up on Fridays, these others have to move, they get their hands up and we go the same way. Perhaps motivated, we introduce a full day transfer, vice presidents and perhaps these parliamentary deputies who can't speak without being followed by media lights, television, we might find time to sit down in the afternoon and say something about problems because this is how it turns out that by 1 and a half we have a Croatian Parliament, and in the afternoon we have a TV chat room. Assembly TV chat room.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71219	Otherwise, the parliamentary television broadcasts the entire course of the debate during the day. Clear Mesic, replica. Jasen Mesic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71220	May I go?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71221	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71222	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, you said too many SDPs on the program, I don't know, and it's not right that you forgot the HNSs there. It is not correct of you to make such a difference, since the HNS is exactly when it is appointed V.D. In mid-2012, he was the main, main instigator of everything that happened, political shifts, cutting, dropping external production, increasing the coefficients of paid, and how much they really care about... I can speak louder if I have to. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] [[Storage Zgrebec: Turn on the microphone.]] He's acting, he didn't mention it, Madam Vice President. [[Break Zgrebec: Do not need to speak louder, turn on the microphone, but the replica does not refer to the presentation of colleagues Boric.]] Madam Vice President, if you'll excuse me, allow me, please calm my colleagues who receive unarticulated from the bench and let me finish my replica. [[So it's not a replica to say what he didn't mention.]] So, fellow Boric, I don't know why you forgot that HNS attempt to take over HRT, to push in front of the SDP, to insert their V.D. The director who actually conceived everything. So he set up an editor of a entertainment program that spent almost a million kunas to create a new production that lasted only one episode and then they took it down because it was complete dilentism. Do not be unfair and just attack the SDP when you know that the SDP insists on voting all the HNS laws of whatever they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71223	I won't comment on anything. Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71224	Thank you very much. Well, I dropped it on purpose because apparently the SDP is aware that the HNS doesn't have enough ability to run a public institution like this and they took it all over their backs and I'm just going to repeat what I said today. If there were no Mr. Radman with these results, Mr. Milanovic would already be in opposition today, regardless of the HNS and these others from the Kukuriku coalition.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71225	But let's go back to the subject we're discussing. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71226	... You are specifically in your debate that television is, that... a list of SDPs and that's what guests are called. [[Speech is not enabled.]] I've been guests twice in Studio 4, even three in the last few months, and every time people from HDZ were invited. But your center wouldn't let people come. Maybe you don't know it personally because there were some other topics that maybe you didn't cover and they wouldn't let you, so not to you personally, but HDZ didn't allow it. You can check this out in Studio 4 how many topics there were when you were invited, your colleagues were invited and the party did not allow them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71227	You can't answer me. You can't answer me. You can't answer me. You can't answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71228	So let me say something, please at the club to say something. Comrade Antičević that you have statistics that in the central journal 39 times someone calls an SDP member, and twice the HDZ what would you say about that? Well, it wasn't a long time ago. I remember those reporters there, they used to stick tape to their mouths, etc. It was censorship then, etc. But I'm saying there was a lot more pluralism, different thinking, a show where I could face different opinions. Where can you do that today on what show? Focus? 7 independents and 1 from the SDP come once a week. So I think that's where the value is lost, so there are citizens in Croatia who didn't vote for this power, they want to hear some other opinion Mr. Director not only of the SDP. The SDPs see, they work. They're not happy with them. He wants to hear someone else who might be thinking something else, and that's gone. Every central Dnevnik is interviewing Prime Minister Milanovic after a few days or two days after the interview of President Josipovic. When there was an event in Vukovar three central shows were little one, little else no one knew what had happened there. Is that what happened? But Croatian citizens all pay the subscription not only the SDPs pay the subscription. It's not important, it's important. It is not a problem that is seen but what a man understands, and he understands that only members of the SDP serve him daily. And when every minister wants 10 minutes, he has a chance to come to that diary, and everyone else has to wait. Now, of course we can't agree on anything or on this, but statistics show he's fat in your favor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71229	I'm begging you to calm down. Everyone had a chance to say the line and say the answer and don't yell from the bench. Sun Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71230	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A fellow fighter is exactly what you said. these are statistics that are relevant and that have been followed over the past year and I don't think there should be any anger. When you talk about censorship and those Band-Aids that were now so far we don't need censorship at all because they simply shut down the shows where you could hear a different opinion, we were already talking about it today. But here we have another problem, if you don't like some daily newspaper you don't have to buy them, but you don't like the HRT program but we have to pay for it otherwise you'll get the job done, there's the problem. Of course we're talking about the program because what else would we be talking about? The program is the final product of what HTV offers us. The programme is what needs to satisfy public interest in all those items signed in the contract with the Government. The joke aside, when you were talking about the New Year's program and when we're talking about the program at all, and most often we think about the information program, then it's a devastating fact that over the past seven years the HTV's most watched program has been sports transmissions, of course with all due respect to our handball players and football players who are the first on that scale. When you move sports events, then the first Eurosong, Dora and Passy is therefore an American film. I ask you, fellow Boric, where's the public interest? Of course, I say with all due respect to our athletes, however, this programme did not produce HTV, nor did HRT employees play in the field and score goals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71231	Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71232	Thank you very much. My colleague Glavak, I warned you about that. I said as a customer of products, I'm not satisfied because I still have to give 2160 kunas to watch sports. You say there is, there is no sport other than the world championship, you can't look at anything on TV for long and now you have an Olympics. And when you have it, the question arises whether someone arranged it that way because we used to have everything on another channel, if I remember correctly. We had two programs but I had a sport, you had a football league sport, you had a look at something. There's no more today. We look here and there, Cibona, there's little Cedevita, nothing else. And the money has a billion and 200. Well, I guess there's something you can do to make people know what's going on in that part. And not to look, all we do is look at politicians all day long. Well, the kid in kindergarten already knows who the Minister of Education is, or I don't know, the prime minister, the president, it's not in foreign countries in Germany, in Austria, there people deal with other topics and they have state television. But their news lasts for 10 minutes, you know what's going on out there, they're not on any other channel, but only on one channel, and we know how it works, a regulated state. This is information, news all day long, since morning of 7 p.m., there's no way you're missing anything. And the important topics that plague people, unemployment, executions and all these life problems, how they survive on the minimal, how everything else goes in a month, no life stories. We have to look at it on some other commercial television. And that's why the director should sort it out a little bit, suggest a little different programming policy. And then, of course, the viewers would be more pleased. Not just serving our successes, i.e. The failures of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71233	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71234	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague of Boric, on HRT regardless of the constitutional principles of the law, so the ethical code of the HRT is not allowed censorship, as you were saying. But here's... Reporters without borders have placed Croatia in 65 places and have just criticised Mr Milanovic's authority, the Kukuriku coalition to appoint the head of the HRT and members of the Supervisory Board, which enables the ruling party and stresses political control over the content of the broadcast. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then it becomes that the only criterion is actually the only right thing to think and represent the CEO, here present Mr. Radman. But you also talked about the protests last Saturday and they were not shown on Croatian TV but you remember very well those protests from 2011 when it appeared to be a football game by journalists from HRT. So I'll read you that article of the 24th Ethics Code of the HRT, which states that a journalist or other worker in a chain of realization must not, by word, image, tone, sound, gesture, signs and features, show his or her preference to a particular political, economic, interest or other social group or organisation. This must avoid emotions that may lead to a conclusion about bias. It is further stated that a journalist must not impose views or give priority to one of the opposing parties and must do nothing to produce an impression of one-sidedness. So much for you and for the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71235	Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71236	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Babic, you, like many today, have warned of... reporters, it's a good thing they're not in HDZ, those reporters because they'd turn out to be cheerleading. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And one fellow MP explained to us that this fall is actually a flight, that it's better, that it's progress. That it's growth, you understand. So what now? Because we're here to watch, they're going to tell us that we're cheerleading, we're not on HRT, so here we can get angry, they're on the left because there's too many and simply people have come to the conclusion that they have nothing to look at on HRT, they have to watch all those other commercial TVs that, with a lot less money, create obviously a program that might be visible, that's a fact. So how can they create a program with 200 or 300 million being watched and we with a billion and 200 can't do what we might want. And that's the question, and that's what someone needs to answer in this debate so it doesn't turn out that we're in HDZ just because we're not on HRT, maybe there'll be some time when there might be us, there won't be those. But it's not the task of public television, it has to be objective, it has to show reality. And from what we're presented, we don't see reality. And that is why we rightly warn here that this should be fixed and I hope you want to fix it in 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71237	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please welcome the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71238	Well, well-respected Madam Vice President, Mr. Director, with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. So here it is already moved, we discuss it persistently. Of course, when all the lights of the reflector were in the morning, there were many more of us. Debate, I think that time was moving that they were better quality. The truth was also those who debated in this sense if they were not, therefore, hiding behind their own party or some political or interest group if they did not see their picture on television, television is not good, the program is not good and so, it was also such, but my God, the reports must be objective but the criticisms here and the comments from the MPs don't really have to be like that. Although there were a lot of people who were really quality and with care, they were not only guided by some of their own interesting reasons and benefits, but for the sake of general well-being they discussed precisely with the desire for Croatian broadcasting to become public television to a greater extent to the satisfaction of citizens in terms of all those tasks that such television with such attributes must and to have. What I would like to say at first and quote Lawrence Lorena who worked and TV critic and who also wrote for Washington Post, he said that the conditions for the correct critical perspective he defined were still said 30 years ago that such critic should have sensitivity and comprehensibility, rich knowledge in a wide range of art, culture, technology, business, law, economy, ethics, generally social buildings but, of course, the style of such a commentator is also important so that he could inspire both awareness and conscience with viewers. We have talked a lot here and compared our public television to public television across Europe, but also in Europe. Of course we will all agree that public television must be a basis of objectivity and public television should be defended from all attacks of private interest, interest or political groups, but public television must never at any time become public propaganda. And that she was in the '90s, especially in the late '90s, and not only was she public propaganda, but that she was in a good way from a part of the press, it certainly stands. And the way from such state television to the day of today was grueling, thorny, with many downfalls, but also ups and ups. Everything that happened in our past was first said somewhere on some media. Something was said about it, as the Bible begins at the beginning was the word. Nothing happened, not good or bad, that was not spoken, and that is why it is very important what is the responsibility for the spoken public word. There was also talk of only censorship, and ignoring or abandoning is also one form, I would say one of the worse forms of propaganda and I will say more about it than I should encourage, so not only editors but above all, affirmation to journalists, those who create or who directly contact the audience. What I think should also be specifically noted, there have also been a lot of speeches about it, HRT as a public service, especially here we are sensitive and should cultivate this informative, educational, dramatic programme that needs to be dominated in the structure of its programme. Of course, in this sense, public television differs from commercial television, and they can never be competitors to each other. Although such televisions when they inform, they must and apply the Media Act to them in their information programme. No one can justify themselves for the advertisers. Yeah, well, that's the truth. It's either it's got to cross over or when it's over it's full of big capital and those who pay for their commercials so that they can't be completely objective. We have more of that on commercial television, but here's some television in Europe, and they cut the advertising so that there's no propaganda program at all. The meaning of public television here was often mentioned by law itself. Public television is not just established by law, where it is fortunate that we had this law much earlier, as the judiciary does not only establish itself. We'll tell the judiciary is independent from today. As long and thorny as that road was, so was free, independent journalism and public service HRT. I will also mention important documents, particularly the 1997 Amsterdam Protocol, the Prague Resolution and the European Parliament Resolution, which are very important in public television. What is important to citizens is that they have access to information, access to the media and where HRT is one of the key in this regard. Why does it matter? This is primarily important for democracy in itself because it is not only important to describe that something happened or showed, but above all, this educational dimension of public television is really binding. This defines us as viewers and as voters, like those who opt for this or that slave, so it is not important that we have only the option of choice but first of all to explain why, that people have arguments, to encourage them to define and how critically to think certain content. It is up to democracy alone and I see a great role in public television. That's why it's important for editors to encourage journalists. In this respect, their economic security is important, and it is also important that if they do the same or similar work they cannot be paid differently. That's what they're most complaining about. So it seems to me, at least according to their speech, that this is still missing, with all the strong shifts that it lacks just such a systematization of work to be paid equally for the same job. So there's no free media without free journalism. What was the role, a little talk, a little talk about children, the role of women. We will not only talk about women when it is March 8th or some appropriate date, violence against women, HRT continues to show women mostly when it comes to fashion, beauty, violence, while in these other segments, especially political action and social engagement of women still not so much. Of course it's better than it was, but it's still not enough. I want to finish this short exposure by wanting all HRT to become a mirror of society in which many will look and many will not like what they see, but this means that HRT will not be good at that time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71239	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71240	The Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, and yours lifts up their replicas. Mrs. Antičević-Marinović, you said in the opening statement that you should have a face from the screen in order for the viewers to believe everything you need to have. And you're absolutely right. When I was talking about television with no character, I was thinking about protagonists who were without personality. Remember Goran Milic on Croatian TV when he had a diary on Sundays, the ratings of that Sunday diary were twice as high as the other days. For what? Because it's Goran Milic, because he knew how to impose himself on theatre, because he has personality, because he has that factor x. This is very important in identifying people, editors, those leading 7 editors or 8 how many did the director-in-chief tell about how many of them are on the Croatian radio that will know how to schedule it, who will know how to find those people whom viewers will trust. Then that program will be what Mrs. Holly said provocatively would be good. So the same news Goran Milic gave Sunday night if he sat down with another leader with the same news but another way of presentation and another text, that's one-on-two ratings. So that's very important in this job that's not simple. And Croatian television has to think exactly that about the relationship with the viewers because these viewers pay her while commercial televisions work, means only on the principle of advertising.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71241	Replication response, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71242	Very short. ... I agree, but I think it's even more important than the very way to give information objectively, impartially, truthfully. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if she still has this element that you're saying is expressed by a person who in one way knows how to say that the viewer has the impression that she is sitting with him, that she can communicate with it certainly better. That's what we had, and that's what I believe we're going to have, and the question is exactly how many of them are being identified. However, this one seduction must never go to the heart of truth and objectivity especially when it comes to Croatian broadcasting.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71243	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71244	Thank you very much. Well, colleagues Ingrid, you've used one word that I think is not appropriate for the 1990s to be run on HRT by some sort of a hazing policy, etc. I personally remember those 1990s as one of the best times of Croatian broadcasting. At that time, many names became names on Croatian television. Some have gone to others, some are no longer dealing with it, but it's a time of state creation, it's a time when we had objective and good information that happened in the country regardless of the difficult state it was. It's possible that the end of the 1990s was a little different, but that's no reason to say that in the 1990s it was a Hague policy. Because unlike that time, I can say today that I'm just looking at what Delo Hadziselimovic has chosen, everything else is surplus.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71245	Replication response, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71246	My colleague that you listened a little more carefully, I said from certain journalists, it certainly wasn't worth it for the whole period or for the whole. It was part of it, and it was unacceptable. You know that's how it was. But there were some contents. I'll get them again, because it's very important to us today. Today we're all surprised why there's no industry. The industry was destroyed because a rhetoric was created to destroy it. I'll do it myself this morning. Croatia at the time, the radio-television showed the collapse of the factory. There were workers present who clapped and lost their jobs. It's shown, of course, that it's polluting the air. It's like he couldn't put on some kind of filter. So yes, it was the whole strategy to destroy the industry and come to privatisation. Look, maybe you'll get a chance, and I believe you'll agree to that and condemn it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71247	Clear Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71248	That one of those who clapped Mrs. Ingrid was a colleague of Klaric's from Bakra for pollution when that chimney was knocked down. But to go back to what I wanted to replicate. When you say all of this nicely what public television needs and what it is tasked with then interpreting that the Programme Council has concluded that HRT does not fulfil its law and contract of defined obligations in the drama programme of HTV. The mass written in the report, which is not fulfilled and what kind of repercussion it will produce. As for the pillars of public media service or public television, it is written to you in both the Amsterdam Protocol and the Prague Resolution that you quoted. There are two always basic pillars. One is the choice of leading people, and one is independent funding. Independently, tax financing is secure, and it exists. Unfortunately, that is why we keep mentioning this law of amendment and supplementation. The choice of leading people who were before was much more democratic, and this was ultimately assessed by the European Commission, and we will repeat it repeatedly as long as it takes you to appreciate it. If it is nothing we say to you, then take a report and a reporter without borders or a report from the European Commission where the explicits tell you that the newer law is worse than it was before. And keep saying that to yourself when you talk about public television. Repeat that every day, because we had a chance to continue a project based on political consensus. You destroyed it for the only reason that you can have influence and that you can staff and that you can make decisions on your own not by two-thirds of the majority, but that you can manage Croatian Radio Television. That's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71249	Replication response, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71250	I do that when you don't believe what it says and what our media has announced that then I can trust you in your interpretations. When it comes to this in Croatia, about freedom of the media and where problems are said to continue to exist but that Croatia has made progress compared to last year and last year by 4 index points. Well, I don't know what year you're reading it then.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71251	Damir Tomic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71252	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Antičević, you spoke about the editor's choice and communication with the viewers and in the context of the fact that the percentages of the representation of certain programmes on HRT, and I would refer to one fact which bothers me as a viewer, and I am deeply sorry that HRT is no longer transferring the programme from the trial of former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader and HDZ, and I think that in this way the minutes that the HDZ colleagues are dissatisfied with HRT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71253	And Vanja Posavac replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71254	Thank you. My colleagues here, you said to quote that some of them are used to looking at their regular picture in the old HRT days, and I think there's definitely a problem because they're looking at it a little less today, even though we look at their picture and their party regularly, and here's the trial reports. And I'd also agree that there's a little bit more to include an expert, so I'm surprised that some people are so upset because they're obviously used to being regular on HRT, but there's still something happening on HRT, so I think a little more involves experts, those who have something to say, and not just politicians from one party, and we know the 90s that it was.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71255	Replication response, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71256	The criticisms that come from a party that is not considered sufficiently represented, it is not sufficiently represented when it is not almost 100% represented. And then there's this one problem, that side that gets both deserved and undeserved, we're all just a little subjective, and that's what it was. So here is the line you're saying here that members of a particular party specifically HDZ are not represented enough on television, that they don't see or hear their opinions, it's simply not true. Then when they're going, when they can't answer TV anymore, they're even going where they are and what they're in the courtroom is not our fault.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71257	My colleague, Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71258	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Madam President, Your Honor, Director with Associates. Here I wouldn't repeat everything that's already been said today, a lot of things are really said. I'd rather focus on asking questions to the headmaster himself. The report from the HRT Programme Council for 2012 or 2013 mentioned on several occasions that the programme was too commercialised and requested the promotion of its own production based on Croatian dramatic and literary heritage and the promotion and promotion of contemporary Danish creation also requested the development and involvement of its own productions and human resources. They requested the Director-General's cooperation with the Director of the Programme. Well, I'm curious now what has been done on these specific issues so far. Some of the serious complaints made by the Programme Council were the way in which the costs were presented, the complaints also referred to the quality of the data delivered to the Council since the function of the Council is to monitor the implementation of the contract with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, this can be realised only if quality and measurable data are obtained on the basis of which it can be concluded whether the contract with the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the Law on HRT is implemented in an adequate manner. However, according to the records we received, the programme council repeatedly objected in 2012 and 2013 whether or not all data were obtained or received at all or whether specific questions were answered or not, or whether they were answered in general. There have been objections that the ongoing restructuring is being delayed, so here's my question: how much does it cost to restructure and restructure HRT's announcements? Furthermore, the HRT Media Environment Research Service is preparing a proposal for a standardised pattern of monitoring of ratings, listening and visits to radio and television channels at monthly level for the programme council, so here is my question whether this tool for monitoring ratings is ultimately obtained. At one of the meetings of the Programme Council, a report on ratings or listening is requested, the visitation shall be standardised to establish the obligations of drawing up and presenting the report of the Council on the HRT Council in a given format and certain dynamics. In some ways, it objected that the council had asked countless times and had not received the answer was information about the engagement of external associates in the programme. So the question is whether it is possible to know exactly how much it was spent on external broadcasters on shows in 2013 and why it is not used on a permanent basis, one is indeed a lot not engaged on any project. The EU content issue has already been run several times today during the debate. Definitely missing EU content, the director announced it would change, but it is not defined when it will change. At the same time, there's an emissions environment, it's the first regional political information talk show that I think is okay. But in my view, it would be more logical to first or possibly parallel to this talk show so that someone would not misread something similar to that done with guests from the EU only so that citizens have an idea that we are indeed a member of the EU since 1 July. When it comes to the HRT programme of work and management in the programme, it is said to apply the most corporate standards of management of HRT or to apply transparency and the public of business. I'd like to give you one proposal here, namely, I think we should start by introducing a practice like BBC, so the publication of CVs and salaries and all the costs of all HRT employees. Is there any courage for that? It's a pretty serious thing, of course, but I think we should do it, namely it doesn't cost anything, and it creates a good and quality picture that we have on HRT and how much that picture costs. It is also about independence from negative political and commercial and personal influences, participation of the general public, users of services and business partners in validations and processes of promotion, quality of programmes and services of HRT. Now I'm asking how exactly is that imagined? For example. RF Austrian has so-called Audio..., so 35 members, 6 members are selected by viewers, or listeners by sector, make proposals on the programming concept and technical improvements. Do we have anything like this or were we going to do something like that? Are further restrictions on legal advertising in HRT programmes expected in the future? Can HRT be expected to be seen, for example, on BBC where there is no word or further decrease? Or how it was done by French television by law of 2009 abolished advertising after 20.00 hours. When it comes to the 2014 plan and savings, staff costs are 455 million kuna, so 7% less than 2013, the reduction of the fees based on trade union negotiations and a new collective contract, the abolition of 11 HRT correspondence and 51 employees and 22 so-called employment. a video reporter, who will record, write and mount the report himself. Now, my question is, I think that concept is in principle fine, so CNN's been working for a long time, and some TVs, but I don't think it's best to start with the first reduction of employees in HRT correspondence when you have 700 extra workers in the administration and I think it should still be in the order of restructuring to start from the administration. When it comes to planned savings, it is not known exactly how many new people are employed in various professional services, somewhere there is a data of 80 people, but without further explanation, so who, what, when and where and I think it is something that the public needs to know, and that, again, could be published on HRT's websites, so transparently as I said, résumés plus wages. And the fact is that a large number of HRT employees, Slovakia has only slightly more inhabitants than Croatia, and their national TV has 950 employees, HRT has 3500 and 3600 according to some data, the Czech Republic has 2500 employees, one France with all its programmes has 10 320 permanent employees, and it has 57 million residents. There was also a question of subscription, of course the subscription is always a painful point that must not be touched because it is something that is a substrate of Croatian television itself in this financial sense. However, these are really difficult times, times of crisis, and the question of paying a subscription for many people is painful because when you don't have a circle, the least you have is a subscription. Germany has abolished the payment of the subscription for low-paying people, otherwise the German subscription is 18 euros, given their receipts it is lower than in Croatia, and people with disabilities pay only 5 euros. Is HRT planning to do something like that, at least for people with disabilities? Those are the questions I'd like to get an answer to. Of course, I wish you a lot of success in your television restructuring business, you've taken a big job, you've got a big commitment, you've got the Parliament's trust, I expect the next report, the next report will show the results and these days' debates, and here, Madam Vice President, it bothers me that there are no government representatives here. The government critically referred to the HRT report, gave a positive opinion, but we can't get the dogs to bark, and the caravans are passing, we really expected the government here to say what it means and how does it help to restructure HRT? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71259	Thank you. The government delivered a written opinion. A representative of the government cannot speak otherwise than the Government has given written opinion on certain reports. And now we're going to hear the final statement on behalf of the proposer. First, the head director of HRT, Mr. Goran Radman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71260	Honorable Vice President, honourable MPs. I thank you, it was really long, rich, for me personally instructive because for the first time I am able to listen and communicate and with Parliament's representatives on this subject. I'm personally grateful for that. There was a lot that would benefit me in my further work. There have also been many questions that are specific and deserve a specific answer. I would not enter all of them right now, I will try to cover them with some principled answers, and focus on that part of the issues that are related to the subject of today's debate at the Assembly, which is the 2012 HRT Business Report. Allow me before I enter into that just say a few principled comments or remarks. HRT is probably individual if not most valuable then certainly one of the most valuable public goods of the Republic of Croatia. This publically created long, long years and generations of people not only employees, editors and journalists but also the public who participated in it have installed a lot of value in the content of this public good. Next year, Croatian Radio will celebrate 90 years of its business, and TV is mine as a generational relative would say. I was born in 1957 so many years of HTV and talk about them, not having in mind this dimension and value that this institution has created throughout the generations would certainly not be good. When I assumed this duty, I was both humble and humbled by understanding the responsibility and the fact that I did so on behalf of all previous generations, and at the same time very enthusiastically that when I get this opportunity, I will be able to get what I have learned in my life, what I have gained above all, to think of the wisdom of life, of the knowledge that this society has invested in me, in an appropriate way to this society, and to return to doing a job that I believe is very close to my sensibility, to my competences and to my knowledge. Although enthusiasm, in the meantime, has made me feel a sense of responsibility and obligation toward what I am doing at no time questioned. I would like you to feel the same way about you Parliamentarians when you talk, discuss and talk publicly about HRT because no matter what we say today, the bearers of these obligations are so full of value, so much of what is significant and so much potential embedded in what should be the future of Croatian society, that we must not question our responsibility for these facts at any moment. I have a feeling that, often and easily, claims are made, attitudes are transmitted, and facts are not established before that. And that is why I will ask you both individually but also the Croatian Parliament in general when it gets knowledge of something that it suspects is not in accordance with the law or existing legal regulations which, according to the information you have, whether it came from someone you know on HRT or from a circle of interested public or other media, you certainly try because you have not only the right but also the obligation to verify that information before you express categorical claims about them. Today, there was a lot of such information in the debate that was primarily based on some kind of media speculation about what was happening much less on facts. So you have both the right and the obligation, and it is my responsibility to give you that information when you look for me before you decide to take a political stance on them. I think it will help us to communicate in a very responsible way, especially when you have doubts that the person you entrusted with with such a valuable property with some of your behavior, some of your recklessness or some of your strange decisions have questioned your trust. I suggest you call me immediately to the Parliament, I suggest you immediately ask for my testimony on how not to bring the public into doubt that something is possibly done to the public or the Croatian Parliament, and especially to Croatian society. So I have no idea at any moment that I would do something either consciously or unconsciously that would lead me to this situation, but I allow you to do it in a different way. The HRT I took over in November 2012 is burdened by many we also told the structural problems inherited from the previous period, there is no point in neither seeking responsibility nor digging for responsibility in such a way as not to solve the problem. The Croatian Radio Television Dubiozes in 11 months 2012 amounted to a billion kunas of inherited debt, so the money is worth approximately one year's revenues of Croatian Radio Television and a solution to the performance of Croatian Radio Television worth less than 400 million kuna. All that we talk about about, first of all, about fulfilling its legal obligations, is, above all, about the fact that this institution could have stopped at one point and I would have dared say and cease to exist. All my efforts in this effort ever since I took over the house were still aimed at keeping it from happening. I believe that the existence of Croatian broadcasting as a public institution which is at the same time a function and bearer of the cultural identity of the Croatian people but also a carrier of the potential for positive social change is something that the Republic of Croatia needs for now and for the future. And let me also with that perspective and look at the obligations that part of the legislative and contractual angle of watching but also from the day-to-day operation come to the table and must be dealt with. The 2012 report came with a great delay ahead of you, not necessarily the responsibility and guilt of the Croatian Radio Television Administration. Namely, on the moment that the law and procedures were completed, the procedure which included the final report on the business waiting for an independent auditor's report in 2012 was carried out in particular audit, so the review of the state audit and the final opinion and decision of the Supervisory Board, at that moment as the Director-General and I sent this report to the Croatian Assembly and asked for your statement on it. I believe that no matter what I was relatively short on managing the house, my responsibility is related to her fate, no matter what it was before and how it was and more of course about what should be done to make the house well and to bring about the function of the public service that we all talk about with positive motivation. I can also say that the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council with which I try to work most closely in all the necessary changes in order for HRT to really be cured and put into service something that naturally goes through its challenges, expectations of course of dynamics and the speeds of the necessary changes and at the same time our ability to respond to these changes. I will say briefly that what was most often commented today and this is the programme and indeed is the final product of Croatian Radio Television. This product carries the full burden of the structural problems that this house has and which we have to deal with on a daily basis with staff, financial, organisational, business. And in that sense, I understand your concern about whether this programme meets the expectations of the public, or whether it gives public value to the extent that the legislator and the public expect it to be. I personally think that a thorough or fundamental question or doubt about it should not be. Regardless of all the challenges and problems that Croatia is facing, it is in its European environment, in particular, in the context of this wider region of the former state or Southeast Europe as you wish, certainly the most successful public broadcasting institution that has managed not only to survive but also to preserve its high reference quality compared to others. The trouble is that, unfortunately, we are more dynamically lagging behind the reference and state-of-the-art European public broadcasting institutions that we once, not only compared but successfully and carried. My intention, my desire, my ambition to return Croatian broadcasting back to that circle and I want to convince you that whatever I do, regardless of what I do in the segment of video journalists, whether in the segment of ethical norms or some of the other elements you mentioned here today, is primarily motivated by being able to compare ourselves with those who are in the European circle today, ours would say the most quality, reference associates, partners or rivals if you wish. There were a lot of words about my style, about the way I manage Croatian radio and responsibility that I trust with the Law on Croatian Television. I hope these reports you have on your desk speak in reference to how you really care about the property that is entrusted. I believe that in the years to come you will have from the same sources of appropriate measuring, professional courts on whether the handling was in accordance with the law and regulations or something different was managed by the house. I would like to believe that what has been mentioned several times today, that there is one climate of fear, uncertainty, that the government of HRT has nothing to do with me personally or with my management style. I understand the concerns of my colleagues of HRT employees who see that the situation is not good, that not only the entire state and society are struggling with basic, existential issues and that they are, of course, concerned about the survival of their work on HRT, but I share their concerns and am fully responsible for making decisions. And possibly part of a fellow who has concerns or fears of my style can only say that not one resignation on HRT that I had to sign was not signed before I was convinced that they were based on positive legal regulations, before I got evidence not only of my own legal services but also of independent lawyers, specialists in the subject. And of course, I would never choose to decide people's fates without being sure that everyone's regulations were respected. So if there is any fear I would also dare say from this pay phone that can be justified only by those people who are employees of HRT, who do not work or do not act in accordance with the law, with positive regulations, with the norms that this house has and with the basic labour contracts that employees have signed with HRT. Everything else is an insane interpretation of the relationships we've established on HRT and I believe we're on the right track and her recovery. I'm as dissatisfied with the quality of software content myself. In a broader sense, I think HRT can give much more and much better, and I believe that we will be able to prove it soon, and I myself myself am partly frustrated with the quality of information content. I believe that this element of the program that should be a feather and, in some ways, the bearer of HRT's identity is more organisational, humane, technological, and, in part, financially devastated, and that it will take a lot more time for its recovery than I anticipated. Namely, the restructuring and reorganisation that preceded it is the most late part in this segment of the programme, so in part of the information programme of HTV for a whole series of reasons that still today cost us a part and a reputation in the public, because, of course, journalists, and when you are individually expected to get the attention that might otherwise not normally as normal people could provide themselves. Here is a list of 70 different very specific issues that go beyond the 2012 report. Some are related to specific tax problems, I draw attention to the fact that the collection of fees is governed by the Law on HRT and that it is certainly in some way for you as representatives of the Croatian Parliament to decide. I would draw attention to the fact that this regulation is not specific or different from European norms, that it is fully referenced within the European framework and that the different practices of European countries are also used by this model that we have, which is a mixed model of approach and commercial income, and that this mechanism for HRT works well enough in these conditions and that it should only be changed when we find a better mechanism to deliver better results. Any invitation to change it at all costs, and without knowing that we will do something better, would directly endanger the existence and business of HRT, and practically prevents the achievement of the restructuring goals that are very complex. Here, I'll finish up here. Of course, I accept the obligation to answer every asked question directly, be it written, be it oral, honored representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71261	Thank you very much. President of the HRT Programme Council Mrs. Nina Obulen Koržinek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71262	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I'll try to be very brief. First of all, I believe it's a lapus, but I have to warn you. Several MPs and deputies spoke to the chairman of the Supervisory Board and to me as co-workers, Mr. Chief Director and Associates. We were appointed by this House of the High, and we came here to answer you as persons representing the bodies in which we were appointed. Very short. The form and contents of the report we filed, I must repeat it again, it was the only possible. Expect our full report for several months, and then we will certainly mention everything mentioned today, and the issue of minorities and contracts with the Bishop's Conference and the issue of treatment for Croats and programmes for Croatians abroad, drama and play programmes, gender equality, education programme, culture and science, language issue, film programme, news and content treatment issues from the EU, and many other topics. I have to say that we've discussed all of this more or less, but we haven't delivered any final opinion until we've reported this High House on the fulfillment of the contract, and that's why we've attached our records. Also, given the many topics mentioned today, I must say that the Programme Council has also responded to examples of hate speech, and to issues of individual cancellations, emissions cancellations, non-emissioning of certain software content, about the abolition of correspondence, violations of ethical principles and professional norms, we have pointed some to consistency and conduct. So we've been doing all this for over a year. There were questions here about movements, whether there were shifts. Some shifts exist, we made that clear in our reports, but I have to repeat here what we said, so the Council simply lacks the information that no data is being delivered to the Council and from your debate here today it was clear that this High House of the Council has great, great expectations. This Programme Council doesn't want to deal with impressions or rumors, it doesn't want to be guided by its own particular interests, and I'm glad you recognized it. It is a great recognition for all members and members of the Council. But for that very reason, we asked this High House to help us get the information we need, and to comply with your expectations for several months and to bring our opinion of fulfilling or failing to meet our contractual obligations. For the end, I'm just going to say it's really a complex process. In the report, we stressed in several places that we understand that a huge task has been put before the Director-General in an inappropriately short period of time very often with instruments that have not been sufficiently laid down in the law itself. We had a lot of understanding. But time passes. We are bonds of harmonisation in large part with commitments undertaken and the Programme Council will surely insist on it. Once again, I can only ask you to give us support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71263	Thank you very much. And the chairman of the HRT Supervisory Board Mr. Victor Gotovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71264	Dear Vice-Presidents, MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. So, I heard, we heard because I'm actually here in front of the HRT Supervisory Board all the comments, remarks, remarks and plight. I consider them all important and valuable, and this is exactly how I will transfer them to the members of the Supervisory Board and in order to give a more comprehensive report on the work and implementation of the supervision of the legality of the work and financial operations of Croatia's broadcasting starts already since the 2013 Report all in a way that is consistent with both your legal obligations and your respective expectations and efforts. Thank you for everything I've said. I'd only like to answer a few questions directly addressed to the Supervisory Board. One question is the need to ask a hodogram, which would limit the submission of the report by 30 May. This, unfortunately, would not have been the case with regard to the Supervisory Board, given the fact that all the data that would indicate business should be revised, so that it would be premature, or should be moved at least a month later. In the same sense or in this regard, a question is also asked, i.e. a reference to what I said in the opening statement, and what had to do with the fact that we would refer to the 2012 financial indicators in the 2013 Report. This will actually only refer to our adoption of the 2012 financial results that took place in October 2013. All data are contained in the Director-General's Report, and our review will be the day during, in the 2013 Report. There was one remark that applied to form. I would point out that all the bodies of Croatian broadcasters have asked the relevant parliamentary committee for guidance on a form that would be unique, which would satisfy them. It could represent a form that could then follow all three bodies of Croatian broadcasting. We didn't get an answer to that question, so maybe it's the fact of this kind of dispersion in the form that's between our three bodies. Likewise, the observation concerning the language likely to apply to the Supervisory Board’s report. I understand that remark, I accept the meaning that it is certainly a form for the purpose of content and that it is necessary to maintain the importance of the institution in respect of which the report itself applies. And in this respect, we will indeed strive and act in the future in a way that makes it a better form. There have been some comments, i.e. comments on the fee, fees on pensioners and charges on persons with disabilities. I would say first of all that if the provisions of the Croatian Radio Television Act are read, in which de facto this fee is made with three decisions. The first decision of the Supervisory Board, then of the Council for Electronic Media and then of our final decision, which comes on the basis of previous consent. I would say as a lawyer that this formulation in the law was extremely unprofessional and that it would indeed work and simplicity, for its purpose it was necessary to simplify it. On the other hand, the tax is defined by law and in this respect, the Supervisory Board cannot propose any general exceptions for persons with disabilities as category, although some categories of persons with disabilities are excluded from payment of the fee, and so on to pensioners. Since the fee is actually charged to the household, it would, of course, lead to considerable financial chaos because everyone or many live in a household with pensioners, so de facto everyone would be, all of them, paying a reduced fee. Certain outsoring applications were also mentioned in respect of legal services, since the Supervisory Board is the one who gives power to represent. I'd just say the principal can fix it. I think HRT's got four lawyers, four lawyers. I think it's certainly too small and that without the services of a lawyer, without a service, especially in the part where certain claims are charged so that it doesn't actually work. The question mentioned is that the Supervisory Board has been asked in some way for a report on annexes or work contracts, and we have provided data in one tape, we can re-deliver, of course, according to what is presented to us. The contracts themselves aren't secret, they're not secret to HRT bodies. Due to the provisions of the Labour Act which prohibits the exploitation of personal data, data cannot actually be supplied specifically related to a name and last name. So it's possible to give generic data but to give information about names and last names along with those generals that would go about the contract, it wouldn't be legal in the light of the Labour Act itself. He mentioned himself in one place and called the question staff costs. I think it's an accounting category, that it's actually called staff, and as far as HRT is concerned, it's actually staff costs because not only those who would be workers are calculated inside, but all those involved in any other way on HRT are calculated. There were two other questions that were said to all of us. I'll answer them even though I don't see any clear purpose. So one question is any cars we came here with. I came in a personal car, if necessary I can list Toyota, my father who left me here in front of the Parliament. And the second question was, on the occasion of some four, whether you know where they are or not, I really don't know what the tapes are about, or whether there are any tapes or tapes. That's so much from me. And, of course, I will try to make sure that everything that is here today in substance is presented in every subsequent report that we send you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71265	Thank you very much. And now we'll hear the replicas. First at Mr. Radman's presentation, Jasen Mesic please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71266	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Director, for a year and a half, we have advocated meeting in the Croatian Parliament, at least a dozen times we have interrupted the Assembly session and insisted on a discussion not since 2012, from 2011. We felt that this was to be discussed in April 2012 before the amendments and the addition of the law because it would be only logical and then we would conclude that we had a debate, then see what was wrong and go into the amendments and additions of the law. Of course we weren't allowed to do that. Don't be afraid, we won't lose motive to discuss HRT. We will certainly endure this, and we very much hold you to the word that you have said that you will answer every question because, in your peaceable, calm and measured address, we have not received an answer to any specific question of the 70 that you have mentioned, whether directly concerned or not with these reports. To begin with, it would be good if in the next final report of the Programme Council and this report mentioned by the chairman of the Supervisory Board, that goodwill you mentioned here for cooperation and for the speaker in the final address was seen from these reports, so that there is no information there that the Programme Council has not received any answers or that the Supervisory Board has not received any information. As far as we're concerned, we will certainly take this opportunity that you've told us and we will continue to talk about HRT, I hope that we will have the opportunity to talk again very quickly and believe that we share your concerns both for the present and for the future of HRT, an inappropriate responsibility that has been lawfully assigned to you but we are certainly sharing that care.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71267	The principal is neither in charge nor in charge when we are here to discuss here in the Parliament. I don't know why you've replicated it to him. Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71268	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Director, your goodwill must have been stalled in this House of Commons, whether by the Presidency of the Parliament or by the political will of the majority. Someone stopped you from coming almost two years in the fourth month will be, to come here, to discuss it. The debate is necessary because the Government of the Republic of Croatia has also supported the work of the Programme Council and all its allegations which clearly state that you were not consistent in implementing the law which requires you to meet the conditions proposed by the law. You didn't do it when you were looking for the program council. With full right, we should be looking for your shift. The government of the Republic of Croatia for what it wrote, should have said, I do not support this report and ask that the director be changed, as did all those who participated in this indignity that happened. This is what the Government of the Republic of Croatia wrote in her opinion. If you and your MPs have read it well, then speak clearly about it, warns that communication should be better, better quality, faster, in the interest etc. The information media service that should be the service of citizens and it is not fulfilled, so I believe that your offer can be good intentions and wills, the question is whether the party that manages and its coalition partners will allow you to be in this House again.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71269	In fact, there's no point in warning you anymore that when you replicate, that you're replicating the exposure that was and which... Please, colleague. The replica refers to the exposure, and none of what you've replicated had anything to do with the presentation of the director of HRT. [[Intruder: Unarticulated vote.]] Ante Babic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71270	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Radman, in your address in the end, you were very emotional, as much to the MPs, as much as to your relationship with HRT, and you made a good comparison. It didn't seem to me after your speech that everything that's going on on HRT was possible at all, and you were saying that the flat-rate is actually assessed without the verified information as much as I could or how well I followed you and that you needed to check that information before categorical claims. Then I was surprised that it was strange for me that you did not respond to any of the claims that were made today in the Croatian Parliament or that you at least tried to deny them, you did not do it either. Although I believe my colleagues in the opposition today did not want to mention certain things, and they were able to mention during the debate and the qualifications that come at the expense of the HDZ and about your conflict of interest related to... the facilities by the SDP. But the fact is that on HRT, and you finally said what was very, very strange to me is that unfounded fear is on HRT, and fear actually exists. HRT workers are afraid because of spoken words, they are afraid of spoken contributions, they are actually afraid of canceling, which I think is normal and understandable. And perhaps in the end here I can suggest to you if you really want to change or if you would regain your reputation for HRT employees, perhaps for the start of the good news would be a good slogan of the future, working on HRT "Future without Fear". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71271	Thank you very much. Sun Head, replica. These aren't the replicas you're replicating right now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71272	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Director, your 30 minutes were impressive, it was also in the right tone given this time, even if we were a little late in the night, it would be nice for a good night. As always, it is very pleasant to listen to you and it is very pleasant to hear a man who speaks for 30 minutes, yet doesn't answer a single question for us. We don't really know any more ways for you, maybe all the MPs to come to HRT, to sit there with you, to wait for you to answer our questions. We don't ask because I'm interested in it personally, we really don't ask for those reasons. We've seen and heard other than that the Program Council has a problem communicating with you or vice versa. There's no answer to questions. Mr. Radman you are the director of HRT, today it is you, tomorrow it will be someone else, you must not take your public function and public role personally, you must take it seriously. You're talking about strategies, you're talking about good intentions and one far more effective and well-known politician Winston Churchill said, "It's useless to talk, we're trying as hard as we can, you have to succeed in doing what is necessary," that's true for you, too. You took that mandate, no one I hope forced you to do so, and for this term you answer to the Croatian Assembly among other things. We will continue to question all of this that we have asked several times and will not give up. At any time, wherever you are, wherever you're represented, we'll be able to ask you questions. We leave our personal belongings at home, business matters are being settled here in this House that has chosen you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71273	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71274	Here, dear principal, you've heard a whole series of debates here, but you've heard a whole series of concrete questions, and I'm going to agree with my colleague, and I'm going to agree with my colleagues who said you didn't answer any of our questions for half an hour. Let's just say it would be good to hear, and the question here is repeatedly repeated, how many part-time employees are there? According to some information about 140, you as director know that. What's the split? And that's the question that's been going through all day. Why did you start restructuring first correspondence, not cutting the administration if it went that way? Now, I'll quote your words, you personally said, "Neither am I satisfied with the quality of the information program," and then you mentioned the staff, you set them up, compared with commercial television, normally we can't mention names, but far more quality, you have to agree in public with some commercial televisions that provide much, much more information in the information program than in yours. I would really like to hear from you, although we don't have time, at least for these three questions so that this story is broken, I believe, although the session is probably no longer being transmitted, that it's interested in our citizens, and especially those who pay the fee and not only pay that fee because there is a whole series of local, regional TV, Max TV, so much less watching HTV with this information program that you said yourself that you're not satisfied with either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71275	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71276	Dear Mr. Radman, you said in your statement that you were asking our parliamentary representatives individually and the Parliament as a whole to check the information before we discuss it, I fully agree to try to check the information, but those available. The chairman of the Supervisory Board Mr. Gotovina said we've sent you and the Supervisory Board requests several times, not because I'm interested in how much money anyone has, I don't care at all. Interested viewers, parliamentary representatives, citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Now we're changing the Labour Act we're going to ask Mr. Gotovina, who's an expert on labour law to help us with what articles we need to change so we can get that information, because I don't think that public money has the right to keep secrets, and he's spending public money, does that mean that it's being hunted in a blur. And another Mr. Director, I'd like to tell you one comment, you were talking about how you and television are peers. I'm one day older than television, now television is going to be 58 years old, not 57 years old. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71277	The response to Goran Radman's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71278	Thank you. I wouldn't just want it to feel like I didn't want to answer any questions. Almost all the issues raised outside the context of the 2012 report relate primarily to the business of HRT in 2013 which I believe will soon be subject to the report on the operation of HRT and then we will have an opportunity to discuss them all in the context. Nevertheless, I am prepared and open to each individual respected MPs to answer the questions asked directly, either in writing, or verbally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71279	We now have a replica of the exhibition of Ms. Nina Obulen Koržinek and that of Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71280	Thank you. So about this final address of yours, about the Program Council report. You know if the HDZ club is going to vote against him, it's not because of the work of the Programme Council, but because you listed in your report some things that require a reaction to certain repercusion. We also personally consider that the 2011 Programme Council report was well drawn up. Between your report to your council that you are chairing and that we do not see any significant differences that both could not be treated the same way. The government refused to listen to anyone from the Programme Council in the first place, and in some ways this report accepted, despite the fact that your report stated far more serious things and pointed out much more serious problems, among other things, that the commitments to the drama programme were not carried out. In this sense, however, I am pleased to say that the body chosen by such a consensus of parliamentary parties has shown that it can also be worked on this principle and that it is, in fact, the most concrete and most valuable part that we have had today, that absolute proof is to all those who claim that political consensus and the suggestion of professional people does not make any sense. It's very obvious today that there is and that it can work.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71281	And now we also have your replica of Mr. Victor Gotovina's exposure. A colleague of Mesic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71282	I'm pulling the line because I think we're going to be very soon... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71283	That concludes the debate. We'll vote on these reports later. Tomorrow we will continue the session at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Trade Act. Thank you very much. Session interrupted at 9:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71284	Now we have a situation I'd like you to back me up. Namely, respected representative Nedzad Hodzic asked for a break so that he could discuss the positions still under discussion, so the 2012 report on the implementation of the official development aid to the Republic of Croatia abroad is still going on, we have two other representatives reported, so that we can continue the vote with the clubs that asked for a break about this, or do you want to go straight to the break? ... Voting, thank you very much. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Thank you very much. Let's do the vote because we started and then we'll do it. Please make a statement. Report on the work of the HRT Programme Council and the implementation of the programme principles and obligations of the HRT established by the HRT Act and the contracts referred to in Article 13. HRT law. Report on the work of the HRT Supervisory Board and the Executive Board on the implementation of the supervision of the legality of work and financial operations of the HRT for the period 21 February 2011 to 8 May 2012. 2012 HRT Business Report; Annual Report of the HRT Programme Council for the period 19 November 2012 until 31 December 2013. Report on the work of the Supervisory Board on the implementation of the supervision of the legality of the work of the financial operations of the HRT in 2012. The debate on the reports is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: The report on the work of the HRT Programme Council on the implementation of the programme principles and obligations of the HRT established by the Law on HRT and the contract referred to in Article 13 shall not be accepted. HRT law. Please make a statement. What? [[Intruder: Conclusion.]] Yes, who is it, it's 1.a). [[Intruder: Who's for Lockup.]] Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. I find that the conclusion has been accepted... Here you go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71285	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, this is not exactly what's up because half of the ruling coalition's deputies didn't know how to vote, did not raise their hands, and by the rules, it counts as abstention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71286	Comrade, are you looking for a repeat vote, not a qualification, whether they knew it or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71287	Okay, I've come to half of my explanation. For this reason, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I request a re-vote and a re-count.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-18-0.u71288	It's okay. Should I read the conclusion or shouldn't I? You don't have to. I'm asking you to state who's in favour of the proposed conclusion. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I find that most votes, 86 votes in favour, 26 votes against and 4 abstentions, accepted the proposed conclusion in the text as proposed. Let's move on. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am giving the opinion: "The report on the work of the HRT Supervisory Board is not accepted, on the implementation of the supervision of the legality of the work of the financial operations of the HRT for the period from 21 February 2011 to 8 May 2012. "years." I'm asking who's in favor of pleading. Thank you. Who's against the conclusion? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 82 votes in favour, 26 votes against and 5 abstentions, have adopted the proposed conclusion. In line with the proposal of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The 2012 HRT Business Report is not accepted. a year." Please raise your hand and let us know who's in. Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find the conclusion accepted by most votes, 78 votes in favour, 32 votes against and 2 abstentions. Let's go to the next conclusion. In line with the proposal of the Information and Media Committee, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Annual Report of the Croatian Programme Council for the period from 19 November 2012 to 31 December 2013 is hereby adopted. "years." Please raise your hand and let us know who's in. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find the conclusion accepted by most votes, 79 votes in favour, 33 votes against and 3 abstentions. In line with the proposal of the Information Information and Media Committee of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The report on the work of the Croatian Supervisory Board and the implementation of the supervision of the legality of work and financial operations for 2012. a year." Please raise your hand and let us know who's in. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find the conclusion accepted by most votes, 77 votes in favour, 34 votes against and 2 abstentions. Thank you very much.
