ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75549	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and representatives of this House of Commons. This proposal confirms the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Croatia and the EBRD for the Modernisation of HZ-Infrastructure signed on 16 December 2013. Based on Article 7. On 10 October 2013, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided to initiate the procedure for the conclusion of a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the EBRD on a project to modernise the Croatian-Infrastructure and a decision to give consent to the conclusion of a loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the EBRD for that project. The authorised Croatian delegation held final negotiations with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on this Treaty and the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a report on the leading negotiations by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 12 December 2013 and authorised the Minister of Finance to sign a guarantee agreement. The contracts were signed in Zagreb on 16 December 2013. It is proposed to adopt this law by an emergency procedure, since its entry into force is a presumption of the entry into force of the guarantee contract, allowing the use of the loan. In order to improve the maintenance of the railway infrastructure, HZ-Infrastructure has launched a project to modernise HZ-Infrastructure within which the 40m-euro EBRD loan would finance three modernisation components. The first maintenance of the railway line, hence the purchase of new railway maintenance equipment at the estimated amount of EUR 20 million, which implies the purchase of new measuring vehicles, new snow cleaners and heavy motor.... Then, for the restructuring of the workforce, the amount of loans for the provision of excess workers is 19.5m euros and for the achievement of energy efficiency means the acquisition and installation of an information system for energy efficiency management, the amount of the loan to improve energy efficiency is 500 000 euros. The terms and conditions of the loan are the following, so a 40m-euro loan with a 15-year repayment deadline with the possibility of starting to pay off the principal for 3 years and an interest rate belonging to a 6-monthly eurobor plus 1% margin would return to 24 equal half-year wars over 12 years. The last date of the loan is 30 June 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75550	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the board presidents, the working bodies they've done want to file reports? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the HDZ Representatives' Club in the Croatian Parliament and distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75551	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, at today's debate session, there's one seemingly technical law, but when we look a little deeper, then we'll see that this law is far from technical, that it's very important, so its title does not in principle correspond to the purpose of using credit, because what the Deputy Minister has just said, just as you can read in the materials, it says here that the credit for the restoration and development of the HZ-Infrastructure Modernisation Project. If the procurement of HZ-Infrastructure equipment and practically money is to say for severance, that we do not use this money to restructure the workforce as it says in the documents, then you will see that the name of this item of the agenda does not correspond to the facts. However, what I would like to say, colleagues and colleagues, this law that we are discussing today is a potential skeleton that has been so talked about for the past two years because when you look at all the guarantees given to Croatian shipbuilding, which later came to you for the collection of the state budget, believe it in a very similar or identical way are explanations about the submission of financial plans, about taking over commitments and guaranteeing that the shipyards will return those loans. So if we don't implement the restructuring program, and we see what the HZ Cargo situation is, I'll talk about it later. Then today's decision to make is the potential skeleton of the future government. So much for skeletons, so much for those nine billion kunas that were said to have increased the government budget deficit in 2011. Because this amount of 40m euros with the corresponding interest in some future times if HZ Infrastructure cannot repay this loan will also increase the deficit to a future government. Also colleagues and colleagues, when I talk about this item of the agenda, then you should look at it, because here often depends on who belongs to what fraction, who watches what interest is often said how much money has been thrown in the shipbuilding for the past 15 years. On the other hand, it's said how much money was given to agriculture. However, when you look at the fact that, from 2004 to 2011, the average state budget provided about 2 and a half billion kuna for the Croatian railways, that in 2002 they bought famous and already slightly forgotten slope trains, that they bought nearly a billion kuna of spare parts, that in 2003 the amount of HZ was reduced but a short-term loan was raised from a billion and a half kuna returned later in 2004 and 2005. When we take guarantees of 2 billion and 200 million that have been in the past two years and when you add it all together, then you will see that in the past 14, 15 years, according to the Croatian Railways, about 30 billion kuna has been sent from the state budget. Why am I saying that? So I'm talking about why unfortunately a large part of HZ's infrastructure has been in areas that have been occupied since '91. '95. and practically as such one was mined, one was destroyed, and the question is how much that part of the infrastructure was restored and at what level was raised as regards speed, not to speak this story with tilted trains towards Split and along the railway road which was once the main one for Split. He went after that so-called. It's a Bosnian railroad. And so, if we draw the line of two thousand, two thousand and fourteen, then we can say that the budget for the past 14 years for the Croatian railways has been set aside by 30 and a few billion kunas. However, as well as the Croatian railways, as well as Croatian shipbuilding, as well as Croatian agriculture has connected companies that are accompanied by them economically, which we are programmeically following. So Croatia had one company that worked very well. That was Gredell. What do we have today after 30 billion invested in the last 10, 12 years? We have railroads that unfortunately cannot be driven by God knows how fast, we have the Gredel that is in bankruptcy, we have HZ Cargo which is in a very strange way tried to privatize, and it is not privatized and probably going towards bankruptcy. But you also shouldn't look at everything negative. My colleagues and colleagues, when we argue here about the use of pre-accession funds, then we can say that they are railways, i.e. The Ministry of Finance and Railways, part of the Ministry of Transport, was very successful. Because when you look nominally, then you will see that some key directions and la railway Vinkovci – Factory of some 70 million euros are also funded by EU funds. That this railway code, between Nova Gradiška and Novska of some 30m euros, is now being praised by fellow Greeks. It was agreed and negotiated from 2010 to 2012, as well as a new station in Vinkovci which is being opened these days with which some others are being praised. These are all EU funds. Why am I saying that? So I'm saying what's evident if you know what you want to do and if you offer a quality program, and I think two directions in Croatia are of great interest to the European Union. It is the direction from the Slovenian border to the border with Serbia, in fact three directions. So that part of the Hungarian border towards Bosnia and Herzegovina, so down towards the port of Ploče and the one that is looking at us in real economic terms, perhaps the most interesting is the railway Rijeka – Zagreb - Botovo. And if we were able to withdraw more than 100 million kuna from pre-accession funds that have been training us to use EU funds for railways, then the question is why have we lost this much time without funding key routes and key investments in Croatian railways from EU funds. We're taking a loan, and when you look at this loan, we're going to use 20 million euros, or to turn it into kuna, it might be a little bit closer, and then it sounds more bombistic. It's somewhere around 155 and a half million kuna, used for what the law says is labour restructuring. That should simply be said for the severances of those workers who were thought to be fired as surpluses. Let's not be here now, because I know the minister likes to use English expressions, then some English expressions are very much when you literally translate them then that sounds like a labour restructuring. If we do say it in our own way, then it's a cancellation severance, not so everyone understands us. So, we're going to use this 155 loan and some other million kunas to make severance payments to extra workers in HZ infrastructure. And 155 million kuna will be used to build HH infrastructure. Now there's one question to ask. On the one hand, you fire workers, and on the other hand you buy equipment. Who will work on that equipment, and from what means will it be maintained, refurbished with that equipment? I am pleased to continue this project of editing the railways so to say city characters this part of Zagreb towards Dugi Sel and this part of Zagreb towards Velika Gorica and Sisak because it is simple and should be city trains. However, they had moves regarding the Croatian Railways, now I will talk about the company as a whole, because an attempt to divide this company into several companies and privatise itself has proved almost invaluable. For the simple reason that you today travel from Vinkovec to Zagreb then this trip lasts for 2 or 3 hours, the most question arises is whether HZ, with a fast train not with what goes slowly. The second thing, with the highway, you can come in two hours and then you ask yourself how many things you need to compare, but why did I say that? These two, three or four hours can be drawn up, but one real question is asked, and that is one company that is singled out and that is HZ catering. Does HZ hospitality as such need Croatian railways? Once on a journey to Split 12, 13 hours, then the logical thing is that this catering service on trains etc. She should have. So I'm only talking about some segments that were all part of HZ, today the whole focus is placed on two companies, HZ infrastructures and HZ cargo. And to finish, colleagues and colleagues, so today we're making a decision on a potential skeleton. I'm going to use the termology because I can't possibly accept that today is a development loan, and that the credit the state has been guaranteeing over the past 12 years, which was a shipbuilding, is today said to be a skeleton. Because if that's the skeleton, then this is the skeleton. Because HH infrastructure, no matter what happens to it, won't be able to repay this loan. He just won't be able to get it back. Someone can buy it, someone can do whatever they want with it, it can eventually cover those costs at the time when it is either restructured or anything with it, it will be able to cover those costs, and all inherited costs and loans will unfortunately fall on the burden of the state because it will not be able to repay that loan. But also if we want to help this company, then we need to give it a chance. And was it exactly out of and out of the empty HH cash register that you were supposed to buy a track at the DIOKI and make some other moves that's a question for yourself? I think it's a key question, and I expected the deputy minister to come from Kvarner to say something about what the plans are finally like with that river track. Because only restoring the Rijeka railway and increasing speed on the Slovenian border-Zagreb border with Serbia is something that guarantees that Croatian railways regardless of what they are called both HZ infrastructure and HZ cargo and Gredelj and all together, and let us not forget that over a billion kuna is set aside for the purchase of locomotives. And if we don't have a clear plan, then the question is, who's going to privatize it together for no money tomorrow and drive practically with new locomotives? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75552	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's go to the replicas. Dear Representative Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75553	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Shuker, I agree with you that the title or name of this law, i.e. The proposed law does not correspond to what should be the purpose of this loan. But there's something else that bothers me. When we had the draft budget, I opened the story of the loan given to us by the European Investment Bank. This is about the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. We have two practices with this government today. This loan is claimed to be invaluable, that we cannot operate with it, it is only 25 million kunas of funds or liabilities, 25 million euros for the development of regional space, for the construction of infrastructure, etc. There's no money for that. And then only a month after that, there's money for something else. The government itself determines what she thinks is most important to her. And we can accept that. But we find it unacceptable the way they explain it to us. Because if there's one, it should be for the other. This is how we get into a situation where these loans come in on a charge we've heard at some other time. We're being told and we're being told that we left skeletons in the closet. I think when we look at the statistics on HZ itself, it's clear that we don't know where we're gonna end up with this company. It all came down to the dismissal of workers and the fact that in the past two years, only 2.3 projects that remained projected by the previous government and that the harder and harder Minister Doncic is dealing with the problems he has in his portfolio. I'm afraid a contract like this will also help us, given that this company will lose its main substance, which is the people who are being fired, and it's not possible that the privatisation of only one part of the company, HZ Carg, will take any responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75554	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75555	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank and the World Bank serve because they have a lower interest rate, have a longer return period, meaning less burden and burden for many years is for the restructuring of companies. As well as regional equality of development, EIB credit 1, 2, 3 and how many have already been used to assist local self-government units on islands and in areas of special state concern. However, fellow Boric, when you look at this loan, then it is very strange to say that 20m euros will be used to obtain equipment. However, I have read very well all these pages of the contract, and I have not seen anywhere which equipment will be obtained and what credit will be used. Apparently, a 20m-euro locomotive is purchased, and at the same time, according to some information, such a locomotive costs 6m euros or 8m euros. So it's really not clear to me. The best story, however, is the restructuring of the severance labour force. Well, it would make sense that someone gave information about how many people in HZ are, the infrastructure plans to fire and how much money will be spent on their severance, what it will be, whether it's negotiated with the unions, and ultimately, that process takes a long time. So, a lot of, a lot of questions, but this loan could be called if it's used for what it's used for, a loan to restructure and release into HZ infrastructure, and not for what it's called.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75556	Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75557	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, you obviously haven't travelled on the Vinkovci-Zagreb route or from Tovarnik to Zagreb, so the initial border with Serbia or Vojvodina, and you said in the first wave that it lasted two hours. There is no train or expression or one that I don't know what to call myself, but either I don't know what to call it or I don't know what to do in Germany because there are fast trains that drive from Vinkovac to Zagreb less than 4.5 hours, 4.5 hours it's the fastest one can get by train from Vinkovac to Zagreb. In addition, when we talk about restructuring the railway or this loan, how are you going to restructure the railway when you put people in it that are just similar and not professional? Here's an example of one here when she says that there's a woman set up for the head of the board and otherwise she went from Cinestar to the railroad, and when she got there, she asked if there's a number of types of cars, that's how many of those personnel that were put on the railroad, just to say one little example, and what we're investing in and what we're borrowing in, and who's going to take advantage of these loans? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75558	Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75559	Coliga Grubišić, I have cited this time more as some basis for thinking about whether certain activities in HZ are needed or not, but you must agree that with the car without breaking the speed limit by 2.5.3 hours without a problem, you come from Vinkovac to Zagreb, therefore the railway must strive to have at least that time, but then it should be stated somewhere that it is a program of HZ development, that it wants to achieve that, that and that. That's a fact. But I was this time when I was saying from Vinkovec to Zagreb that there was once a journey twice as much as what you said and then the logical thing was that someone was carrying coffee or something on the train, that it was. So I was talking about that part of cutting the former HZ and some companies that no one wanted to buy, but nobody was interested in them or even what modern in this government said was not interested in outsourcing services.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75560	The most beautiful fried chicken is in the railroad. Honorable representative Vedran Babic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75561	Thank you. Here's a respected colleague, I would have listened very carefully to your debate, and in large part I would agree with you and with your assessment of how much money has been spent in the Croatian Railways in the last ten years, but it is definitely the same fact that almost a billion and a half kuna has been spent this year, that the Vinkovci-Tovarnik project, the state border, has also completed a project of signal-safe devices on the main station of Zagreb, and that the works are under way Okukani-Novska and obviously there has been some preparation, but to prepare significantly larger projects. As for the skeletons in the closet, I wouldn't call it a closet skeleton here we're supposed to be 150 there's nothing hidden, it's known that half of that loan to take care of workers so here you are simply asking us not to use that termology right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75562	Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75563	Well, fellow Babic, we fully agree. I just wanted to say without any malpractice, anything that should simply be called the same name. So, I said that probably in three or four years, HZ infrastructure won't be able to repay this loan, and since the state gave the guarantee and according to the ESA in 2010, if the guarantee can't be returned for three years then it counts as a deficit for whoever gave the guarantee, so I said it was a skeleton. Why? Because as well as all the guarantees given to Croatian shipbuilding you had neatly in the draft budget, you also had in order the report, the implementation of the budget until the last June every guarantee given to Croatian shipbuilding. Therefore, these guarantees of the day to Croatian shipbuilding were nothing this High House had not discussed, it had no opportunity to say its opinion but there was something familiar. The fact that at some point because of the bad situation it turned into actually the state took over that part on itself but I said that you probably heard that when we signed a loan guarantee that was given to Croatian shipbuilding by some other, very similar or almost identical reasoning to this that they had to submit financial reports, that they had to do this, that they had to, that they had to, that they were going to pay back those loans and interest, so it all says here. Why? Because I've reviewed not one such contract, and so I've just tried to say that it's not good at a given time for political purposes to use some term and at the same time you're so big that in three or four years, it's going to produce exactly the same thing as this one, because these 40 million euros or 300 million kunas plus those 2 billion and 300 guarantees that have been slowly raising us to 2 billion 600, 2 billion 700 that will surely fall to the burden of the state budget in some years and will increase the deficit. So that's what I was talking about, nothing else though...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75564	Thank you very much. The Croatian Labourists, the club of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Mladen Novak are on their way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75565	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Since I'm one of those guys who's always trying to advocate railways and invest in railways, I'd expect to support this without any fence. But I won't. I won't do it for a few reasons, and I'll list them all. A fellow Shuker mentioned the explanation here, among other things, for the purchase of new equipment for the maintenance of railway vehicles, I won't mention the severance, it was immediately clear to everyone, although it was wrapped in cellophane, but on the board I asked the Deputy Minister if it really meant that, maintenance of railway infrastructure? Mr. Deputy Minister replied, yes, but apparently he wasn't quite prepared, so he wasn't so sure. I see this session has been prepared, so it's just like I checked what it's about, so it's about the measuring car, it's about the snowboarding vehicles, and it's about these severances. But this loan-lifting, except my predecessor said that today, tomorrow, he's going to call again what stories about skeletons from the closet, reminds me of the law of a coupled vessel. What's with the law of the combined bowls? Now we're putting no small funds into this HZ, into HZ infrastructure, and at the same time we're selling part of HZ infrastructure, we're selling a company called Pručna ravine, and this company that the media wrote about has agreed a billion kuna jobs, and it's being sold for 250 million kuna. For those of you who don't know, this company is dealing with the maintenance of railway infrastructures. Now, since, let's say, I know the system a little bit better, so then I went to the site of this Pručna konstručina company, and then I found out that even journalists didn't give themselves too much effort because it wasn't one billion but signed contracts for 2.4 billion kuna. Here, I'm reading from their official pages. So, we sell the company, HZ infrastructure, part of HZ infrastructure that deals with maintenance of rail infrastructure, which is basic business, we sell for 250 million kuna, a company that successfully operates, which is currently one of the strongest construction companies in Croatia, which could penetrate both the BiH market and the Serbian market and all other countries of the former Yugoslavia and even wider, given that both Bulgaria and Romania and Albania are the market on which it could be. And on the other hand, we're raising that loan here. I personally don't know Mr. Cwitan, if I remember correctly, but I think... State's attorney, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But I think this would be a very good-looking story, and it's for the State's Attorney's Office, that's to say, for the BOOK, because no one's going to convince me that this is some kind of concrete rational move. But I'm going to mention some more rational and resolutional moves. Here's my colleague Bencic sitting right in front of me, and when I say four rivers, he's probably having his heart played out because it's associated with a Karlovac. The Association of Four Rivers is a defense association that got the job of decommissioning the colossals. This association has lost that job probably because, so I heard in..., because of some malfeasance or whatever, in any case they fell out of the game and then a new defense association, I don't know if my colleague Djakic hears me since it's about defense associations, a new defence association called Kopa Beach appeared. Kopa Beach is registered the day before the signing of the contract with HH infrastructure for the installation of the track between Sisak and Sisak-Podravlje or specifically from Petrinja towards Karlovac. The pure profit is predictable somewhere, only at the sale of that material, means by the length of the meter, how much one rail is heavy, one rail when the colossal equipment that goes next to it is sold, the thresholds for which we no longer take care of where they end, and at the same time we made the whole fam. The net profit is somewhere around 10 million kuna. We've got 1700 employees in the Spring Building, 1700 artificially created, that company had about 700, 800 people if I remember well and very successfully doing business. Then she was restructured, they were put in, they were added to her, they were added to companies that weren't doing so well that it would be extra burden on her, and let's say this job where we don't pay anyone anything and we practically make money, these people earn their salary, and we don't give it to them. Such companies should be destroyed. According to the latest information, I don't know if it's true, the Internal Audit is dealing with it, but my experience, given that I spent 30 years in that system, I'm afraid that what it finds to be an actual state of internal audit, won't be very much. In this regard, I do not question the quality of the work of people who work in internal audit, but simply do their own work, and there is the end of the story. Now, given that the Copa Beach Association is from Sisak and I am also from Sisak. In my opinion, the information available is about a defence association whose complete composition is from the SDP. Is it a coincidence or is it some future let's tell Fimi Media, though not these proportions but so far we see only the tip of the ice dream, who knows what's underneath it. He mentioned my predecessor driving towards Vinkovci, or towards the east, my colleagues reacted, I didn't want to, one thing is certainly working on it, and I hope that in some near future we will have real to track Zagreb-Tovarnik let's say how competitive 150, 160km of speed can be a competitive road. But interesting construction site in Okucani, believe it or not, the official language on the site was not Croatian. Okay. The contractors are officially Italians but the language spoken at the site, you do not have those high-ranking Romanians. We have so many unemployed people, we have so many people in the system that we're pushing out, but on these kinds of jobs, we don't have a chance, our spring buildings don't stand a chance, but we're going to do what's right now, not just outsiders, but domestic ones that are competing that are supposed to be competitive in these jobs. He also mentioned my previous but some in the replicas of the daughter's company, all of which were systematically destroyed on purpose, I responsibly claim. No matter who you talk about get a little deeper into it, you'll see it's true. But I also claim that at this point, companies are systematically destroyed within the HH system. Tape with HZ Cargo, is it normal that HZ Cargo can't get a locomotive from traveller's HZ. We have, however, created this by dividing HZ which is totally guilty, totally wrong by law, and we have been completely misinformed when we are told that this is said by the EU directive, it is not a ton. In the end, ministry representatives also confirmed that there was a mistake that it was not so prescribed. But now we have a situation where the competition of this HZ Cargo appears. There has been competition in the form of a private investor and this same competition can obtain locomotives from the passenger transport Hz to be licensed at all. And now watch out for dubiosis, HH all three segments of HH are owned by the state. The state does not allow or the assembly is one that is asked among other things, and the ministry does not allow HZ Cargo to receive locomotives in the rental of HZ Traveller but allows the privateer to do the same. The tender for 450 cars that are now being sold and going would not be trusted by man contracts but prepared before the tender is completed, probably only that candidate remains in the offer, these wagons will likely end up with the same privateer. And now we have another dubiosis going on, and then we hear that from insiders from HZ or Aguit's daughter's company, that same private has come up with information under which conditions are being transported, say, a boxy from Bosnia to Hungary. Between 800,000 and a million tons of goods, we're being taken over by a private. Now I'm looking at a colleague who's also been doing the same time in HZ system, so I know that he knows very well what it means for HZ that it's about 12% of the year's burden, and it's the minister as a congregation is the assembly of these companies in the ministry to issue those licences, and that's all right. If there's a need somewhere in some vault for the State's Attorney's Office to work, then believe me, that's it. All segments want air transport, you want rail transport, you want Croatian roads and highways and highways Rijeka-Zagreb in everything believe me would find material for the work of the State's Attorney's Office. Now, given that we've got a man who really promises his statements and frankly gives me confidence, I hope that at least something will be done on this point so that we can say that we're really going to go into what we've been supposed to do for years to fight corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75566	Thank you, Your Honor. We've got a few replicas now, so we'll go in order. Dear Representative Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75567	Comrade Novak, you have rightly opened the story of the company Pručna konstručina, the company daughter of HZ-Infrastructure, because it is an interesting story that is trying to stay away from the public eye, and something is happening today and in the tourist sector, which is happening in some other possible privatisations. From the media we have had the opportunity to find out perhaps only one small part, but is constantly avoiding the essence, and the point is whether if we privatise this company we need Croatian railways in the first place. Will anyone, if HZ-Infrastructure can weld any rails, repair any turning points if you sell or privatise railway buildings. But it's not a failed company, that company has a profit of over 100 million kuna, and we're selling it for 250. And when we sell it, we sell not only paper, we sell buildings with which it was recapitalised, we sell land, we sell signed contracts that measure how you said in billions. Whose interest it is, which is why it should be done in the first place when it is the basic substance of this society and we need clear information from the authorities about what it is, why we are selling a successful company in the tourism sector. What are the interests behind it, because if this government has been constantly reaching out to the story for two years and saying that there are skeletons out of the closet all the time, do we have the right to say that when they leave the government with this kind of behavior that will remain a mass grave behind them? That's the basic question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75568	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75569	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Comrade Boric, you are absolutely right about everything, all of what you said I support, with what has another addition. There's something on the railroad called security, generally in traffic security should go first. Just modernize all the railroads, bring them to perfection, make it all wonderful and wonderful, all the way I suppose we all would like. The question arises as to who will maintain this system, or who will take care of the security and control of that system. We're currently unfortunately working on who knows which times in HH negative selection. Not long ago, counterpart Grubisic mentioned one of these cases earlier, but there was not long one case that was more media-attractive. He was attractive for reasons, because individuals from the executive authority worked hard for some people to keep their seats, and we can even say that maybe it's human, we're all flesh and blood people. But also now with this selection, this same person with a year or two working hours and the same professional training stays at the workplace, and a 30-year-old person who knows the system as a whole, complete, now becomes a technological surplus, just because he's not part of a party, is not part of a clan, is not part of a family. Is that normal? And then we have a situation that we need something that's everyday work, we need to do it in action, there's no one, there's just no one.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75570	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75571	Thank you very much. Comrade Novak, I've raised a replica before you said what I wanted to replicate, but we can repeat what you said. So, it's a sale of 400 or 450 as you said to a private company's cars, besides that HZ-Cargo still exists even though the scheduled layoff of 800 workers, but other major failures were made, I'd say the pests that led HZ-Cargo actually to destruction. At the same time, a private company that would actually, in some ways, replace a simple boom, and here you're saying there's a traffic of 800,000 to a million tons. We know that about 20,000 more jobs are tied to HZ-Cargo, starting with the workers of Luke Rijeka, from Petrokemija Kutina, here from Gredelj and I don't know who not all of them are, in Zagreb is, but despite this, the policy of this government has led to the fact that HZ-Cargo is simply not on his knees but is actually on his knees, despite the dismissal of employees and all other moves. Simply incompetence of personnel placed inside HZ both in Infrastructure and in Cargo, as well as moves that are being drawn, goes to the fact that I don't know what this railway will be aware of, I think it will be much more railways and better rail traffic than in the modern Croatian state at the time of Austro-Hungarian.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75572	Replicate response, distinguished representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75573	Thank you very much. Just to correct you in one piece. I didn't say that a certain privateer has a job of 800 000 or a million tons of goods, but that there are indications that this job will be given to him. On the way to his insiders, he gets information, and he's very likely to get it. Such rumors are circulating, I can't claim it the same as none of these people are likely to now confirm in fear for their workplace. And what a mobbing government in HZ and what a state it is right now, it's real, I've worked at that company for 30 years, but something like this that's never happened now. And since I've mentioned that I've worked for 30 years at that firm, then I'll mention that when I started working as a train driver for Belgrade, so to speak. Matoš drove 3 hours 59 minutes on the route Zagreb – Belgrade. And now, about four and a half hours, he only drives to Vinkovci and how. You mentioned between the others and Gredell. I expected to hear in the debate from the deputy minister or that the minister would show up once, that he would descend to that level of ours, that he would also appear here in the Parliament, to hear his apparition, to see what with Gredelia. I met him, we met together, Mr. Deputy, and you were in the ministry. Then it was said somewhere in mid-January that Gredelj was coming out of bankruptcy. People ask what's wrong with them? What about their fees, what about their severances, what about 44 trains, what about a pompous EBRD loan? There's a lot of nice things said, and there's nothing to realize.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75574	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Shimo Djurdjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75575	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Novak, in your debate, I expected as an employee who spent 30 years in the Croatian Railways to support the proposal to build HZ infrastructure on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club. However, in your debate, you have listed cases that are for UskoK, DORH, etc. You have not said in any segment under which terms you and your club would accept, vote for this item of the agenda. And I can say that only in the last meeting of the Croatian Parliament, I talked about the fact that we invested in Croatian highways, and that little, not a little bit, but a lot of the HZ Infrastructure and that, when it comes to Croatian roads at European and world level, we have to reroute some of the funds towards the Croatian railways mainly to those European corridors, and that is where we personally and myself from the Croatian Democratic Community are expected to finance it through Croatia's entry into the European Union, and this is from the European Union funds, if it is necessary for us to co-finance a part of the Croatian state from the programme. However, these guarantees, which will be issued tomorrow, say that someone else will have to repay them. And to me in that sense, it's not good and it should have stood in this material up to the details of which segment, which part of it is financed from these funds for which we will issue guarantees tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75576	Thank you, too. Replicate response, distinguished representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75577	Thank you very much. At the beginning of my debate, I noted on behalf of the club that I had asked the same question to the deputy minister at a committee meeting. Is this what it says here or does it say something quite tenth? Or that's what we both learned in the meantime that it was about the purchase of measuring cars, goods and, among other things, the severances for workers. Why isn't it done I don't know, I can't answer what needs to be answered by a representative of the ministry. But I can have, I don't know, some bad ideas, but I don't. To be honest, I think this is a clamper, because unquality materials have been prepared. If there were much less confusion here, it would say that that's what we heard in the opening statement that it was written in the opening part, and then it would be clear to everyone it wouldn't be a question. This is how you always open doubts about whether it's just that or what we've heard from each one of our sources. You mentioned the subinvestment of HZ infrastructure. I would add the sub-investment of both our operators through and through, it is not only about the Croatian state. This lasts even before the Croatian state, the subinvestment of the railway system. But you asked the question under what conditions would the Croatian Labour Club support such a proposal? They would support it if there were a transport strategy, if there was a transport strategy from which you can see what Croatian railways, which is their direction, are what they want. And if with everything, all the means were to behave transparently, if not for Kopa Beach associations, four rivers, and things like that, because these are the means that can stay in the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75578	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75579	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75580	Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75581	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Novak, I don't work in this system or I've ever worked and I certainly don't know that area the way you do. But every time I heard that announcement that there would be a low-rise line, then let's say the valley every time I was looking forward to it. And today, when I see this proposal as much as you do, when I see an improvement in infrastructure, I welcome it, and I look forward to it, and then, of course, when I hear your discussion and reasoning, then there's always that, but. There is always that but, because the fundamental objective is to dispute that in the railway as much as possible increase the transport of cargo of passengers etc. And then in those circumstances when I see that let's say strategically that Botovo,... Rijeka – Zagreb – Botovo when I see further Hungary continues transport then I see certain logic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All the indicators I know there, Botovo has always had extremely high loads, loads of cargo and transport. The other old Djekenjish is also there, so that's the entrance, has a signed contract with Hungary with their MAV and so on. And now what's going on? In reality, it happens that these two stations, both Botovo and Djekenjiš, are reducing the number of employees, of course, as a result of that, and it smells to me of something that will not contribute to this fundamental goal means increasing burden loads. And then every game, the structure of whatever it is if something is lifted, I don't believe it will lead to this strategic goal of increasing the burden. And so I also think loudly that it is of course not good for the railways and for the basic purpose of which the railways serve. Here's my one thought that certainly isn't good, and our field workers are very concerned about their existence and the continued functioning of the railroads.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75582	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75583	Thank you very much. You've evoked my memories a little. When I started working on the railroad, then there was this railroad that was called "The Railwayman." And now it's in there, '82. For years, it has been written about the realisation of the Zagreb-Rijek railway and I don't know any more railways. And now I'm so excited to brag to the boss here, look, boss, you saw it, and then he tells me to shut up when I get to the railroad there in the '30s. And some of them were talking about building a low-rise railroad and to this day, none of it. And you're gonna retire, and none of that is gonna happen. Unfortunately, he was right. The boss is always right. As far as this other problem is concerned, which is actually the biggest problem right now, in my opinion, is the personnel puzzles inside HH. What we're doing right now is I don't know what to call it, it's systematic destruction of the HH inside. A system has been designed to say the border station, that the port station remains completely unoccupied. And now I'm interested, and with what people do you intend to carry those burdens? It's a selection done by the principle of us four, five, we're good, and now I know this here, you know that one. And who we need in the system, who we need for the process of work, that's absolutely irrelevant. A situation that hasn't been in the plates for a long time is precisely the fruit of such structures. And does anyone need that? The minister said on the board, one time when he had his apparition, then he said he couldn't bear responsibility for the management decisions. And who's gonna handle it? What now the administration has gone, destroyed everything behind them, and now what? Done?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75584	Thank you very much. My colleagues will report you to the head of the party to hold a circle in the Parliament without reporting it. You've had a circle there for 20 minutes, I'll report you. And now the esteemed representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75585	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague Novak has ties to the railroad but also to many other areas of life. You offered me a line because you mentioned a site and a language that you heard and heard there. So it's actually a matter or a problem of work permits. You rightly point out at a time when we have such an enormously large and worrying number of unemployed issues is how it is possible to import labour. So it is a matter of working permits decided by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So I remembered before here three, four years ago, a detail when the government I led refused to give a permit for 1,500 labour permits to import labour force, remember? So, for a shepherd's occupation. And then there was no one who didn't hit, first of all by me, in terms of the messages, who made us all go to be shepherds and to watch over the sheep. And it was the fact that at that point, the Croatian Employment Service at the government's request and my reply was that about 75 thousand people who were then registered at the Employment Office could do that. 1 entrepreneur looking for 100 for example shepherds and making very decent salaries of some 3,000 kunas, means of transport, mobiles, asked for 100, 2 reported. So that's what we're talking about in this context. And here I am going to ask myself to see how many work permits have been issued in this year. And you mentioned defenders, associations, I'm guessing it's about Croatian defenders' cooperatives, so it's about a little lapus. But we should discuss work permits in particular and not just the Government in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75586	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75587	Is this about the defenders standing, but good. I hope you don't mind. As far as working permits, or the language that's spoken below, I honestly didn't allude to, I know, I understand why it reminded you of that, but I didn't go to those work permits, but I went to the fact that we in the system have, in this HZ system, there are these railway buildings where we currently have 1700 employees that we're driving to the street, which we're practically destroying consciously instead of taking advantage of these people here. I know it's always a story to watch the business they got the Italians didn't get our firm can't take as a subcontractor of the Croatian firm. Then how can it bring Romanian labour to black? I mean everything, if you want to solve something, then you'll figure it out, but if you don't want to, then you'll find a thousand excuses why you couldn't solve it. "Mogli" what's under the quotes, and it's really simple that there's a lack of goodwill, and now maybe some interest in the background of all that we can only doubt, we can't prove. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75588	Honorable representative Vedran Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75589	Thank you. Dear colleague, here I was thinking of giving my replica, as well as starting a replica as my colleague Djurdjevic, I really expected you to speak a little and affirmatively when it comes to HZ infrastructure. In the first place, for one reason, 2.5 billion kuna will be invested during this year. Almost a third of these projects are in your area. You know it's about the Greda-Sunja-Nova-Turpolje-Velika Gorica, reconstruction of Sisak Station, a walking guide in Sisak, Caprak, and I thought it would be one of the motives to give some of the positive in this story. Of course, I'm also surprised by what you said and mentioned the state's attorney's office and things like that. Probably one of the state's attorneys is watching this debate of ours, if not for you to engage in it. Although I don't think there should be any problem and that this ministry and the directors of our companies aren't dealing with that sort of thing. Here, I'm asking you, perhaps, to answer affirmatively in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75590	Here's a response from the esteemed representative of Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75591	Thank you very much. Well, you heard the first part of my argument, or the first sentence was affirmative. I always support investment in the Croatian railways and I see you well prepared, given that you went into an analysis of all these projects that are currently in realisation, so I will tell you just as well as the information, when the project of reconstruction of Sisak station was launched and I was from Sisak at the time I warned, I should ić, this project has been since the 1980s, in order not to be fooled, it is not a new project. That's when I warned people to change the project because it's adapted to the needs of the '80s. That was when Sarajevo, Split, Belgrade, was standing on the station. Now these trains are gone, these passengers are gone, and there's no need anymore. And we went for those who know, we went to Sisak to dig a hiker, Sisak who is wherever you stick a shovel in the ground will run the cohorts of the Romans everywhere, and now what's happening to us? All the work stands and we've got a crew of brushes and they're working. And fine, there was a warning, people don't do that, it made sense in some other time when there were far more passengers, when it had some logic, some justification, this now, frankly, for me is one of the biggest failures there is. The reconstruction of the railroad absolutely supports, I commend, all the rest of this that you've listed, I sign everything, every honor but there's no point in keeping quiet about what the failures are.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75592	Thank you so much for everything. Dear Representative Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75593	Your Honor, Mr. President. Comrade Novak, I agree with a lot of things you've said but it seems to me that you came here after morning hypnosis sessions because you've said some things that just don't make sense to me. For example. that it was a defense association from the SDP, I don't know, so they ran away when it was necessary to raise a hand for Croatia from the Parliament, when it started shooting, you fled to the double rooms and locked down, which defence association it could be from the SDP, it could be an individual case. Is that clear to you or don't you get it? I don't know. You said it was for severance. We should be criticizing the government, but that's where the horses fled the barn a long time ago, there's no use talking about work, because otherwise they pay the severance money and then sell it. The government didn't say if it would then remain a state-owned company. If it's going to stay state ok. Let the severance be paid but what if we won't pay for the private tomorrow to get the mukts but what I disagree with you and what you said about the current minister of trust, Minister of Transport Hajdash, is, that's what you said, giving me confidence. I don't trust him. Whatever he touched, everything fell apart and nothing happened, did he touch Croatia Airlines, out of it nothing? If he touched the airport, we don't see shovels. Did the Peljeski bridge work in a way that he paid the French to let hundreds of thousands of euros tell him the French when it's more expensive that corridor over Neum than the Peljeski bridge because it should later pay this and that. Whatever it is, HZ CARGO ruined the job, I'm not saying he ruined CARGO, so whatever he touched, he didn't do anything, he actually did it all wrong. And how can this man put his trust in you?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75594	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75595	Thank you very much. Well, I'll start at the end. You heard me wrong. I'm about the minister, you didn't listen very carefully. I haven't said a word of praise for the minister, and I don't think of anything like that. No, for Mr. Dink Cwitan, I told the new man in DORH that the man had given me confidence and that I believed what he was saying seemed convincing and that I had no reason to doubt before he started and that I believed that if he found it appropriate to enter this segment and that in this department every segment was matured for her work, each. That's what I said, therefore, that doesn't mean I'm supporting the minister, it's absolutely the opposite. As far as the Defense Association is concerned, I did not say that it was an SDP Defence Association, but that with a strange set of circumstances, all SDP people are on that executive board or whatever their body is called. You asked whether the company would remain state-owned and if the government were to be manifest about it then it would make sense. Well, now I'm going to remind all of us, when we had our own time not so long ago, one of the laws on the railroad that we then warned about allowing more infrastructure managers and that this practically meant the possibility of privatizing certain parts of the railroad. If you remember my colleague Bacic here assured me that he thought I didn't get it right and that it wasn't going that way, and that's exactly what you deputy confirmed to me that that's exactly what it means. For this reason, we all fear what this government will do about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75596	My colleague Marasovic, I think that God's transparency has given you that you are a doctor, not a judge. That's very good. Yeah. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs, it's the Independent and Honorable Representative Caine's turn. Grubisic, Cain writes. They agreed on how to...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75597	What are you nervous about? Okay, when we talk about this... The Honorable President, Deputy Minister, gentlemen of the Parliament, is about one standard contract, it's about good money, we're all aware of that. Otherwise, the total value of EBRD investments in Croatia since '94. The year amounts to over 2.7 billion euros for 148 projects with a total value of around 7.7 billion euros. So the EBRD gives 2.7, this second is another 5 billion euros in RH funds. The sector-wide funding structure is the following, financial institutions 24%, infrastructure 30%, including both railways and energy, 20%, entrepreneurship 26%. Of the total number of completed projects, they dominate in the private sector, 64%, and since '94. 3 public loans have also been signed with the EBRD. Total amounts mean 54m euros and 20 loans with a state guarantee, totalling 665.8m euros. Exactly as he said or as everyone has observed in the last 15 years, more than 30 billion kuna has been invested in the railroad. This contract began to mean a 40m-euro loan, the 40m-euro loan was intended, means 20m euros for the purchase of new maintenance equipment, then 19.5m euros financing part of the cost of the borrower's labour restructuring programme, or as we would call it severances and clearly with about 500 000 euros, it is the purchase and installation of an information system for energy efficiency management. This means 40m euros and I agree with Mr Shuker that such railways as Croatia are hardly able to recover these funds themselves and will have to be taken over by the Republic of Croatia. I can't think at all that these assets could be abused. Control, the supervision of international these associations is such that it simply makes it impossible. But speaking of railways, that 300 million kuna, it's a big money for the Republic of Croatia, but it's only a drop in the sea of our needs. Maybe I'll, I don't know, look misunderstood, it doesn't matter, but I'll at least mention this train tunnel through Ucka. Everyone mentions their stripes, so I'll mention Ucka train tunnel or Ćicarija. The ancient dream, meaning the great bishop, the realtor, the Uniter of Dobrila about connecting Istria with other parts of Croatia, cannot be realized. And I have the impression too that it'll probably be a few more decades before that happens. But what am I saying? That Istria when we talk about the railway is isolated, that the railway from Pula you must, when you pass by, say, Buzet, when you enter Slovenia, when you pass Kozina, Ljubljana, I don't know how it goes, towards the New Mesto, or the border, means a 300km road, Pula-Zagreb, you must travel at least 500 kilometers. You're crossing the border twice, now we're in the EU, come on, I guess now we don't need to legislate, or hand over those personal documents, but before it was done, it took 10 and more hours. We also have an alternative when we go, say, or when our Istrians go from Pula to Zagreb. Train. Then they ride the train to Lupoglav, then they ride the buses and pass the Učka tunnel and then they come to the station in Rijeka and then they continue their journey to Zagreb or wherever. I agree absolutely that Croatia's priority at this point is, let's say, these large capital infrastructure projects, the Pelješki bridge and understandably that the Pelješki bridge cannot be built without the money of Europe as absolutely, no one is talking about it, without European money can neither build that tunnel through Učka or through Cicaria. Now goes this completion of the second tape of the Istrian Ipsilon by Pazin of Učka, with the Ucka tunnel. So I'm talking about a road project. That means that 45 kilometers plus somewhere, don't take the word, 5200, 5500 meters of road tunnel, and that would cost about 250 million euros somewhere. So, the Copra railroad with the tunnel through Učka, so with that compound, it would cost about as much money. I said that Croatia doesn't have that money, but if this railroad was built with that tunnel, then all the words that follow this matter would be de facto, and all the traffic from the south of Spain would be withdrawn from southern France, northern Italy to Hungary, and then towards Russia and the restless Ukraine. I don't expect that in the term of office of this government to be understood about this matter anything happens. But I hope that the paper can be arranged with Ljubljana, that one day or one day no one will prevent us from connecting to say the Rivers, the Učka Tunnel with Copra or Trieste, at least that's what happens on paper. With the railroad began this industrial "revolution" in Istria somewhere in the second half of the 19th century, the railroad in some way encouraged development I will say Istria in the 1950s, 1960s, and in the 1970s Buzenština, Lupoglav, Cerovlje literally there until the 1950s, and until the 1970s they lived off the railroad. Today when we talk about the railroad in Istria, it's all about it. In 1947, or the eighth or 1949, I don't know exactly when the Lupoglav-Stali railroad was built. How? Work action. Yesterday Karamarko asked to ban the five-point star as a symbol of one time. I guess they'll ban those tracks, too, but good. Too bad it wasn't forbidden to lose 600 thousand jobs in one period. But what am I saying? Without the railroad, some parts lose that industrial advantage they once had. First of all, I mean the ports of Pula or the port of Bršica. And that's one huge potential these railroads could raise. Is it possible, then, to finance one such railroad or one such project? Very difficult. Croatia I said can't do it alone, Croatia can't even be in debt, but maybe it could apply to European funds, I think it can. This year, Croatia gives Brussels about 4 billion kuna. In theory, we're talking about four billion kunas and I don't know what they call membership fees. We can pull about seven, 7.5 billion kunas. I'm afraid we won't withdraw more money than the one we're paying for, but that money that's coming back from Brussels is simply going to be scattered for European and not Croatian priorities. If those 4 billion kunas we only give back or return in 10, 15, maybe 20 national priorities, I think they would achieve a far, far greater potential or success than when those priorities set out for us by Brussels. About two months ago, we all followed the fate of HZ Carg here. The state had to be in debt to me for nearly 1 billion kuna, maybe even 800 million kuna states, 300 million railways to survive, but when we talk about this 40 million-euro loan this is certainly a good money for our opportunities I'll say one more big money, but once again, it's not a donated money. This money should be returned, that HH money cannot be returned alone, it is clear to all of us, it will be returned one day by the state. I said through the HH subsidies they withdrew from, say, there in '95 on here 30 billion kuna. The budget provided over a billion and a half euros a year and over 2 billion kuna in some periods. Mr. Shuker said that the shipbuilding has also withdrawn some 35 billion kunas, the recovery of banks, there is no Mr. Maric here, it must have cost 35, maybe 40 or 50 billion kuna, the recovery of companies cost 30 or 50 billion kunas I don't know, incentives to agriculture normally it must have been monitored it was expected by now 40 billion kuna. But here's only those 4.5 branches of taxpayers cost 150 maybe 200 billion kuna. cost normal and other countries, our problem is that some of these branches don't have the future we expect or how much money is invested for them. But no matter what the railroad needs to be saved, that railroad needs to be helped. When? Today because 10 years from now it would already be late and I don't think I see any reason why someone wouldn't raise a hand for a loan like this or rather a law on confirming a guarantee agreement between the EU and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the "Modification of HZ Infrastructure" project, although we are aware that 19.5 million kuna de facto goes for the severance of Croatian railways.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75598	Let's go to the replicas. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75599	Thank you very much. Comrade Cain, every time you talk about railways, you talk about that train tunnel under Učka or Ćicarija. Namely, your government and you are as an agent from the Kukuriku coalition talking about large strategic infrastructure facilities and projects. So I don't know why you don't act in that government of yours, that and one, here I am a supporter and your ideas to finally connect Istria and the railway with Zagreb and the rest of Croatia so that we can travel to Pula by train from Slavonski Brod, from Vinkovac or Croatia, not through Slovenia. In fact, Istria was connected to the railway via Slovenia but at the time of another state that was then unique. But now that Croatia is an independent state, there are also certain European directions which could then go from Pula to Cyprus and towards Milan and towards Spain. Therefore, such a strategic project would be excellent for the government of the Republic of Croatia to launch construction operations and railway operations and everything else. So let's influence it a little bit, you're having an impact on that Kukurik coalition of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75600	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75601	Here's a thank you for your support. I'm acting, I'm acting as far as I can, Mr. Grubisic, but it's not working. I worked 20 years through performances in this parliament and the HDZ administration, but it didn't work out then, and it looks like me and Bishop Dobrila may not be a few decades longer, but maybe another century together we'll dream of connecting Istria through the railway tunnel with the rest of Croatia. But someone's telling me that HDZ will handle it. I wouldn't want them to solve it because it would mean that we should be in a position of government, and I don't want that, at least not for a few more decades, and I believe that in that one period, some other coalition will start if nothing else is going to happen with the construction of a train tunnel through Učka, but not in the way that HDZ did there in '93. years right after or before the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75602	Dear Representative Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75603	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Cain, the poor bishop of Dobrila, is probably in heaven today, because you are not, in any way, the best example, you are not realising his desire to integrate Istria in the right way with Croatia. He wanted to, but you keep using the word "Istrian," not in the local sense. I'm proud to be a Dalmatian and it's evident that in your statement Istrian that it's emphasising corpus separatum, Istria equals corpus separatum. There are unfortunately high officials in Croatia, and they say the words of citizens, citizens, brothers and sisters, friends, not even Croats and Croats or dear Americans. But it's less evil than you say. You deliberately create a new nation with these Istrians, etc. But that's not why I answered, this star in the tunnel in the middle of the dark in Učka shined a five-pointer, as much as under that star killed the Partizani people, that's what you ask yourself, and you threw it in the folios. But what I'm saying is, you're like a European, right? Karamarko did not ask for anything, Karamarko only asks that Croatia is a member of the Council of Europe, or a member of the European Union, and that we respect the Council of Europe's resolution in which the five-point star is equal to the cowardly cross, the Nazi swastika. The swastika is equal to the star, star equals five-pointer regardless of what Mesic's former president or someone else has been propagating. That's what you advocate, you're a supporter and in some way ideologies or politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75604	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75605	Mr. Marasovicu, I'm Istrian, I don't think I should insult anyone in this way, but don't you ever teach us what we are and how we should simply declare ourselves. We all in Istria recognize ourselves that way, I don't think we share anyone on that basis with each other or "insinuate" anyone. And it's not any corpus separatum. It would be better or far better if your president were talking about the lost 280 000 jobs since 2008 here or perhaps the fact that it would take us about 6 more years to come from GDP where we were in 2008, but I would advise him on something else when we're talking about that five-point star. Let's say for example. Ask the U.S. Government to remove the Yugoslav flag from the Holocaust Museum in Washington. Here's the thing, but it won't. Why he did not seek or influence President Mesic while he was his chief of staff or election campaign to change his worldview. Why didn't he ask Franjo Tudjman to change Tito's bust from his office up in Pantochaka? Why today, as HDZ, do you take one step away from the original "tudjmanism" that I have never been prone to. And finally, Mr. Representative, what are we going to do today or tomorrow with the preamble of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which is your position, I am familiar with, but I would like to hear what your president thinks about it, today's closest mesic associate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75606	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. I don't think the replica or the reply to the replica has anything to do with the subject, with the railroad, so I think even the iron has nothing to do with it. Honored representative Vedran Babic on behalf of the Croatian SDP club in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75607	Here I'll stick to the subject You'll see. [[Intruder: I hope.]] Dear President of the Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Modernisation of HZ-Infrastructure. In materials related to this debate, we are introduced to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and to the mutual relationship of the Republic of Croatia with that bank, i.e. we are aware that the Republic of Croatia has been a full member of the EBRD since April '93. the years and to hold shares worth approximately 110 million euros, or 0.37% of voting power. Also, according to the amount of appropriations and technical assistance provided by the EBRD, it is one of the most significant sources of foreign financial support that contributes to the development of Croatia or, more precisely, the total value of the EBRD investment in our country is more than 2.7 billion euros for 148 projects with a value of around 7.7 billion euros. At its session held on 10 October 2013, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided on which HZ Infrastructure d.o.o. agree to conclude a loan agreement with the EBRD of 40m euros for the modernisation project of HZ Infrastructure. That decision also obliges the HHI Infrastructure to pay all the costs of implementing projects which cannot be financed by the EBRD loan through its regular business income. The government also decided at the same session held on 10 October 2013 to launch a guarantee agreement procedure between the Republic of Croatia and the EBRD for that project. By its conclusion of 12 December 2013, the Government adopted the Report on the lead negotiations for the conclusion of a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for that project. And the loan agreement between HZ Infrastructure d.o.o. and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the above mentioned also a project for the modernisation of HH Infrastructure. This loan confirms the loan guarantee contract agreed by the loan agreement. The material project of modernisation of HZ Infrastructure consists of the acquisition of railway maintenance equipment, procurement, installation of an information system for the management of energy efficiency and the financing of part of the work force restructuring programme. The total amount of the loan is 40m euros. Under the conditions offered by the EBRD for HZ Infrastructure d.o.o. The loan was granted for 15 years, including three years of main payment. As soon as the guarantee contract enters into force, the loan appropriations will be made available immediately by 30 June 2016. In addition, HH Infrastructure has committed itself as a borrower and regularly and fully fulfil all financial obligations under the EBRD. Since it is a confirmation of an international contract which also formally expresses the willingness to be bound by an already signed international contract as well as the fact that changes or additions to the text of the international treaty are not generally possible at this stage of the procedure, it is proposed that this bill be discussed and accepted by the urgent procedure by uniting first and second readings. Of course, the SDP Club will support the proposal for a law on the confirmation of a guarantee contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Modernisation of HZ Infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75608	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic on behalf of the HDSSB club in the Croatian Parliament. He loses the right club, the club loses the right to talk about this. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Josip Boric. Not even in the assembly of the respected representative Boric. One more individual debate, Your Honor, here you go. Boro Grubisic, individual debate. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75609	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I didn't know Mr. Babic was gonna talk this short, so even though I was running, I didn't make it. But then I report the closing word. It's like a fast train from Vinkovac, but good. What do you say? Sometimes the road to hell is paved with good intentions. So is this law, which provides 40m euros in loans to HZ infrastructure. I'll be very specific, given that I've been shortened by individual debate and with concrete facts. So, during these 23 years, the Croatian state is said to have invested about 30 billion kuna in the shipbuilding of 35 billion kunas in the capitalisation of banks 80 billion kuna, which is 20 times more than we sold. Interesting? But that's not what I was gonna say. Namely, I have here a letter from a foreign company, I will not say whose offer was 300m euros for financing HZ Infrastructure, connecting with countries in the Croatian railways region, for modernising Croatian railways. So 300m euros under very favourable conditions. I wonder now, and you know that, Mr. Antesic, which firm she was offering. I wonder now how HZ infrastructure refuses such an offer and why it refused, but here's the loan they say under favourable terms with a grace period of three years, two period annual payments, etc., excellent everything. But we also had an offer of 300 million euros, which is seven and a half times more than 40 million euros. I also have here an explanation from HZ Infrastructure answer to this offer that is completely unsuspecting, so there is no real explanation and explanation why the foreign investor's offer was rejected. And we cry out for investment and attracting money from abroad. A company that is completely valid, which builds railways in other countries than Asia, Europe, and America, South America. But that's how it works with us. There was once not only Matos Express, who drove on the Zagreb-Belgrade route. It was a railway, i.e. the connection of Ljubljana – Zagreb – Belgrade with standing in Slavonski Brod and Srijemska Mitrovica. Only those two stations and Zagreb were the third station where the train was standing, and he drove straight 4 hours from Ljubljana to Belgrade. Exactly as much as he drives today from Slavonski Brod to Zagreb. So, half of that relationship if we take Zagreb-Belgrade as 400 km, then the boat is half a mile away, so 200 km away. Because of the slowness of trains that ride today, people simply transferred their journey to bus transport. The condition of the railway in Croatia is best described by the removal of the Najice-Pletternica railway, the war vessels of eastern Croatia at the time of the war. Despite the fact that the railroad was a war vessel of housewives carrying both war material, military, etc. That railroad was lifted at the time of Calmeta. About the restoration I don't know if he has any idea yet, and about the Banovina or Banovina-Cordun railway Petrinja-Karlovac where there are no more thresholds because they blew it all up and sold it into old iron, someone, how who, which association, etc. That we don't talk. Anyway, the number of kilometers of railways in the Republic of Croatia is in constant decline instead of listening to that old Bismarck that the state is as strong as its railroad. And when you look at Germany and you look at its railways and the spread of the railway network in Germany, when every village, every village is connected and there is no bus for that village because it has a train. What's the train and bus for? Well, there's no need. But every hamlet is connected to a larger township, and then you go to even bigger stations like Manheim, Munchen, etc. where you have fast, fastest ICE trains or in France so-called TTV trains driving from Paris to Marseille in 3.5, 4 hours. It only stops in Lyon, and it seems to me in Toulouse. So this loan with such a administrative structure in which each of the political elites that run the state from the draft Croatian state furniture their people regardless of their expertise but only political similarities. Well, then this is exactly what happens in this situation where the Kukuriku coalition is in power that some assistant from the Student Centre becomes some sort of something to say gets some function on the Croatian railway. Well, then some guy from Cinestar gets a managerial seat in the Croatian railway. So that she may set up a brother for the sale of tickets on the railways, not only that she may be set up, but also that of the brother. And I still have a series of examples. In addition to how the government ordered each public company to work on investing HZ in view of their situation, they found themselves in an invisible position. They didn't know what to invest in, so then retrograded to the government, they went with the control checks on K5-supply trains. or as they say in the second competition, the revitalisation of tilt trains. And that's the same thing, and for both of them, they pulled 20 million kunas retrogradely outside the date of the competition. So they took 40 million kunas and it appeared as a major investment on the Croatian railways. What's going on out there? What's cooking there? The personnel who come exclusively in party or party likeness, however you will, during these 23 years of Croatian statehood, Croatian railways are on their knees. About HZ Cargo that has been so ruined in these two years that it is now in a length of 700 million kuna or 100 million euros that we are not talking about how the fax company appears, so it has somewhere to write its seat and phone. But the company's gone, but there are jobs and they're given HZ carg jobs. By the way, it is said that HZ Cargo is inoperable, and Slovenian railways have a 9% increase in freight transport for the past year. How does the Slovenian railway have an increase in freight traffic of 9% and Croatia does not? The Kopar port grows year after year with a load loader, but Rijeka port stands, stagnates or weakens. What about Petrochemy Kutina for which HH cargo is very important? Nothing. How many workers depend on HZ carg? It's not just HZ Carg workers, it's workers in Luci Rijeka and Petrochemia and in Gredel and here in Končar and a series of other companies. 20,000 people and their jobs and Đuro Đakovic ultimately depend on work, on the business of HZ Cargo. I'd also have a lot to say about infrastructure. We also have data on how it works, we have contracts here that are for Mr. Dink Cwitan. May he choose to go to HZ and to the infrastructure and HZ cargo and the ministry to see how the HZ cargo was destroyed and how HZ was destroyed. Is that someone's goal? We used to warn and stick our finger into the road lobby, today when we built Croatian highways to say what is now? Now who are we going to put our finger on? In the inability of ruling and setting up those who come from a variety of other companies and then ask which kind, are there several types of cars? It's as if the director of the light bulb factory asks if there's more light bulbs in that factory or just one kind. It's the same thing. Unbelievable! So how can a guy like that manage HH?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75610	Thank you very much. And by the way, dear colleague Grubisic, you lost your opportunity for 5 minutes because the club lost the right to be exposed when you were not in the hall. But don't worry, you have 5 replicas, so you'll be able to close everything. Intruder Grubišić: A 5 min. Final? [[Intruder Grubisic: As I could, the only thing I forgive here was to perform an emergency. I forgave you, but the Rules of Procedure did not forgive you. I've really forgiven everything. ...]] Honorable representative Mladen Novak replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75611	Thank you very much. Well, you mentioned the transfer to bus transport by your colleague Grubisic, unfortunately it has not been systematically done, and even most of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have been sentenced to own transport because alternative bus transport in some of the relations simply does not exist. Credit, you mentioned this loan and the investment in this loan, I'm interested in, say, this measuring car that we're going to buy and these three snow devices, whether an analysis was made, that meter wagon is going to drive over to our place, okay. All right, that's what I need. But let me explain now who's gonna maintain that railroad when they need an ambulance, when... we're down to one, two, five people maximum and the spring buildings we sell, it's physically inconclusive. The responsibility of the administration, you mentioned the responsibility of the administration. I remember when the Honorable Vice-President of the Parliament Mr. Stazic said here, the ministers will be responsible for the people they set up. Now the ministers have put in charge of the administration that created the loss that you mentioned if I'm not mistaken for 700 million kuna, there is no responsibility. What happened? Nothing. I ask the question, you also mentioned Gredelj, I hope that we will get an answer with Gredel, which is with these workers, which is with their rights at the end, but also with the contracted allegedly contracted production of new trains and just to remind you, about 2 years ago we had a debate here when the first debate was concerning the railways was then told us that French pride in the French railways and this power will make Croatian railways proud. Because we're really proud.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75612	Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75613	Thank you very much. Comrade Novak, you see here I have a copy of contract number 10/13. passenger transport d.o.o. And I have a contract no. 33/13. also passenger transport where the subject-matter of the tender is the same and for each withdraws 20 million kuna. When we talk about pride, sometimes Croatian postcards, Croatian cities were always with a station, look at the Bosnian Ship, the most beautiful postcard at all what exists now I'm talking about the Bosnian Ship since the railway was Slavonski Brod-Bosanki Brod across the bridge then the only and most visible, what was most visible for that place was the railway station. Slavonski Brod Station was the most beautiful in Croatia until World War II when it was destroyed in the bombing. The profession of the railway company was like a doctor in the village, a veteran in the village or a teacher in the village, so was the railwayman in the Croatian society? What's today? Nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75614	Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75615	Dear counterpart Grubisic, I think you have seen exactly that the problem of managing public companies is, and then with the Croatian railway, exactly what they are putting on the head of these companies is similar personnel. Friends, party friends Milanovic, Prime Minister Milanovic says he has no friends in politics. I trust him, but he's got party buddies. Mr. Linic prefers a friend more than party friends, so he puts his card partners on the line. The same logic was employed by Mr. Cacic, who remember put Mr. Koračević at the head of HEP Mr. Koračević, I will guard the HEPs so that he does not get electrocuted, he knew so much about HEP. It will be good when it is placed at the head of a public company when HDZ sets up an expert and when SDP leaves that expert or vice versa, when the SDP sets up an expert and when it comes to the authority of HDZ or another party, when it leaves it, it will be a sign that in Croatia it has finally started to be placed in public companies experts who know how to manage and who are professional in the jobs it is being placed on. Unfortunately, and now it is a practice for all that has and all similar professional equipment in the parties to be employed during the party's term of office. As long as we listened before the Kukuriku coalition came, remember that arrogant performance by Mr. Cacic, the first vice president when the press asked him he was sharing a function, then you said we weren't HDZ, it's 10 times worse now.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75616	Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75617	It's interesting that Mr. Vuksic is a human cruise. Namely, they first divided public companies, so this Kukuriku coalition that will belong to whom, and then Janaf belonged to HNS, Djuro Djakovic to HNS, so with a heavy ownership of the Republic of Croatia. Something else belonged to the SDP and so on. They shared it first, so by party membership. Then they're, now they're staffed so that if someone's friends with someone and they're appointed as director, director, or where they ask him to sign up and give him a membership card. They don't even have as many personnel as they've filled out, no more membership cards. Then furniture to get a new member, so here's the thing. The gentleman you mention as Cacic has moved the Assistant Minister of Railways to a better place in the HAC, what now, the man has been for railways an expert of some kind or an expert, why he has been appointed at all as assistant minister of the railway but is now good at HAC but very interesting are the roshades and human resources, kissing etc. It's terrible, and that's why we do, that's why we do. That's why I believe that this loan, too, so we can take credit to the sky, it can be on favourable terms, but it's a waste of effort for players when people who don't or who have little to do with matter deal with these things.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75618	Dear Representative Josip Boric is a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75619	Thank you very much, President. So, fellow Grubisic, you asked yourself in your debate what this government is doing with HZ as a company, a public firm? He's restructured. We're in opposition saying it's restructured to the mountains, and they're saying they're restructuring for the better. It started in 2012, 5 companies that are as failures, added to successes, now all three failed, we see for ourselves, fired workers, increasingly difficult to function. When it came to this, statistics went to hell, so the number of passengers was almost 50% compared to 2011, the number of miles traveled 35% lower, the number of goods transported almost 10% lower than 2011. They then decreased in this restructuring from the state budget a certain portion of the revenue. It's at the level of the year between 200 million and 400 million kuna. This was guaranteed by the same company to be in debt. Why? Because it's the easiest thing to do, you give today a guarantee, and you charge yourself in 5, 6 or 10 years during some other government. And the saddest thing, and this is what we talked about today, is privatized by a company called Daughter who has a profit of nearly 100 million kuna, valuable buildings and valuable contracts and thus you bring HZ infrastructure into a space where it won't be able to appear on any rail and solve possible infrastructure problems at all. And then you look at this restructuring in front of us some 26 billion euros for the 10 important corridors Europe has set for 15 thousand kilometers of these railways and instead of dealing with EU funds, you take this guarantee. That's what we're saying in the opposition, so restructuring is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75620	Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75621	So while we're dealing with human trafficking and the involvement of party friends, party friends, etc., we don't have to be relatives until Europe, here we are currently working and building and financing and co-finance the construction of railway corridors that bypass Croatia. Currently the largest railway bridge in Europe was built before the Danube River, it is finished. So, the bridge is on a track connecting Hamburg with Istanbul, but it bypasses all the countries, so someone doesn't think it might go across Serbia, no, it doesn't go across Serbia, it goes across Romania and Bulgaria is a bridge, it bypasses all the countries of the former Yugoslavia. All of our traffic routes that we so magnificently mention, Botovo-Rijeka, the tenth... European railway corridor, which goes from Zagreb to Vinkovci, Tovarnik and to Belgrade, are actually not to say auxiliary corridors. So, we are not on the main routes, and in order to achieve anything at all and connect to the main routes, we have a continuous and continuous struggle on the financing of Croatian railways which, the staff you sir have set up, not you personally, but your party and your coalition, and these are today equally staffed and tending their people through management salaries in the Croatian Railways.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75622	Dear Representative Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75623	Dear colleague Grubisic, you mentioned the historic role of the railway and its reputation in the history and development of the entire state, the human race and all that. Here we are talking about the proposal for a law on the confirmation of a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which consists of such three phases, the purchase of new equipment, the purchase and installation of the IT system, the financing of part of the restructuring programme.... We remember the statement by Minister Doncic, who said that without any remorse from those 1,500 people will be removed from the railroad, and if this point 3 of modernization is about them, it should certainly be taken into account that it is people between 45 and over several years and what will be with them, with the few thousand kunas that will be paid for the severance? Mr. Boric took part of the replica in his replica, which is why he took part of the replica, because we're talking about the sale of Prussian buildings. We are talking about the enormous property that has HZ in real estate that it has achieved in those historical years that you mentioned, about numerous properties and about the capitalization of the company Pručna konstružina with buildings in Zapresic, a land of 180 thousand squares with a company that has a contract of 4 billion kuna, with a contract that they have committed and Pručna žine that they will perform these works, and most of them by subcontractors. This company also has a profit of 100 million kuna. As for the modernization of the railways itself, it is certainly necessary, in the contract should stand somewhere to see what will be obtained for these great money that we will take from the equipment. There's also a measurement train, what's its price? Is that 20 million kuna or maybe 8 million kuna as far as you can see, the euro, as shown in the company's offers... Do we even need that measurement train at this point... existing and what is the priority in modernising the railroad?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75624	Time, buddy. The replica corresponds to the respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75625	Interesting phenomena, Mr. Klaric, are that this tilt train was also purchased at the time of the former government, the SDP and the coalition partners. These bending trains that have eventually become, as I like to say, and already a little bit has entered the constituency dictionary dictionary dictionaries, rolling trains. So now we have measurement trains that are scheduled to buy and yet we don't really know how much they cost, what they're going to do, etc. But when you talk about firing employees from the Croatian Railways, then many experts are responsible for saying that there is really no reason to cancel this company, but on the contrary or even more, people miss it if it is the successful work of these companies that are, three railway companies. For this reason, I have been at the Assembly session before because of these results from the Zagreb Airport, which is run by the same Ministry of Luke Rijeka of HZ, all of what Mr. Marasovic of your club listed would be best for the minister to leave this function peacefully and without greater damage to all of these systems in traffic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75626	And the last replica, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75627	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Grubišić, you have mentioned HZ Cargo many times in your discussion in various circumstances and I certainly hold that HZ Cargo in the HZ Strategy should be the key subject of that locomotive that will draw that burden from the strategic port translate for example. to Europe it remains undeniable and the comment is too high. And it is certain that in HZ Cargo it is very important that human potentials as they say, people who do and we all know in our environment and employees who work and have results and we know about it. I'm going to work on those stations that I know well that have very good results, that's what Botovo is talking about in the strategy and Gekinjish where our people work too. I'm talking about those people's potentials means that train driver, those train browsers, the warehouses, 5, 6 people, there's talking about 80,000 cars a year, on Botov 13, 14 thousand loads that they've accomplished to you. And now we're talking about cutting these and reducing the number of employees. Of course, first of all, it's every man who's gonna lose his income, but I'm holding it so how if we have a commitment to carry the load as much as possible, that we do the best we can. There's that agreement with this MAV, etc. Why does that seem? That's what I'm thinking loudly about, and we're talking about the transport strategy and the strategic branches of the railroad as such, I don't think that's clear to me at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75628	The replica matches Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75629	Thank you very much. A colleague of Milinković, MAV, is a Mayyar vasutak, Hungarian railways jell-o. I'm not talking to the Mayar vasutas contracts, I'm talking about the station you were talking about. I remember for a long time, I'm a man, when your government transferred the train hub from Slavonski Brod to Vinkovce by force of politics. Although Vinkovci are away from the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia by 40km, you are the international station of Slavonski Brod and the railways in Slavonski Brod, which were employed by over 800 people, who were transferred to Vinkovce by force or by most of the Vinkovnik line and the Vinkovnik Lobi in HDZ, there is no one in charge here who did so. This is what made the railway in Slavonski Brod and the Slavonski Brod Railway Station, where big money entered, is it a large station and beautiful built at the time of the former state, reduced to a simple station and not to say Botov, but Sibinj, Zadubravlja or I don't know what. Although even today, when we watch the traffic of travellers Vinkovci and Slavonski Brod, we see the number of tickets bought in Slavonski Brod far greater than in Vinkovci, mainly because the whole Bosnian plant comes to the station in Slavonski Brod and travels further by train to Europe, Slovenia and I do not know which other destinations. Unfortunately, no government has bothered to change that, nor has this Kukuriku coalition. There is no power or political will, so even the intermodal transport station was placed in Spačva on the direction of your minister, and there mosquitoes are bigger than hens and can't survive the cells of mosquito force, nor can they work there at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75630	The final minutes belong to Deputy Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Minister Zdenko Antesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75631	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. Here, let me finish a few words about this law. In fact, I will try to stick to the measure of things, so it is the law on confirming a guarantee contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the 20m-euro Croatian Infrastructure Modernisation Project. In order not to remain unclear, it is about the purchase or the change of a special railway vehicle for the control and measurement of the railway infrastructure subsystem, for the purchase of a new measuring vehicle for the control and measurement of the speed of up to 160 km/h, so that a new vehicle for the new measuring vehicle is to be loaded. And at present, such a measured vehicle is borrowed or there is a contract between HZ Infrastructure and the Hungarian Railways and the purchase price is approximately 80 euros per km but only for the control and measurement of the geometrical state of the track, while the price of the metric train for the control and measurement of the electronic and construction rail infrastructure system would be approximately 90 euros per km, so for the needs of HZ Infrastructure, this would amount to about a million and 800 thousand euros per year. However, the control and measurement services of the parameters by the other party cannot be ordered or negotiated at the time when the HH-Infrastructure is required but only when the other party does so. Hungary's railways end the cycle of measurement in their area, which raises the question of contracting emergency services. The purchase of one vehicle with the necessary measuring equipment and administrative data processing programmes will satisfy international guidelines relating to accuracy and accuracy of measurement, the rules laid down in the Law on Railways and Rules and maintenance instructions and will ensure safe control and measurement over the next 20 to 30 years, which will result in a quality analysis and assessment of the state of the railway elements and the contact network, planning of the necessary works and quantity of materials, and other necessary measures to reduce financial costs and increase maintenance quality, which will ultimately ensure a safer, faster and more quality traffic flow. The estimated value of the purchase of such a vehicle is 114 million kuna VAT, so that is the estimated value. The other part of the equipment that is supplied is snow-cleaners, so former so-called. Rolls and heavy motor cuts, so I can say that HZ-Infrastructure currently has five snow-cleaners of which 4 have worn out due to age and do not guarantee reliability in exploitation. So it's two types of rollbe 2000 produced in '72. and two types of rollba 6000 produced 1987. The company that produced these snow-cleaners from Switzerland no longer exists, and its successor has left the motor-railer programme and therefore is significantly difficult to maintain because of the inability to obtain spare parts. Also, HZ-Infrastructure currently has 75 heavy motor jerseys and 5 snow-cleaners. 33 heavy motor cuts are for users in the construction infrastructure subsystem, and 42 in the electrical infrastructure subsystem. The average age of motor rolling stock is 30 years and for the most part there is no service network or possibility of obtaining spare parts, and therefore the investment plan provides for the purchase of a tow truck for special purposes. It is intended for the maintenance of the construction infrastructure subsystem in the part of the intervention maintenance i.e. for the towing of wagons, tow trailers, transport of personnel and materials. The estimated value of the purchase of 2 snow-cleaners is 37 million 933 thousand and 500 kuna, and the estimated value of the heavy engine wood is 7 million 587 thousand and 500 kuna which, when converted into euro, precisely comes to the purchase of that special measured vehicle of 114 million kuna, the snow-cleaners cca 38 and 7.5 heavy motor-dress total gives that amount of 20 million euros previously said. So that's the first component. The second component is for redundancies for workers, of 19.5m euros and 500,000 euros for the procurement and implementation of the energy efficiency management information system. Keep going. It's important to point out, there's been a lot of talk here about a possible burden on the state budget due to this figure. In that sense, I can say the following. The estimated annual income of HZ-Infrastructure is therefore 342 million and 200 thousand kuna at the annual level according to their projections. In view of the terms of the loan, which amounts to 15 years with a repayment deadline, with the possibility of starting to pay off the principal of 3 years and the interest rate as is said to be the return to 24 half-years of war over 12 years. There is no risk that this loan would fall on the burden of the state budget is minimal. Keep going. As far as this is concerned, I'd just like to have a lot of talk about so-called. Mantras on company personnel, agencies that are in charge, I'm only talking about this ministry. So I'd say a few data that many of the discussions that have been here will simply be denied. I personally am a party man, it's no secret, but I will mention some companies in the system responsible for this ministry. So it's about 52 state-owned companies, agencies and institutions, so I'm going to list some of these very interesting biggest ones. ACI, Senders and Links, Croatian Air Traffic Control, Croatian Post Office, Jadrolinija, Croatia airports, all except one airport, so Pula, Zadar, Split, Dubrovnik, Zagreb, most agencies. So no member of the administration in what I have listed is a member of neither the SDP nor the ruling coalition, and these are extremely important and important state-owned companies. So this mantra of political or party personnel definitely falls into the water. Secondly, at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, the minister changed, the state secretaries who were all members of the ruling party went, and from now on we have five ministerial assistants. It's just one member of the ruling coalition, the rest of them are non-partisan people, so people of the profession. So in our here, I just wanted to illustrate the fact that in our largest ministry, two very large ministries could certainly be made of. The mantra of party and political personnel is definitely falling into the water.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75632	We have three reported replicas, four. First, please! Don't throw it away. Let me run the session. First Miss twilight, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75633	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Mr. Antesic. I'll have a very different question. I'll use it here when you're present. We know that our railroads are old, that some trains are very old and so on. But they've never, ever been so unclean. That dirt and that's what I want to know who's cleaning it up? I don't know who's in charge of this. Comrade Antesic, that is a great shame. Strangers who come to us and ride on those trains are surprised. Croatia's beautiful country, tourist country, cities are clean and trains are terrible. It would take a good one and disinfection and disinfection and disinsectation and deratiation and a good one hand to clean up those car seats. Because he may be poor, but he must not be defiled. He may be an old man, but he can't be stained and unclean. And then the main stations, especially ours in Zagreb. That's it or the river. Well, it's like you came into some kind of scary movie, especially if it is, waiting for some kind of three, four-hour train, and then you're sitting there. And you can't hear what's going on. It's, you know, it's negligent. It's called carelessness, and it's my question to you, and I'm asking you to answer who's taking care of it, so it means cleaning cars, who's cleaning it up, and why they're so dirty and abandoned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75634	Another replica, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75635	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what we heard today finally and what it's all about in the equipment supply specification, what it's all about buying for this loan that Mr. Deputy Minister is today and clearly explained what it is in the specification. It would be good if it were written in the contract, to see exactly what the price was achieved and how much that measurement train cost. According to him, HZ experts write that he could make the most of the interest of eight million kunas, i.e. 8 million euros. Otherwise, its purchase price is 6m euros. Now these other other components that you've counted 38 thousand, 38 million kuna, and 7 million kuna, in total, about 159 million kuna, if I've managed to add up well somewhere you're exceeding 20 million kuna, euro. That's 21 and a half million euros. Well, I don't know how to close a contract like that inaccurately, and I think it's absolutely something that's not exactly defined and specified in that contract that's being signed. The contract should be clear, procurement of equipment public and priced also public. Everything else today is the first time we've heard it's snow cleaners, etc. I think there are a lot of other needs about the reconstruction of the railway across Croatia, and especially the low-speed railway that is constantly mentioned, and there are none of them as well as trains that travel at a speed of up to 50 to 60 kilometers per hour on these railways from Osijek to Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75636	Third replica, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75637	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy, it's incorrect to explain that the bail won't be protested. Why? For reasons when you look at the report on the implementation of the budget for 2011, 2012 and this which will come for 2013 you will see that most of the protested guarantees refer to the Croatian railways and to the once-given loans to the tourism economy. So these are the facts. It is also incorrect, and then obviously you did not read the contract well, that if the Croatian Railways, in fact Infrastructure cannot repay the loan that they have the property. The contract clearly states, if Croatian railways cannot repay the loan then whoever issued the guarantee of salaries. And who's gonna sell the property that's another pair of shoes. The EBRD certainly won't pay for the property. Just like you say, many of the companies you've counted are not SDPs or someone else's personnel. They may not be formal, but the fact is that all these people came to those positions after the Kukuriku coalition took over. Therefore, all they have done is take responsibility for them because you have appointed them. You can also not say that all the people who were in those positions and were also members of the HDZ in your ministry. So there were also a number of people in charge who were not members of any party at the time of HDZ at the Ministry of Transport. Therefore, if you replace someone and appoint them when you come to power, then he is yours, part of your political work, and you bear responsibility for his business as if he were a member of your political party.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75638	The fourth replica and Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75639	Thank you very much. Well, dear Deputy, here I am going to continue this part where Mr. Shucker has been tied up with the appointment of leading people to public companies, agencies, etc. I have the impression and it implies that all those who were until the arrival of this government were party-dedicated people from the ACI, Jadrolinia, that I do not list any other agencies. You told over 50 companies. They weren't party people, but you replaced them according to your thinking and thinking. But I'm interested in each other's questions, these days it's up to date, why did you replace Dinko Vodanović? The only man who's ever been expert in researching aircraft accidents? After him, there's no one behind him. And with such a benevolent funny explanation put some people close to the minister when we know it's a very important agency where the waist is primary, everything else is negligible. Then why did you let it go and do it?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75640	It has absolutely nothing to do with the loan, and you can ask this as a representative question. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75641	Final draft law confirming the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Modernisation of HH Infrastructure project, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 628. The debate on the text of the law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please raise your hand to plead who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? What's the score? I find that most of the votes of 82 votes for and 19 abstentions have been adopted by the Law confirming the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Modernisation of HZ Infrastructure in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75642	We're moving on to the next point. This is a) Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the Ombudsman for children; b) Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of a Ombudsman for children Ivan Shuker. Let's see what happens next.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75643	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I believe that no business conditions have been obtained to put this item under discussion in this House of Commons for the reason that yesterday's parent committee removed the item from the agenda, did not discuss it and did not send the report to the Assembly in accordance with Article 179 and we can refer to some other articles of our Rules of Procedure that say so. But the most important thing is that if we allow this debate today, then it is the total disabling of this House for the reason that we will discuss a agenda point for which neither the parent committee nor the Committee on Legislatives have sent their opinion. So I ask you nicely if you decide to proceed with this debate I am looking for a break on behalf of the club for 15 minutes that we can decide on our participation and how to discuss this item on the agenda. So, I'm looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75644	Okay, here's the deal. I can see the hand, just to give one explanation. There are no business obstacles for us to hold a debate, there were no business obstacles or the board held a hearing yesterday without a representative of the government. The fact that the president of the board didn't want to hold that debate is a matter of the board. But you'll have a chance to say that, and I'll give you an explanation of the business after the break. Stanku's looking for the SDP club. ... No discussion now, you'll get a break. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, no, there's no discussion between you and me right now. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You'll get 10 minutes off and 5 minutes to explain why you asked for a break. Tell Vice President Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75645	For the same reasons, the SDP club is looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75646	Okay, I'm setting a 10-minute break. A business remark, here you go, Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75647	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, so you have injured the Rules of Procedure for two reasons. One is to comment on what I said, and the third is I think it's Article 238, which is that you are false because your members of the club were present on the board and voted in the same way as the chairman of the board. So you should say that as a fact. And then I agree with you. But if you ignore the fact that the members of your party were on the board and you bring out only one piece then it's false, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75648	Comrade Shuker, we'll hear all the truth. But please, nice chairman who runs the session is obliged to give an explanation. And there's no discussion with the chairman, that's exactly what the Rules of Procedure says. Now break of 10 minutes, proceed at 12.05. Thank you. It's 11:00.55.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75649	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.05 HOURS]] Our break time is up. Stanku was requested by the HDZ Club. Who's going to speak for the club? Here you go, Sunny Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75650	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, here are a few reasons why the HDZ Club asked for a break in connection with what happened yesterday at the board meeting. So, a little recapitulation of what it was. The government of the Republic of Croatia sent a proposal to the Croatian Parliament to resolve the current Ombudsman for children and sent a proposal to appoint a new one. Similarly, according to the procedure, the Government has listed persons who will explain the resolution or appointment in its name. At yesterday's committee meeting, none of the proposed by the government of the Republic of Croatia, the ministry sent a secretary and, of course, immediately to say what and probably the Social Democratic Party Club is going to say behind us, that it wasn't really supposed to be anyone. However, we believe that this is a matter that we really need to discuss in a sovereign and reasoned manner. We often like to say that, but perhaps we use it more rarely based on pluralism of opinion. The Croatian Parliament should right now be the place of questioning any decision or proposal of the Government and after the debate first on the parent bodies or working bodies, and these are our committees and then at the plenary session in the debate to decide the best for Croatian citizens and in this case the best decision for children. It is unexpected that this point is being discussed today despite the fact that the parent board has not discussed it, we agreed yesterday that members of the board should convene a new session, the committee contacted the ministry, which also agreed to do so on Tuesday 25th and to invite the person proposed by the Government for appointment as the new lawyer. So I see no reason why we should now and immediately discuss this issue. If this is how we put aside all democratic standards, democracy has become exclusively and only what corresponds to the ruling ones. There are also some colleagues and colleagues from other clubs who say that it was said this morning that these points would not be on the agenda. I will remind you, the Ombudsman for children, is the authority of the Croatian Parliament which acts independently and independently by sticking to the principles of justice and morality. Do we follow these principles? We can ask ourselves what we're actually doing right now? In addition, the attorney-in-law is noting the mandate of March 31st, so it is unclear and doubtful why a decision on resolution is being made if, by force of the law, the mandate expires and the resolution is excessive. One of the proposed candidates deals with the custody of adults. You also need to know that while it is known that the attorney-general so far is engaged in the protection of children's rights throughout his working life and what is visible from the resume available on the lawyer's pages. The HDZ Club does not see any valid reasons for the urgency of this debate, we are not told any valid arguments that would require a new prosecutor to be resolved in such an emergency right now, or tomorrow. The assembly of all its former years unanimously supported the defense attorney's reports. All these years, the Assembly has been following the work of the office with great care, and precisely because of the importance of the area of action and our full responsibility with full right, we ask that this issue be discussed responsibly and with all relevant information. So we ask that this point be not next for discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75651	On behalf of the SDP club, a respected colleague of Gordana Sobol will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75652	Dear Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We at the SDP club believe that there are absolutely no business obstacles or obstacles to how you want this debate to be held, regardless of what the parent board held yesterday. In accordance with the government's responsibilities and obligations, but then we, the rulings in this House, feel that we must maintain and make decisions and, of course, your right as an opposition to try to argue like this today or any other delay or extend. On 7 February, the government made a public call for a new Ombudsman for children and, according to that public call, decided and sent us a proposal here to the Croatian Parliament. The prosecutor for children who is now acting in that capacity stands out on March 31st and is proposed to take office on April 1st. On behalf of HDZ, a colleague tried to speak, you can teach morals, justice and so on. But I have to remind all of you and I that we're not going to discuss this matter with HDZ yesterday or today or tomorrow at all, and you know why? So I remind you that on the eve of losing the election at the last session held in 2011 the HDZ adopted a new Law on the Ombudsman, which, regardless of all the reports between the children and the Ombudsman, proposed that all special defences be abolished. And then you voted that law with 76 votes in favour, the Constitutional Court suspended it, and when we took power in June 2012, we brought the amendments and additions and brought all the defenses back. So much for moral justice and democracy. And there's one more thing I'd like to remind you of, at that same last session of the Parliament you held on your nose, you named among other things a new lawyer for gender equality, if you remember, also with 77 votes, the truth, for and that we do, and that we are who you were, maybe we'd go and solve it then, but we're not. And she's doing her job today, we accept her reports, and as long as she works, she'll have our support. Therefore, I repeat once again on behalf of the SDP club, we believe that there are no business reasons, obstacles or such that we should not hold this debate today on the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75653	Okay. ...of this one. The committee could have held a debate yesterday or when it had already held a session, counterpart Marija Lugaric also warned at the meeting. There are no business obstacles to the debate at the plenary session now, and this debate can be held very responsibly. Therefore, we will continue the debate. The proposer of this decision is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, pursuant to Article 4, paragraph 1 of the Law on the Ombudsman for Children. You've received the motion for an act. I ask, does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Youth, Ms. Maya Sporish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75654	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. The prosecutor for children's eight-year term expires on March 31st this year. On 30 January this year, the government of the Republic of Croatia concludes that it accepts a public invitation to propose a candidate for a child lawyer. The public invitation was published in the National Journal on 7 February, the daily press and the website of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth. Three applications have arrived within 15 days. Two complete, Ms Mile Jelavic and Mrs Ivana Milas Klaric and one incomplete. The Government of the Republic of Croatia established, on the basis of the procedure carried out, a proposal for a decision on the appointment of the Ombudsman for children who provided the Croatian Assembly with complete documentation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75655	I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club will speak to a respected colleague, Nada Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75656	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, Deputy Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. No matter how much moralizing this may again be considered, we would certainly prefer this debate more useful if we had the committee’s views, because their opinions are also very valuable in asking questions, that is, during the decision-making process, but many of the doubts are likely to be addressed through these discussions. Always, this thinking of me is about thinking of us as members of the HDZ Club. The Ombudsman acts as an independent and independent body, sticking to principles and morals and justice and for his work is based on the Law on the Ombudsman for children, which was adopted in 2003 at the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Convention on Human Rights and General Freedoms, which are based on their work as well as other documents, laws, regulations and our basic act of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Attorney General Mili Jelavić is currently in the eight-year term and this is an opportunity to refer to the past period of work of the Attorney General and to some very significant changes and developments in society that have affected the position of children, families, and they have also affected the work of this prosecutor's office because in this context there have been violations of the rights and violations of the rights which the Ombudsman then acted and worked through his office. Many of these social changes were certainly positive because they followed the interest of children, but some social opportunities such as unemployment, general poverty in the family, the poverty of parents that reflected both the status and the rights of children, an increased number of divorces, and then all of this affected the increased number of domestic violence, peer violence, violence through the Internet and the media, all of which led to an increase and violation of children's rights. In the course of her reporting in accordance with the law, the Advocate General has also drawn up a methodology of this report, and we can also monitor these rights through the structure of the child's rights at individual level and their infringements. The Ombudsman united all of this and therefore made warnings, proposals and recommendations, and also acted on the making of regulations and laws, thematic meetings, public debates, etc. Since 2003, since there has been an office, and since 2006, since we have been observing the period of work of Advocate Mile Jelavic, we can see that there has been an increase in the number of individual rights violations, that there has been an increase in number, in conclusion with her recommendations and conclusions, and that the Ombudsman has had an impact on the public..., on the making of regulations and on a lot of things. It may not be that the large number of applications, up to 1600 in the last year, has only increased the number of child rights violations, but has come to the realization and awareness of the presence of the lawyer's office, has also come to the attention of children and parents and of all the social structures and segments that there is one institution that we can and must address for such things. The Ombudsman acted in all segments and areas not only through warnings of violations of rights in the family, at school, but also in other segments in health, in education and education, in the cultural and social life of the child and affected even 160 regulations that can regulate all these rights. What is very important is that the attorney-general established also district offices, that at that time and increased work on the job, increased the number of contacts and the number of applications and what is particularly significant direct contact with children through the youth network, and points out that it is necessary to bring the Ombudsman's office closer to the ground, to bring closer to those situations where children, live, reside, where these violations of their rights take place, and that the tendency to unite a single branch office since they work on very similar acts, therefore working on the principle of protecting fundamental human rights, and to develop more specificities on the ground by hiring and giving tasks of specific professions and professions that would be in daily contact with children and children is essential. I think in that context we should also watch this unification of the Attorney General at one level. What was achieved during the term of office of our Ombudsman Mile Jelavić, which is precisely that the lawyer was present at every event in society, that she was making a statement either through the media or through contacts of direct institutions and institutions where violations occurred, that the right to recognise in society the need for child rights, that it was aware that children needed to be included in all areas of life and that there was a better visibility of understanding and exercise of rights. It has been achieved precisely because of frequent reactions from the Office of Advocates Milo Jelavic's general opinion that child abuse and violence against children are inadmissible and that there are too many rights to condemn and break prejudices in which children's rights have often been placed in the context of responsibility, and in society it has often been known to hear statements that children have too many rights nowadays and that these are the causes of failure to comply with their obligations. Children are born with rights, and responsibilities to their obligations both to society and to parents and to their learning are responsible parents, but also to the narrow and wider social community. We like to say that the Ombudsman is independent and independent, that the Ombudsman for children should be a government correction and ruling institutions and institutions, we think that more or less Mila Jelavic has succeeded. It is very difficult to always achieve this, if we know already today we have the opportunity to see about the procedure and the way it is called and how the lawyer is resolved, and then it is a little harder to expect that he can be completely independent. As for the prosecutor, whom the government is proposing for the new lawyer Ivana Milas-Klaric, we may say since we have already repeated, we have been denied a lot of data, but in the debate and perhaps in the questions we will get answers to some. According to Article 22. The Law on the work of the Ombudsman for children is cited as a condition for the appointment of a lawyer candidate in this case because it is women's persons, that it has VSS and 10 years of work experience and work for children. From the CV of Ms. Ivana Milas-Klarić we can see that it is a doctor, a doctor of science, that she is employed at the Faculty of Law at the Department of Family Law and we see that she has had a lot of scientific work, although mainly from the field of lack of business skills related to family-law and the same area of family-law protection. Ms. Ivana Milas-Klaric's career is related to the Faculty of Law, and from this Faculty of Law, she probably intends to assume this duty, therefore, to work directly with children and experience in this area, we really don't see it. Of course, as a scientist, she was a member of national committees, international associations, and in this regard had her own scientific papers and degrees. I know it may not be too questionable and talk about what we don't know, but we can only express our expectations of a future attorney. The Ombudsman for children must have specialized knowledge, but the law itself said that he must be an ethical and moral person with a sense of the problem he represents, with a sense of justice, stick to the principles of justice and to represent all children and all parents and their families, regardless of racial, ethical groups, regardless of cultural, religious, political diversity. The Ombudsman for children, it is also known in the law that he must not be a member of a political party, must not come forward in the interest of any political party, must not represent the interests of any political party, however, it is certainly difficult for an adult to believe that he will not have any ideological indication, that he will not have any political views and thoughts, but in his work and action it must not be recognizable in any case. Of course, the government is responsible for the quality work of both these institutions and any state institutions. The government must allow its lawyer to grow up in accordance with the law and to work in accordance with all these principles we have spoken about. It's hard for us to decide anything now about the future attorney general. We certainly want to have success in the work because it is the interest of society and the interest of children, and about the possible work of Ms. Ivana Milas Klaric, we will be able to do something more concrete about the proposed candidate, probably during the first reporting period of her work and say.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75657	I thank my colleague Murganic. You have two replicas from your club. First Sun Head, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75658	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Given Mrs. Sporish's speed of reasoning, I didn't even get to lift a tile, so I'm going to ask this one more time in the replica of my colleague Murganic, and she was talking about it in part. So the lawyer is the authority of the Croatian Parliament, so we should probably know something about the person the government is proposing. We haven't heard any valid reason why it is the choice, and I'm sorry that it happened, the only thing that is available to us, of course, is her CV, which among other things says that she was involved in the draft of the new Family Law, but I don't think it's the only qualification, without questioning its expertise. However, it is unacceptable and unacceptable that we have no argument, no reason why no longer Mrs Jelavic, or why she should be the new lawyer. I don't think that's good, as much as we'd like to go after what someone wanted to do, which would be or wouldn't be. So we're talking about the present, or we're talking about the future of children in Croatia, and I'm not sure on the basis of which bases we as advocates here should make a fair and best decision in the interests of children.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75659	A colleague named Nada Murganić will reply to your reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75660	My colleagues of the Sun, I may have been a little embarrassed that I cut short, and part of this exposure precisely because the listing of data from the CV might be a little dry and eventually we all got it in the proposal. I wouldn't like to be seen as approaching with some prejudice, otherwise it's not my personal attitude and it's not the club's attitude that we can speak in advance of why we doubt if someone will do their job well, we really don't doubt it. What might be more useful to me in the conclusion, and perhaps also in this presentation, and probably in answering you to this request, it would be possible that the proposing said why it is being resolved, or we know why Mrs. Mila Jelavic is being resolved because her mandate has expired. But why wasn't she taken into account as a legitimate candidate, given that we think she had good results in her work, and if the promoter thought it wasn't useful for us to know and it might be too much why this one no longer, and she has the right under the law to a repeat term, and the next candidate does. Probably to meet those expectations that the previous attorney general didn't. So it's all based on speculation. I repeat what I said, perhaps during the first reporting period we will be able to have one valid comparison. Of course, it is very important for us all to have the work of an attorney, no matter what form we are in, more or less, more personally and the club represents a decentralised kind of thinking, we believe that experts need to get closer to the field and to the children, but we certainly want it to be a good work.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75661	The controversy continues within the HDZ Club. The replica rises to the twilight of the twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75662	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This is not a controversy within the club because on behalf of the promoter we haven't even been able to lift the replica board. Dear colleagues, what concerns me is not this CV, but what concerns me is what I'm worried about this way, and that's what fellow Sobol said on behalf of the club. You've also chosen a lawyer for...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75663	Look, fellas, we can't do this. You can't answer the line right now and answer to your colleague Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75664	No, I'm not answering, I'm...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75665	You answer, you quote her. Stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75666	Among other things, she said the D.A. would...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75667	My colleagues, I'll take your word for it. You can't talk like that. You can't answer what fellow Sobol said, you can't. You're polarizing within the club, you're replicating yourself, but you can't replicate your colleague and mention your colleague Sobol and answer to what she said.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75668	And for what? For what?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75669	You can't. You can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75670	So what for? So I'm sorry, can I go all the way?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75671	Because that's the kind of Rules of Procedure. Finish your reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75672	Please, it is a pretty sentence that as long as the above-mentioned attorney is doing his job well, no matter what was chosen during the HDZ term, he will, therefore, act as lawyer for gender equality. This means in the conclusion that in the opinion of the ruling attorneys, Mila Jelavic does not do her job well and has not done her job, so she is no longer given a chance. And this is how it just changes. That's what I wanted to say and it's a replica. And we know well that Attorney General Mila Jelavic was indeed very often a government correction and that government for 8 years, meaning our government in HDZ, was independent of all this. And there's a series of international confessions. I don't even know Mrs. Ivana Milas Klaric like you. We know her CV, and I'm sorry that today Mrs. Milas Klaric must experience our debate in this way. But this is true, revenge seems to me to be a HDZ SDP. You chose her, and we'll replace her.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75673	I'm going to have to propose to the President of the Parliament that we amend the Rules of Procedure because this is becoming pointless. On behalf of the Jadranka Kosor Club And the answer, I'm sorry. [[/Intruder: What do I have the right to answer?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75674	Excuse me, I'd like to calm this down a little bit, though. Comrade Sumrak, I agree with you that it is, under quotes, that Mrs. Mila Jelavic was a correction of power. I will also say that no one is perfect and no one can satisfy this many opinions and tastes as they all come together and requires that we all expect from individuals together. All of us together, we resented our colleague Mili Jelavić when she expressed some views that may not have been in line with HDZ's opinions. Let's say even at the time of the debate on health care, but that's why her authority grew, which is why she proved that her own to say so and independence, the role she played as a correction of power. I think and repeat it would be easier for all of us to know why Mila Jelavic is no longer a good lawyer, why the promoter thinks that Ms. Ivana Milas Klaric would be better. If we had that argument, and you certainly have it, I believe these discussions would really calm down. Because I don't think we're in the best interest of tension, especially when we're talking about names and when it might sound incorrect and unprofessional.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75675	On behalf of the club Jadranka Kosor and HGS, a respected colleague of Jadranka Kosor will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75676	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the Ministry or Government. I am sorry that the proposed candidate for prosecutor for children is obviously starting her term of office, because she will certainly be elected since she is proposed by the pardoned Government of the Republic of Croatia, the term of office in this atmosphere begins. Therefore, the atmosphere and mistrust and debate on whether all business conditions are met. Of course, it would be much better, and I suggest that it become a practice like here was a practice that the candidate, also the government for the attorney general, was invited to the board meeting, the parent board, that not only the members of that committee could ask him anything, to hear him thinking about his mandate. So I think it should become a practice for all other candidates elected by the Croatian Parliament. We, our system and our relationship to democracy, of course, must improve, not watch what happened yesterday and how someone did it yesterday, but continuously perfect what is called parliamentary democracy. Of course it would be good to hear and why the government thinks this is the best candidate, even though I absolutely don't have any objections to the résumé on the scientific career of the proposed candidate. He's respectable, because it's about a doctor of science who's worked extremely hard and extremely hard all these years. See only since 2008, for example, in which all the governments of the past participated in very serious projects concerning children and families. And when we talk about childcare, of course we have to talk about family care. So good practice would be. I believe she will one day become one. We heard there were three applications only. One of them wasn't valid. I know from my experience that there has never been an attack so far for this arraignment as well as for other attorneys. And it's not easy to reach a candidate who's going to be able to carry out his duties with respect. Mrs. Sobol said she mentioned just before the government proposed. True, we suggested that unification, of course, and that proposal went, was on the trail and certain savings. That's what gave up. We need to see if it was such a bad suggestion or not, but anyway. So, you should mention what it was and I absolutely don't run away from it. It's some past that no one should be ashamed of. So, I don't think politics can survive for long by those who are ashamed of what they did two, three or five or fifty years ago. As for Mrs. Jelavic, I think it's time to say something about her. She did a good job. She was conscious, she was industrious, she gave initiatives, she was present and she encouraged and gave some incentives for changing some laws. And I think that we can mark and evaluate her mandate as a good work of an institution that hasn't yet been given the place she deserves. Let us put our hands on the heart, when it comes to defenders, they come to the Croatian Parliament, report it, and something is said more or less competently about it, and that story ends. But the right place in the Croatian society is being arranged by the attorney general, and neither the staff attorney nor the others now have. Absolutely not. They don't even have state protocol. I have often attended gatherings where all three, let's say, attorneys, and they were almost not welcomed and almost there was no place for them. So what is written on paper must be translated into real life. The Ombudsman for children must be particularly loud. I think it's a lawyer who has to be particularly loud, energetic, and I'd even dare say sometimes and bold. It must react openly and without a remnant to all forms, i.e. phenomena in a society related to child sexual abuse, pedophilia, fiercely, strongly encourage conversations about it. The abuse in the media. We still witness today often the abuse of children in the media. The abuses politicians commit. So, taking pictures with children when it suits them, even with their own children for promiscation purposes. In particular, the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman must be sensitive to children with disabilities, not only to react if a case occurs. We had a case last year with a child in a Zagreb school. Not then, but go meet the problem. In all schools where there is, where no disabled child is enrolled, adjustments must be made, efforts must be made to ensure the dignity and dignity of every child and of course his parents, or family. The Ombudsman must speak out loud and clear about poor children, about poverty in general. Not only when he writes about it in a journal or weekly, about sick children. Let's say the section in Klaic, colleagues and colleagues know that in the past government we have allocated considerable resources to improve the conditions of treatment for children at Klaic's hospital and today unfortunately, the oncology department is in poor condition. But it's certainly guilt and all of us in political space no matter which side we were on today, yesterday or the day before yesterday. However, I think that in such situations, it must literally encourage opportunities to be improved every day. In the school system clearly, in the fight against addiction and drugs but especially alcohol. The Ombudsman must speak clearly and loudly of violent behavior, of peer violence without tightness and with no rest, regardless of whose children and whose children were possibly violent. And of course I think that the Attorney's Office, and this may be in the future, too, has to initiate some activities that are also related to the recent past. Here in Slavonski Brod we know that a whole class of children died and that marking the memory of all the children who died, so really small, only children born but all children until 18 must be organized in a different, more dignified way. and I think that also the Office of Advocates for Children or Advocates and Governments, but the Croatian Parliament must participate in this, raise a real monument that will forever remind us of what happened. But, colleagues and colleagues, with this debate, I suggest, I believe that all of you who have applied for the debate once again have read our Law on the Ombudsman for children, and I think that since this law has been passed since 2003, much has changed. I suggest we consider changes and additions. First of all, because it is the main subject of the conflict of interference, confusion is the fact that one of the attorneys ceases office, and the government proposes another name for appointment. Namely, the law states that a child counsel is appointed for 8 years but says he can be re-appointed. So I can be re-appointed. These can be once again called meanings to eternity. So there's no limit to the mandate. We can do 8 plus 8 plus 8 plus 8. I don't think that's good. I think we should track down what we've already opened up the debate and whether we're ever gonna talk about it or not, I think it would be good for the Supreme Court president, the Attorney General, and so on and so forth to the Attorney General. So, if it can be then you have to write another mandate because someone who would get a term several times eight years in a row think it wouldn't be, absolutely wouldn't be good. So in that sense, the law needs to be changed. Article 6 here states that the Ombudsman advocates the protection and promotion of the rights and interests of children with special needs. That formulation has long been abandoned, and we have to change it for nothing else. So, children with disabilities, special needs do not exist. That's what we all said at the time, but today it's unacceptable. The Ombudsman is said to be a Croatian citizen who has a high level of expertise and who is known to the public in the field of promotion and protection of children's rights. It's also a very difficult criteria to meet. So, to the general public, we all know someone who advocates and promotes children's rights. So I think this formulation, or this formulation, should be considered. And here it is said that the Attorney General and his deputies are being resolved for the permanent loss of ability to behave in office. I think it's also a very dubious formulation. So, only if he loses his ability to act as a child's attorney. We're going to do it somehow differently, and it's said to the one who's legally convicted of a crime. Well, I think someone who would have been convicted in the first degree of sexual abuse of children or any crimes against children, and if convicted in the first degree, he could no longer be a lawyer. So it shouldn't be in those cases that it would be devastating to wait for the power of judgment. Here's what I'd suggest, perhaps on that trail, we should consider changes and additions. As far as the proposed candidate is concerned, it is very interesting to me that she is a lecturer at the election college Human Rights Persons with Disabilities, which is now working on the new Family Law, but also the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation, the Committee for the Making of the National Plan against Sexual Use of Children, means 2008, the European System of Human Rights and Croatian Family Law, etc., therefore a respectable CV but unfortunate circumstances in which the candidate proposes herself as a lawyer, so that I propose also for the protection of the integrity of persons who then appear in front of the Croatian Assembly of names and last name and on whom we must vote and for the protection of their integrity that we are truly consistent and literally looking after the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75677	Thank you. We have a report of three replicas, first honorary colleague of Gordana Sobol, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75678	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues Kosor, somewhere at the beginning of your presentation, you said you were actually sorry to see us here in a atmosphere like this today discussing a proposal for a new guardian for children. However, you remember, and you know that this is not the first time and everything that has happened and when the current Ombudsman for children, Mila Jelavic, was finally elected and what proposals were, unfortunately, not eligible for the terms of the law before her. What I also want to say about the problems of the entire justice system for children is that we are all talking here today about Mila Jelavic, that Mila Jelavic, who has led this institution for the past eight years but I will dare say that the foundations of this institution and the visibility of the problem that this institution is dealing with, were actually the first defender Ljubica Matijević-Vrsaljaljko and after that, Milo Jelavic. Otherwise, I personally agree that maybe in the future we should consider limiting the mandate and we are now talking about one term, and that's eight years, and now it should be another one, that's another eight years, that's 16 years. Well, it doesn't say anything that you can't do after that. I would especially like to underline the applications, so the public call was, the applications came, the government decided what was the right to propose not to date but to a new candidate, and I think that this is something that is unquestionable and if it was to be more likely to know about this new candidate that he was constantly invited here today and to the committee meeting yesterday, so counterpart Darko Milinovic, who called on the board, as Mila Jelavic called on me very much why he didn't invite Ivana Milos Klaric. I think that would be normal before he called Mila Jelavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75679	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75680	Thank you very much. Comrade Sobol, yes, I don't know what the procedure was on the Committee on Parent Committee, but I think it makes sense that candidates are calling for them to be there as long as necessary and need to answer questions. And I said in my presentation, we should always change practice for the better. So, you don't need to look back at the past and see what someone did wrong, but all those who are present and who will one day be back in this assembly most will perfect that practice. I agree with you. I was just talking about Mrs. Jelavic, whose mandate ended, Mrs. Matijević-Vrsaljaljko did an extremely large job to promote the lawyer's office in general in order to start functioning as an institution. It's this job that's always very difficult at first, and it's done great, so we can say that we have two attorneys for kids who did a good job and I'm glad you accept this suggestion about changing the law. In this particular case for children for life because there is absolutely no limit, and I think it is especially for every institution that has to be independent that leaders change, that new ones come. That actually gives us new energy and a new take-off. So I suggest we think about this and try to prepare a harmonised proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Ombudsman for children.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75681	Another replica, dear colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75682	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm glad, my colleague, that you actually talked about this topic not only about people but also about institutions. This is very important so that institutions work in the everyday staff combination. However, even at this time when it comes to the institution of the Ombudsman for children, I suppose to point out once again, although it has already been mentioned by fellow Sobol, that it is an institution that was established during the SDP coalition and that the second time when it threatened the danger, or was already, it has already been passed a law on the abolition of that institution, however, here, when we were on that occasion, particularly aware of special powers and special duties and child care, this institution has been preserved. And one more thing, I agree with you and about your one thought, one new energy, no one can say that Mrs. Mila Jelavić, that she did not do well, unfortunately a few times the then government and listened to her, but in any case she as a beginner, when she came to this place she had no such experience, directly one contact, so here we believe that, thanks to Mrs. Mili Jelavic, we believe that with new power, on good foundations, she will do her job as a new candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75683	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75684	Yes, you shut down, and I'm on fire with each other. So, about the institution, exactly, we are actually talking today, and it would be good for the debate that will follow to be concentrated on the institution of the attorney's office, or the attorney general, and less on the persons who were or who would be, because it is an institution that we have to constantly strengthen because it has to be independent. And you mentioned a proposal from the last government about that, but not to have the child's attorney's office abolished, but the proposal went to all concentrate in the Attorney General's Office and to keep their part-time work. I don't think it was a bad proposal today, but here we now have a new practice, or new old practice, and I don't think we should say now what it would have been, but what it is, which is that we need to strengthen together no matter who's going to be on that duty, to strengthen it to do without the burden of what anyone in the Croatian Parliament will say. If the Office of Advocates or Advocates for Children is working in accordance with the law, then they will continue to do a good job and it is, Mrs Jelavić came in the same way when there was not a very big rush as it is now, and that is indicative of something that we could further consider as politicians. Why, for example, is there no big attack on that duty? Why isn't there, I don't know, 200 candidates and candidates or why women usually appear, e.g.? Why do women usually show up? It's the same very, very interesting question because they're also officials, so they have all the infrastructure, but as you can see, there's no particular interest in that duty.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75685	Third and last replica, Honored Dujomir Marasovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75686	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mrs. Kosor, Mila Jelavic was not a member of the party, this one now is either the lady or it will be, that's it. I don't think there's much to be bothered about. I hope that I will not be interrupted by you, Mr. Vice President, you have the right to think that a party can be abolished, but you have no right to restrict me to a replica, in the introduction to a replica, to speak of what I want which is not against the law of the Croatian State and which is not against the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, and it does not say anywhere in the Rules that I have no introduction in the replica to mention anything right, any name here. That we understand each other. So, Mrs. Kosor, you said that politicians, that politicians should not be allowed to abuse children, absolutely agree with you, I think that every normal one agrees and should agree, but what I want to replicate to you, in a way, warn a little bit. I think we should be careful not to cross the border, so that every contact between politicians and children is not declared child abuse. If a mayor or mayor comes to open a school or kindergarten, what is expected of children being around him? Well, it's not child abuse. I came from where I went to school, so normal kids go on TV, so it's interesting when kids... I'm not being abused. The abuse would be if Comrade Tito would wave gloves, and us in high school... It's an abuse or something. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But we also need to have a limit in this sphere of life political that we know that not all child abuse, where it's natural, let the children appear, that's my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75687	There's no answer to this replica. One notice only, before we continue the debate. We'll finish this item on the agenda and we'll discuss the next item of the agenda, but then we won't do the breaks. I think it's economical. So we continue to discuss... On behalf of the SDP club will speak esteemed Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75688	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Deputy Minister. Here, on behalf of the SDP club, we would like to thank the current Ombudsman for the children of Ms. Mili Jelavić and give the same to Ms. Ljubici Matijević-Vrsaljko, and give support to the proposed Ivana Milas-Klarić. Why? Because we are in the SDP we are actually aware of the importance of such an institution. Namely, my colleagues said before that we were in the SDP, during the SPD government we founded this institution, this institute, and we also saved it in one hand that it doesn't go under one common cap. We therefore see the value, that is, of the importance of this institute, or the Ombudsman for children. When we are talking about children's rights, then we must provide children with everything they need for growth and development. It is, of course, the responsibility of all of us adults whether we are parents, guardians, whether we work in the media, whether we are politicians or all those who come into contact with children. In fact, all these things are actually written and put into the text of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and that is when you look at a very wide area or we can say that it is among the widest documents of international agreements. When we talk about children's rights, we must stress that this is the need of every child, I repeat, that it grows, that it develops, that it survives, that it can meet all of its potentials. It is the right to health care, it is the right to family care, it is the right to participation or participation in decisions especially when it comes to themselves. Then it is the right to protect against violence, and children are at risk today, and we see it from the reports that we receive every year from the attorney general. However, I must stress that the UN Conventions already mentioned before must be mentioned in Norway when it was established in 1981 by the first defence institute. With us as we have heard, we know that since 2003 we have the Law on the Ombudsman for Children as an independent body that promotes the rights of the child, follows everything in the interests of the Republic of Croatia and in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child of the UN and other international documents. Every year in the Croatian Parliament, we have reports from the Ombudsman for children, and then we see essentially the right state of relations with children. There were complaints and various initiatives. We've been reading from reports and individual violations of the rights and interests of children, and also on the basis of some general levels. Since 2003, of course this institute has been developing, and offices in Osijek, Rijeka, Split have been opened, and a network of young advice has been created. It is also our office is a member of the European Network of Advocates for Children, etc. it was also working on international co-operation. Of course, during these years, changes in policies towards children have occurred, changes in direct treatment with children, and legal regulations have also been improved. There have been talks here today about the length of the mandate and surely we in the SDP are thinking that maybe too long or too long to say, stop because it is not good to keep repeating the possibility, is the repeat of the mandate, but somewhere I found that the late lawyer for gender equality said that the actual term of 8 years is long and that it really needs change. So, I think if we make remarks about the amendments and the additions to this law, I think we should work on it. On rights, I repeat myself, it's done a lot. Today we have a proposal for a new guardian for the children, I think we should give it a chance. I have in front of me a reference on the person who was proposed to Mrs Ivani Milas-Klaric and I think the references speak a lot. There were speeches today and remarks on whether she worked with the children. These references suggest that they can continue where they care or that they can work safely and we believe that they will work to improve the rights and protection of children. Here we are, on behalf of the SDP, of course, supporting the new Ombudsman for the children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75689	We have two replicas. First of all, the gnome of the twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75690	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues Bonačić, you are indeed as always a reflection of culture and everything in this House needs, and I think sometimes it is nice for the representatives of the government because it is really nice that you said in your first sentence and thanked Mrs. Mili Jelavic and it is nice and it is human. Unfortunately, we haven't heard that from a representative of the government or a representative. But there remains a bitter feeling, which I said in that former replica when I was interrupted by Mr. Chairman. That bitter feeling is really possible for Mrs. Klaric, I'm sorry, why there are no arguments. Mrs. Mila Jelavić, here's the last of her interventions was on budget rebalance, warned that 300 thousand kuna were reduced from office position. She wondered how the projects would be handled and she boomed, left without a word, without anything. It is not disputed that you have the right to propose your own but it is disputed that there are no arguments that would be relevant. The CV of the lady is absolutely top-of-the-line but just as nice and thank you, Mrs. Bonačić, for saving the honor and face of the government and thanking Mrs. Mili Jelavic, because as surely as most of you will choose another lawyer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75691	The replica corresponds to the respected Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75692	Thank you very much, fellow complimentary. But that's a compliment to all of us because I spoke on behalf of the SDP club, so I can't accept just me, I can't accept all of us here at the club. Whenever someone's new pickings are always for, some are against, so I think I was clear why not give a chance to a colleague who has extraordinary references. I think you have a bench, too, so I think it's a potential that will continue to work and even work to improve because the children's defender's institute is something that's been developing, and you've seen since 2003 when you look, it's been developing a lot, and I hope that the new proposed colleague, i.e. the new elected lady, will continue to work even better to improve children's rights in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75693	Another replica, respected Nada Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75694	My colleague Bonačić, you really spoke on behalf of the club, and perhaps your debate made it clear that you were not direct and in some way I appreciate it. It's expected that the new attorney is obviously something new, so you've already said in your reply. We'd like to think maybe, I might be repeating myself and maybe a little boring, but we were really told what's new. With all due respect, Mrs. Jelavic, I repeat, we did not say why she resented it. The most common name Mrs. Milas Klaric was connected to participation in the new Family Law which really received a lot of discussions, a lot of dissatisfaction and a lot of opposition by the profession. Whether a new lawyer is expected to have a more liberal approach, perhaps something new, because we know that she was right on the other side of the law, or the other side of the so-called law. Supposedly conservative currents. We note that the Ombudsman for children must equally advocate pluralism, equally protect the right of all, the right of children, regardless of any commitment to them and their views, and that the state must not impose itself in its educational or purely educational, ideological view above the right of parents who are the only one entitled to direct their child.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75695	The replica corresponds to the respected Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75696	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Members, I can see that you're actually in doubt, that you have a variety of insinuations, which is new, or how the newly proposed attorney is going to work. However, if you were interested in HDZ then a proposed candidate would be invited to the board, not just the attorney-general so far. Then we'd actually have an opportunity to hear from both, or from the candidate, hear from each other. And as for what's new, don't do it that way, it's all insinuations, because eventually and legally, the new lawyer will also work on the basis of the Constitution and international contracts and laws. After all, it's in the Attorney General's Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75697	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, a respected colleague, Igor Coleman, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75698	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs and deputies, esteemed deputy ministers. Obviously, we agree more or less, the attorneys so far have done a great job and should really say thank you, they have absolutely earned it and should stress that the scale has been set very high. In the child's attorney's office, the scale was set very high. I personally, as a contact of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe against the sexual exploitation of children in the last two years, have had very good cooperation with Advocate Jelavic and from that experience, and by looking at the years before I can say on my behalf and on behalf of the club we believe that there has been a systematic and serious operation. The office and office initiatives have always been present and visible in more or less public events, and this is extremely important because in such a sensitive topic that is important, which is dangerous, which is essential, whatever you want to call it in various circumstances, it is crucial in various ways, but it still needs constant sensitisation, constant awareness of people that it is a topic and that it is a job that needs to be seriously, permanently and continuously dealt with and the lawyer's office and lawyer Jelavic have done a lot and serious work in this regard. The other thing to point out is the fact that young people are involved in the office's business. We are here in the Assembly recently some of you here and were at this meeting when the Ombudsman came and when a whole series of young people, her associates from all over Croatia, we all who were sitting there were fascinated in the most positive sense possible, articulation, intelligence and concreteness of the motions of objections and initiatives we heard there from people who were not even age-old, who had entered into that system that the Ombudsman had set up for children. She has often made it clear, with professional responsibility and civic courage, about the problems of children in the Republic of Croatia, about poverty, about hunger, about violence, about topics related to education and about numerous bill proposals at various stages. In other words, the new lawyer we're proposing here will have to fill very large shoes. It will still need to work intensively on issues that remain open, problems in education are numerous and widespread. Within the family, a whole range of issues that the attorney general is concerned about when it comes to family law is a subject that we are not talking about enough. Our judiciary is not adapted to children and young people whether they are victims, whether they are perpetrators or witnesses. It's a subject that we've just got to start dealing with more seriously. In terms of poverty, when it comes to child poverty, I don't just think about those statistical categories of income available or property or the lack of roof over head or number of squares. It is one whole, one wide range of topics of access to education, access to health care, access to cultural content. So, all those topics that the child determines not only while the child is a child but for the rest of his life. I'll give you just one example of it. For example, access to protection of teeth and dental devices and the possibility of the child getting a dental device. Some European research has shown that people who do not have proper teeth are even discriminated against on the labour market. So hundreds are, thousands are such things that a person at a time when a child can determine for a lifetime a positive or negative. And the task of the new lawyer among other things, but all of us here will also be to talk and think about such things and that daily one of my predecessors or predecessors said every day should call, pull by the sleeve, quote and all that it takes to make changes really happen. We hope, therefore, that Mrs. Milas Klaric will justify the trust she will receive if she gets it. And so far its own professional work in this area and related areas. And before I finish, I'd just like to say one more thing about this case, but it's also about all cases before. Some of my predecessors talked about it in part. We'd really love to, we often talk about candidates here, names that are actually ghosts for us here in the Parliament. And I also suggest on behalf of the HNS Club that we find some solution that these people we're talking about, that we choose and vote on are actually present, starting with being symbolically here, to actually having an opportunity to talk to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75699	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First honoured Jadranka Kosor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75700	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Coleman, I'll start from this last one you mentioned. I think we should think about it and you said a great ladder was high up. In this area, we must constantly lift the ladder together, not just the lawyer's office or the lawyer's office and all the other lawyers, but the ones we choose. So, lift that ladder and then go one step further and as you said and see them. Not just on the board, seeing them at the plenary session. But I think it's still important that something that can be added to the amendments to the law, and that we hear these candidates, let's hear what they're proposing because it's big, it's a long period. Eight years, eight years in office. It's an extremely long time and it would be worth hearing what a candidate or candidate is proposing to do for that time. Where and in what sense will raise that ladder to more, and I think that must be everyone's ambition. And I agree with you. It's about extremely sensitive issues, it's about children, it's about human rights, fundamental human rights and the greatest values of the Constitution because the Constitution says that we should especially protect children. And I completely agree with your note that the judiciary is still unadjusted. It's the same thing that I think the Office of Advocates for Children in the future will have to deal with more, give more initiatives, and on us here in the Assembly after the first report will be, we'll see and test how consistent we really were behind what we're saying today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75701	The replica matches the esteemed Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75702	I thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Kosor, I agree with everything you've said. I'd just like to comment further, so this is that the ladder is up, but it needs to be constantly raised absolutely. Where we should not be ashamed of ourselves as a country, we should not be ashamed of the situation in which we are. The subject of childcare and children's rights is a permanent topic in all Member States of the European Union, members of the Council of Europe, and I am not talking about all countries of the world. So it's not something that's an indicator of the bad state that we have to keep working to make it better. It is simply an indication that we are aware of the situation of society, the time in which we live, that we are aware, as you yourself said, of fundamental human rights and that children are at least able to fight for their human rights and fundamental human rights. So, the task of all of us, society, states from the attorney general to the next, starting and ending with it and working on it continuously and continuously. As far as the judiciary is concerned, that's an absolute problem that we have not only ourselves, I repeat again. So, let's say right now in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, one resolution in preparation for this problem. So he is also recognized at the level of other European countries. You remember maybe I was speaking at the time, one of those examples is that so-called. A children's house, this Icelandic model where a child actually dealing with a judicial system in any situation at all, doesn't even physically enter a police station or a court. Because even if the child is not wrong and is not the victim, especially for younger children I enter the station or the court is shocked and in some way message whether I was quite right.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75703	Second replica, the esteemed Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75704	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Coleman, I'm a little confused with your debate. You've said so nicely and expressed a great pleasure, you're fascinated by what the attorney-general has done, and then the proposal says, so the second proposal, the second name. Now I don't know if she really wasn't interested in something like that because this is what it looks like to me in those mob movies when the mob boss of his own co-worker kisses his forehead, which means he's condemned to no longer exist. That's what it looks like to me here. Now I don't understand if the D.A. was really doing so well when it was no longer proposed or anything else?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75705	The replica matches Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75706	I thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. My colleague Hrg seems to me from my perspective that my debate was actually very clear and understandable. I commended myself, and I made an effort to commend the attorney-general so far, and I said that I hoped that the new one would justify the trust. And I think in that part, both in one part and in the other, I was very clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75707	Thank you very much. We don't have any more replicas. Now we will continue on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party the word will be received by the distinguished representative Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75708	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed deputy ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I don't think it's a good way to argue with us today. Maybe we're all right and everything we say may even be standing from that point of view both sides, but the way we do it, I think it's definitely wrong for us. We went into a debate without the board's opinion. We heard here that the chairman of the board called Ms. Jelavic's attorney but did not invite a new candidate, Mrs. Milas Klaric. Was he supposed to invite a new candidate, Milos Klaric, or was he supposed to invite someone representing the government? And as far as I know, the government was called through its representative to come but they didn't respond. If the Government proposes to us in the Croatian Parliament a candidate for counsel, and we choose and vote on this candidate then the Government stands behind that man because it is the government's decision and the government has decided who will propose to the Croatian Parliament and the Government all competences and all the skills of the man it has chosen should be defended and justified to explain why it is the best candidate or candidate for the government, it is not done. The second thing that I think we did wrong is that in the opening statement, we heard nothing about why so far Mrs Jelavic's attorney is changing and what are the arguments that go to Ms. Milos Klaric's new candidate, and what makes the government think that the new lawyer would be better than the one that was so far. I think that those of us who raise our hands and who vote for attorney or attorney, in this case, we have the right to know what was bad so far or not good enough, and that the government thinks that with the new attorney, it's going to be better than what was so far. We haven't heard that, and that's the bad way I'm talking about it because this really leaves a bitter taste in the mouth that something doesn't work in the way that it should work primarily for the good of children and then for the good of the whole society. We're talking about CV, and how good he is, and how perfect he is, how much is there no objections to the new lawyer who's going to be elected tomorrow, but what does CV mean without a work programme? What did the government really choose to hire a new child's attorney based solely on CV, and without any work program that the attorney-in-law is going to do with the Child's Attorney's Office? What are her visions, what are her goals for the eight years she gets her mandate? All the time we've been talking about how long the eight-year term is for every lawyer, and that's why we need to change the laws. But if this mandate is due now for Ms. Mila Jelavic then it will also be a debt for the new lawyer who comes. But it's also going to be a debt, and for all of us who tomorrow have to raise our hand for that person without seeing what she's thinking, she wants, she wants to do in the next eight years. On what basis are we going to say after a year or two, we misjudged, misjudged, misjudged, or didn't know what we thought a year or two ago when a bad situation happened to us in a year or two? What are we going to say if the results of the new attorney's office aren't as good as the results of the lawyer's so far? What will be our argument for our justification? That's not good. And I think that without a quality program of working on an 8-year-old mandate, we declare ourselves unserious and superficial and we don't care what happens for the next 8 years. Speaking of which, and we didn't hear it here in the House, but here I am, for the record and for the public's sake, trying to get at least a few things closer to us and to the citizens. The lawyer's office was therefore established in 2003, and Mrs. Mila Jelavic took office on 31 March 2006. Since 2007, the Ombudsman for children except in Zagreb has also worked in offices in Osijek, Rijeka and Split. It's the only lawyer's office I have to say my business like that. Other offices don't have that. A small house of children's rights in Zagreb has begun since 2013. As part of the activity of the office since 2010, the children's advisory body The network of young counselors for children is in which 25 children aged 12-18 and these are the extremely smart people that Coleman used to talk about. The Ombudsman’s Office for Children in 2004 had 11 employees, today 19 with those 11 employees including the Ombudsman and two deputies who worked on 524 individual infringements of children’s rights and 111 general initiatives today, which has 19 employees as I said during 2013 worked on 1436 individual infringements of children’s rights and 1215 general initiatives and other jobs. Between 10 years from September 2003 and September 2013 The Ombudsman’s office worked on a total of 8685 individual infringements of children’s rights and the Ombudsman sent almost as many warnings, recommendations and proposals for protection of children’s rights. The office also worked on 9364 general initiatives. Over the past ten years, the Ombudsman has made 245 general recommendations for the protection and promotion of children's rights in Croatia and submitted 617 different proposals concerning the amendment or adoption of a total of 160 regulations. In 2008, the office received the first prize for innovative access to prevention of child abuse granted by Women worth summing foundations co-operation with the UN organisation. I only said this because Mrs. Mili Jelavic, the child counsel, in this way, we try to thank for everything that she has done as Head of this office and the Advocate General has done in this eight-year term, and if not for us, some other parliamentary advocates will have the opportunity to see how and what she has done as a new lawyer, but once again I do express my regret that people change in this way and that those who have come as good, qualified as they are, come with one feeling that something has not been done as it should be done and that ultimately they do not even respect all of their competences that we talk about and who they have. That's not good. If I were in a place like this, I wouldn't be pleased to be appointed anywhere, anywhere, for whatever reason, because I don't know what was wrong with my predecessor. There's supposed to be some kind of inventory. Some explanation for this eight-year work should exist, some thanks to that attorney should be if nothing else in one statement of reasoning in eight years is done, that and that. We felt as Government, or think we should do this, and by the plan that has been submitted to us by the new candidate, it is visible that she has a better plan, a better vision of the development of the Ombudsman for the children for the next eight years and based on everything we have received and not only from the CV that I do not say perhaps some political proximity of certain candidates we believe that this candidate is really better than the one that has been so far. I think that we should take such a practice because of those why the defense attorneys are here, but also because of the attorneys and attorneys themselves who would be much easier to be independent and the way we expect them to be as attorneys. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75709	Thank you very much. Your exposure has caused three replicas, the first of which is the respected representative of Đurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75710	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Tyrelli, what I can say, thank you for your debate. You've had the strength and determination to tell the true justice of the truth. Likewise, I thank those who thanked you before, however, Mrs. Mili Jelavić. You are the chairman of the Committee on Gender Equality. There was a very dangerous saying here, and that is, while the prosecutor for gender equality is doing what is right, she will have our support in the context of the explanation why Mrs. Mila Jelavic does not have support. In the context of the motionary on behalf of the Government, one minute, this is a candidate, goodbye! And you said well, neither the guilty nor the ower's new candidate for the child's attorney nor the guilty nor the debtor today is being debated in this way, regrettable but it is also an indication of really these governments and parties in power that they really have no sensitivity and when they intend to do something, it will do it even if there's nothing after that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75711	Thank you very much. I've seen a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75712	Mr. Vice President, article 238 of our Rules of Procedure has been broken. My colleague Gjurdzica Sumrak again, this time in the replica of her colleague Tyrelli, uses my sentence that I gave from the pay phone on behalf of the club after the break. Mrs. twilight, first you can't do it, and second you completely twist the meaning of my sentence. I'm asking you to choose to get a phonogram and read exactly what I said. I said that we in the SDP are not like you in HDZ who have chosen a new lawyer for gender equality, but we will support it, as long as it does well. What's the problem, and why is that scandalous? Please don't twist my words. We had similar remarks on Milo Jelavic when she was elected, we had, but we supported her as long as we thought she was doing her job well in the SDP club, which means she works in accordance with the law for which she was elected. And don't twist my words.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75713	Dear Representative Sobol, I appreciate not only that the Rules of Procedure have not been injured, because Article 238, of course, does not speak at all about what you have been saying, but you have actually abused this institute and I am asking you and everyone else not to abuse this institute. The Institute exists and in time when we changed our Rules of Procedure we changed that Rules of Procedure just so we didn't get the abuse of that institute. Thank you very much. I hope the honourable representative will not abuse this Rules of Procedure either, but here you are, reporting a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75714	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I've picked up a plate of damage to the Rules of Procedure, but right now, you're the one who just said this. Indeed, I am not obliged to provide anyone with a phonogram and prove what you have said. What's said is said. And the rest is written down, I hope if there's no impact on these people down there who write a phonogram to delete because I've memorized exactly what you said to yourself and it doesn't matter, I don't want to paralyze, really with Mrs. Sobol, but my replica was directed to Mrs. Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75715	Thank you very much. And you didn't actually call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so once again, I pray that this institute is not being abused because neither one of them had anything to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. And now we're moving on to the replicas. The next line came back... Excuse me, excuse me. Here, I didn't see you lift.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75716	Thank you. So, colleagues of Sumrak, yes, lawyers must submit annual reports to this Croatian Parliament and what really saddens me is that all reports by the Ombudsman for children have been accepted in this House, which means that we have all assessed that her work is good and that she is doing exactly what she should do and what she should have done. And that's more sad by the fact that at the end of eight years, when we confirm to someone that they're doing well, we praise them, we encourage them to do even more and even better for the benefit of those children, when after 8 years we replace that person without saying a word about why we did it. So, every year, the government gave a positive opinion on the lawyer's report, and all the while, I'm asking myself a question, why now after 8 positive opinions, after accepting a lawyer's report here in the Assembly, we're replacing that person without saying a word about it, and I think that there's this bad way where we're showing some hidden intentions that's not good for anyone today, but it's not going to be good for anybody in the long term, and I don't think it's good at all, if we've characterised something as bad, that we're doing the same bad thing under the assumption that someone before me did it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75717	Thank you very much. The next replica is Gordana Sobol's respected MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75718	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, colleagues Tyreli, first of all, replaces the words that absolutely do not correspond to the truth, children's defender Mili Jelavic, the eight-year term stands out on March 31st. The eight-year term and that is the fact, however, is also true that its previous work reports have been accepted, but the government is assessing as a proposing that one term is sufficient and that it is now proposing a new person in the next term. This new person, her plan, the work program you're talking about, can't expose her, can't the government on her behalf, so with her CV,...the law doesn't write, attach the plan and the program of her action. There's a law, I'm sorry, there's a Law on the Ombudsman for children who's very clear and who's saying what's part of the work, which is obligations and responsibility, the jobs of the lawyer for children and the duties of each attorney, old or now this new one that's proposed, to work in accordance with the law. And we, as Parliamentarians every year on the report, actually assess how much she worked between all the other laws and this fundamental Law on the Ombudsman for children through what it says. I don't see any reason for anything else to change around here. The government did what it did, it did exactly in accordance with the law and in time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75719	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75720	Dear colleagues may be with the law to comply with the law yes, but whether or not according to morals is my dilemma. The government estimates that one term is sufficient. On what basis does the government assess that? If we have a law that says the Ombudsman can report for the next term of office, and now the government has suddenly estimated that one term is sufficient. So change the law, so you have most of it, so change the law. And I didn't say that the government is applying the program, but that whoever reports to the competition should submit the programme in accordance with the law. But what it says in the law that the attorney has to do is dry, and that's where you see what the ability of one who appears in the competition is and what his vision is about the development of any office in this case of the Advocate's Office for Children.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75721	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the respected representative of Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75722	Dear colleagues may be a sequel to this replica to me I must admit in your debate the same obstructed use of certain words, simply here no one replaces Mila Jelavic, Mili Jelavic is formerly the attorney for the children of April 1st, and no one is replacing her. If the Assembly had adopted the Law on the Ombudsman for Children, he thought that the Ombudsman should work as long as his report was accepted in the Assembly, then he would not have been elected for a specified term of office but would have been just as written in the law as long as he had a positive view of the Assembly on the reports then the Ombudsman. So if we choose someone for office then we choose him for office, we choose for 8 years. This isn't a shift, this isn't like you said to explain why it didn't work out, it was good. It's not about someone not doing their job well, it's about giving him a mandate. Some of us will be representatives of the next term, some of us won't, we're running out of mandate. There's one more thing, the question has been asked from where. It seems to me the most from the debate on this House we have had several officials appointed to several consecutive mandates for many years, the lady seems to me to be former state auditor chief Šima Krasic, the current state lawyer Mladen Bajic has always been an object to why they have been doing this job for so long. The case of the second term of Mile Jelavic would have worked for 16 years, contrary to everything that everyone in this House has determined where we said it should be limited to about 8 to 10 years to the top of my head to say so. So far we've all had one policy, which is that no one can do one job too long, now suddenly someone has to do it for so long. That's what this is about. I have a positive opinion on Mile Jelavic's work so I don't have any negatives at all. A colleague's mandate has expired, a new candidate who is equally competent is proposed. And secondly, regarding the conditions, the terms of the appointment of Mile Jelavic were 10 times worse, she is the third candidate to be proposed in this House in the appointment process. The first gave up after a long struggle through committees, the second candidate withdrew and she was only the third candidate to be appointed in the procedure eight years ago. Some of us who were MPs back then know that very well. So to go wrong this doesn't say bad about Mila Jelavic we are about our work accepting reports, it's about the end of the mandate and the appointment of new ones and no more than that. And you shouldn't give it a context where there's no place. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75723	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to stick to the weather. Here you are, to be answered by the esteemed representative, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75724	Just for a little while. I'd just like to hear the answer who's going to guarantee it if it's not good. And from where anyone now thinks, I think a lot of things are not good and I think a lot of things are either too much or too little and now the government suddenly thinks 8 years is a lot or 8 more years too much, and that's why it proposes another candidate. So you're jumping into your own mouth exactly what I'm saying. I don't mind that government proposal, absolutely nothing, but change the law. Then write in the law that the term of office of the Advocate-General is 8 years and that the same lawyer can no longer be re-elected. But when you're talking, don't throw yourself at me like this, pick up your lines then you got a chance, you said what you said now I've got my two minutes that I'm not going to use because it obviously doesn't make any sense to argue with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75725	Thank you very much. We ended up on behalf of the club of representatives, and now we'd move on to an individual debate. She received an honorary representative, Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75726	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. After 8 years, we have the opportunity to decide on a child counsel. But I would say that this is an opportunity to remind ourselves that there are critical points in the way of proposing the election of officials who correspond to the Croatian Parliament. Namely, this example shows that all ombudsmans should therefore be led within the Croatian Assembly by all four Advocates and Commissioners for the right to access information. Because according to the nature of the Ombudsman's work, Commissioners who correspond to the Croatian Parliament, it is about Commissioners who must be raised above the level of the executive authority by nature and who will not be able to answer anything nor be in a position for the executive authority to decide whether to be re-elected or not. Because by the nature of the job, and especially by the Office of the Advocate General for Children, a lot of things that happen in the system, especially in the institutional part, is the responsibility of the Executive Authority and by the nature of the work of the Advocate or Advocate must be critical of this system. Let this be an incentive for us to equalize standards and that all commissioners, all defenders are elected to the Croatian Assembly in a way that leads the full procedure before the committee of directors and ends up in front of the plenary session, that is, at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. Only then can we actually talk about the real autonomy and independence of the institutions of the Commissioner, or the Advocate General. Not until then. I sincerely hope that among the criteria that the proponent has been led and the reasons are not the fact that Mrs Jelavic and her office in principle welcomed the Government of Croatia's intention to propose a new Family Law also said a whole series of suggestions for its improvements, as Mrs Ivana Milas Klaric was a member of the commission working on the preparation of this law. One of the criteria is therefore a reputation in the wider community when it comes to the experience of the candidate. I have spent 25 years directly and indirectly dealing with children and young people, never in my life heard of Mrs. Milos Klaric until a year ago, until before her activity at the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to prepare the Family Law. This does not have to mean anything, but it is my obligation to say that I am both Deputy Mayor and as Parliamentarian in a number of cases directly co-operated with the Office of the Ombudsman for Children and Mrs Jelavic, that these experiences are excellent and that Mrs Jelavic did this work highly professionally and highly professionally. Since it is already such a situation that the Assembly does not actually choose but by its decision confirms or rejects the proposal, it is clear that after 8 years of running the Advocate's Office or carrying out the duties of the Ombudsman for children, this will be done in the future by a new person and thus gives the opportunity to introduce a new style, to set new priorities, to determine perhaps new communication technology, to determine different directions of public action of this institution in the next 8-year period. I agree, every time he looks for new people, he asks for new energy, he asks for new access, he asks for innovation, but we also know very well that for 8 years here, we have been listening to the prosecutor's reports for children, as well as other lawyers agreeing mainly with their suggestions, and sometimes with very serious calls to improve the system, to change the basic laws they are working on to make it work better, and that as the most legislative body in this regard, we have not particularly engaged. None of these laws have been changed in the last 10 years at the initiative of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague, Kosor, rightly warned that the law on which this case is being dealt with, that is, on the basis of which the Ombudsman has certain anachronisms, has certain solutions which are not sustainable and are not logical and that it should be accessible to the amendments to that law in order to improve and free the system of certain energy that exists, but also to give certain powers to the Ombudsman in this particular case for children, but in other cases, have more direct power, authority and the ability to change things for the better. Let this debate today be a signal to the promoter that the time has come for us to approach this business and to propose to us by the end of this year changes so that we can discuss it in substance. For all of us, especially in the ruling majority, it is our responsibility to respond to these incentives coming from the system, that we need to improve the legal framework, and it is the government's responsibility to follow this need with initial proposals. This is the time to say that in the past 8 years a system has really been built and that a new guardian for children comes into an orderly system in which a high social reputation has been acquired and in which the word of the Ombudsman really means something to children. It is an institution that does not leave behind conflicts, scandals, conflicts, but leaves a proactive and constructive approach. In this context, hope that the system will continue to be improved. Ms. Mili Jelavić should thank you for everything she has done in the past eight years, that the Ombudsman's office or the Ombudsman's Office will be and become a recognizable actor in the process of protecting and promoting children's rights, to thank her for the system that she has developed by developing and regional centres and to say thank you for that and wish her much happiness at work, in the ministry directly responsible for the social care she returns to her contract as far as I know. And I hope that there, too, the ministry will continue to make its concrete contribution and help to make state policy, public policy towards children only in future development and promotion. And to the new lawyer we're going to vote on on Friday we want a lot of success in the work and we want her to be even more recognizable than her predecessor and to leave behind a new practice in which children's defenders will be much more binding than it has ever been in accordance with the imperfect legal framework. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75727	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He is the first respected representative of Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75728	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleague Beus-Richembergh. We've been listening to this slowly exhibit of yours that you've tried to explain everything that the proposer proposes, so I suggest and in terms of saying changes to the attorney for the children. You first talked about it being, but very briefly you said a publicly known person. Therefore, the publicly known person is therefore a person known to a wider circle of people of the Republic of Croatia. I can't appreciate anyone's public knowledge. I don't know what you appreciate public knowledge for, except maybe because your coalition partner and you've estimated that the new, new attorney-general is a public celebrity or known to you and your circle. Secondly, for the former, let's say as of Friday, the Ombudsman of the Government of the Republic of Croatia gave a positive assessment of her work every year on the public defender's reports. Therefore, this Croatian Parliament also gave after the government's opinion and the Croatian Parliament gave a unanimously almost positive opinion, not almost but unanimously. And a third. Speaking of the role of attorney for children, what can I say new to children's rights in relation to the rights of new children? It's just like saying that maybe a new geography teacher will bring up some new data on that, a geography is a geography. There are Atlantic, Pacific and Indian oceans that will always be so. And there are continents, and I don't know what you want from your geography, either. Therefore, the laws and newspapers are not adopted by the lawyer herself. But this is done, the laws are passed by the Croatian Parliament, and the lawyer is based on the law and based on the decisions of the Croatian Parliament and on what the Croatian Parliament is doing, excuse the Ombudsman for children. Not public, but attorneys for the kids. So I think it's just a human cruise and nothing more and it's ruling.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75729	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative Beus-Richembergh will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75730	My friend Grubisic, I have the impression that you didn't listen to what I was saying or you were out there, so you walked in last minute or what this is about. You're replicating me for something I haven't said at all. So it has nothing to do with what happened here that I explained the motion. Well, that's the government's job. I've been commenting on that. And on the other hand, when you rhetorically wonder what new counsel can bring, that's a question that we need to ask ourselves. First, let's see if we can create a better, more efficient framework in which the child's attorney works at all. Can we give her tools that will be more effective, faster, consistent in implementing our recommendations? It is definitely clear and precisely from the annual reports that we have discussed here and established that there is a whole series of imperfections in the system, even as many shortcomings for which the Ombudsman has been alerting and praying for years to be removed. So it's up to us to remove them and allow the new attorney general to bring something potentially new. I said what could be expected definitely, different communication, different styles and everything that relates to a person as a person regardless of what profession it was. But here we are, too, on the move, and that is why I also invited the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose by the end of this year amendments to the Law on the Defence of the Children so that we can discuss it in a quality way, and to adopt and facilitate the quality of the work of the institution, i.e. the institution that we are talking about here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75731	Thank you very much. We have another replica of Gordana Sobol's respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75732	Thank you. So here's my colleague Beus, getting along a lot with what you said in your debate. I'd just like to make one more correction in fact. Not for the past eight years, for the past 12 years, so we named my first child counsel in 2002 right after we passed that law. So, and it's one twelve-year-old in fact history of the attorney general's office for children. And I will rely on it when Mila Jelavic was appointed who heard and knew who Mila Jelavic except knew that she was working as head of the ministry sector, in the department, in a department at the Ministry of Social Policy or whatever it was then called. So why do I say that? Because I think we need to open up space and some other people who aren't just public, celebrities. Because in this country, in certain areas of Croatia, I would say we don't have exactly what it would say about the dispersal of people who have really become famous long-term employees in certain areas, etc. Or we have them, of course we have them, but they're already somewhere else, something else occupied, somewhere else busy. So this is what I consider a certain positive. And in the part where it's said about what else can be done in the area of children's rights, isn't it all done? No, it's not. Because the area of human rights, the rights of women, the area of persons with disabilities, children's rights, is therefore an area of change. So only when we look at some things that we didn't even know 20 years ago that we were going to discuss and we're going to install them into some laws and today we have them and today they're part of the report and our defense attorneys. And I agree that in part of the law, but not just the attorneys for the children, but for me and the other attorneys should make some innovations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75733	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative Beus Richembergh will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75734	Fellow Sobol is not difficult to agree with your comment. I'll start at the end. So, the fact is that children's rights are fully protected and that the system is functioning immaculately we wouldn't have an institution as attorney for children at all. So it's number one. Under number two, there is no perfect society that can say that the system of protection and promotion of human rights is general, and then especially children such that it does not need any improvement. It simply does not exist or will unfortunately exist in view of all our knowledge of society. But it's also true what you said, yes, Mrs. Jelavic when she was appointed eight years ago didn't come to anything. Ms. Matijević Vrsaljko was a lawyer before her. So she started from something, started from an office, but she developed it and improved it over the past eight years. So when you compare that system to what was when she found it, that's two different things. From public visibility if you want to, on the one hand, intensive communication to the non-governmental sector which deals with children and thirdly to the functioning of the body itself through regional offices or greater availability of services conditionally stated by the Ombudsman to all those whose rights are denied or who do not know how to deal with them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75735	Thank you very much. That's what we'd end up with, so I'm finalizing a debate on this proposal. Of course, it will be voted upon when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75736	Proposal for a decision on the discharge of the Ombudsman for children and the Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of a Ombudsman for children. The debate on proposals is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of the Ombudsman for children. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? What's the score? I find that most of the votes, 80 votes in favour, 14 against and 7 abstentions, have been decided on the resolution of the Ombudsman for children in the text as proposed by the applicant. I am voting on a proposal for a decision to appoint a lawyer for the children. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? Yeah. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes have been decided by 80 votes in favour of, 13 against and 8 abstentions on the appointment of a prosecutor for children, as proposed by the Proposer. Can we access the oath? We can. We'll join the oath of a respected newly elected guardian for the children. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Law on the Ombudsman for children of the Ombudsman for children before taking office gives an oath before the Croatian Parliament. The oath shall be given in a way that the President shall read the text of the oath, and thereafter, when the Ombudsman is called up and pronounced by the oath. The text of the oath reads: "I swear that in my work I will stick to the Constitution and the law, respect the legal order of the Republic of Croatia and that I will carry out my duty in a fair, honorable and conscientious and impartial manner in the best interests of children." Advocate for Children Ivana Milas Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75737	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75738	Congratulations. . I wish you success in your work, mostly for the sake of children, but also for ourselves. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75739	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75740	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75741	We said that we would have another debate about one bill and that is - The final bill on amendments and the addition of the Law on materials and objects that come in direct contact with food, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 632; The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure combines this emergency procedure with the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received their reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Here you are, Your Honor. Marian Cesarik Deputy Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75742	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Therefore, the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on materials and articles coming into direct contact with food are aligned with the names of the EU regulation with the names of the regulations published in the official EU list as well as a more detailed definition of the tasks of the competent authority. The implementation of the EU Commission Regulation should be ensured through this law. 284/2011. of 22 March 2011 laying down specific conditions and detailed procedures for the import of plastic kitchen products of polyamides and melamines originating in or delivered from the People's Republic of China and the special administrative area of Hong Kong. The customs supervision shall be preceded by an official inspection inspector at the border to review the consignment and shall determine whether the importer has duly completed the declaration set out in the Annex to the EU Regulation. 284/2011. and possibly taking samples. Afterwards, customs authorities shall authorise the release of the consignment into free circulation. Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 298, 30.12.2013, p. 1). 284/2011. obliges Member States to submit a 3-month import information report to the It is therefore necessary to keep records of the free release of plastic kitchen products on the market of the Republic of Croatia both by customs authorities and by border sanitary inspectors to ensure a double check, i.e. double check, with a view to collecting accurate data for the submission of the Commission's report. The amendment provides for another infringement provision relating to the non-reportation of the activity of imports, production and distribution of materials and objects that come into direct contact with food for legal and natural persons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75743	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? I don't think so, so I'll open the hearing. Three clubs called to discuss it. The first on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club will be the guest of honour Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75744	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We in the SDP agree with these amendments and additions to the law, the matter is quite simple, we complement the law in a way that customs controls precede control, official control of the sanitary inspection or sanitary inspector. On the one hand, we regret that we did not put this into law immediately, but on the other hand, it is good for such laws that bring very often implementation and a rather complicated European directive to follow the application and actually react very quickly, so that in this sense our support. It is particularly important to note that this specifically refers to imports of plastic kitchen products made of polyamides and melamines or originating or delivered from China or Hong Kong sounds a little exotic, but it is indeed a product of wide-ranging consumption that exists in every household of us or in every household in Croatia. What shows the newer time is that food security, we talked about it a little yesterday about consumer protection but food safety, the safety of materials and objects that come into contact with food over time, stronger globalisation, the development of technology. On the other hand, the demand for greater profits for people and the reduction of the world in some way becomes more and more important and all the importance of controlling ourselves, as well as educating us as consumers about what it is that we eat, what the packaging of food we use is increasingly and more obtained from the importance and laws of this type, the procedures that are being carried out in import, the procedure doing sanitary inspection, the EU directive seems to come more or less on a daily basis as an extremely important political topic, but indeed an issue important to the everyday life of each of us. What's this about, and why did I actually get to talk about it on behalf of the club? Some of these plastic dishes are now that I fully simplify it that will pass the authorisation of the sanitary inspection or will get a health check, are not in any case we use in everyday life actually medically acceptable. Many of these plastic masses and polymers, I apologize for the inaccuracies, I'm not a chemist to know how to speak exact terms, but I know enough that something called colloquial bpa short-term bisphenola, dioxins, phthalates and other compounds are actually an integral part of many plastic products that we have in our houses, which will get permission of sanitary inspections at imports before customs themselves because they are not really themselves to say so, they are not harmful. However, if we keep food in such a vessel and put it in a microwave to heat it up then it becomes dangerous and is actually a problem, and therefore I stress the need on one side of the education of consumers and citizens when using plastic dishes especially in the sense that these plastic containers come into contact with the sources of heat of the primary microwave oven and dishwasher. I know it seems banal, but it's really about the things that each of us uses every day. BPA is therefore bisphenol and is dangerous for children and is prohibited by the EU directive in those children's vials. But it's allowed in the packaging for drinks and food used by adults. I think it's a matter of time actually when BPA will be banned and in this plastic that we use as adults, too, because I have to admit it a little bit is illogical that what, for example, breast-feeding or pregnant women can communicate tomorrow will not be able to have a child through baby food. But the team is more stressed by the need to educate consumers but also by Mr. Deputy, perhaps even thinking and the directive on making such plastic kitchenware contained in all these things more clearly. We are therefore many and the current directives mean marks on plastic containers, 5 hdp, pec, ide, app, ps, this average informed consumer does not know what it means. The triangle in which it says number 1, 21, 52, 57, these are otherwise alternatives for these markings, the average consumer simply doesn't know what it means. We're going to introduce a product from the example of the Republic of China, it's going to pass the sanitary inspection, it's going to have a valid sign that it has, say, bisphenol and none of us are actually going to know it and it won't know the danger. That the danger is not a banal evidence of research because, namely, bisphenol and therefore BPA is confirmed to be associated with liver damage, obesity, diabetes, infertility and several types of cancer. So it's very good that we're changing the law, adding sanitary control in front of customs. However, I fear that this is not enough or that time will show that it is necessary to do much more on the right and on average informed consumer, clear labelling of such products, clear risk education and correct use of dishes. I'm not for banning, we've really made a lot of plastic dishes easier, it's made transport easier, it's costing transport, it's also costing the product, it's made a lot of things more accessible, and so it's not a problem at all, but I repeat in some circumstances that every day they can be extremely dangerous, and then there's not enough to raise..., so a system of rapid alarming when we realize that there's something really trouble, but it's really a need for permanent education, consumer and the need for really clear labelling that we know what we're using. Of course, then each of us is aware of whether or not to use something but in order to make a conscious and informed decision, we must also have full information. There's so much about it. Once again in the end, we support the real adoption of this law. We hope that the sanitary inspections will work here in cooperation with customs. This topic and the topic of food security in this combination of customs and sanitary inspections will be more and more obtained on the meaning, have more and more work to do and even say political work, that is something to support, should work on visibility, but I especially stress on the education itself where we expect the actions of all those who are responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75745	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Igor Coleman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75746	I thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Lugarić, you mentioned the examples of washing machines and microwaves and then you said that it might sound banal, no, it doesn't even sound banal, and especially not banal, it's the key, it seems to me the whole story, especially in cases with children's dishes because we all know that shops are full of plastic plates, cups, cups, forks, spoons that are in all possible characters from cartoons, fairy tales, stories, it's acceptable to children, and it's very often for various reasons more acceptable to give children such plastic dishes instead of ceramic porcelain or what is otherwise used, so it's not banal, it's actually the key to the whole story, and it's precisely those materials that are potentially dangerous to be released from temperature changes, so in the situations you were just talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75747	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Marija Lugaric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75748	... Thank you for reminding me of this children's print, and there is a particular problem even color. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] There is a particular color problem, which then, does not touch the temperature itself, but indeed shows the example that in fact very often we as consumers go to that line of less resistance, of course it is much simpler. We are as consumers more comfortable under such circumstances, but then the team appears more of a need for awareness of what we actually consume, or indirectly consume through the actual evaporation of these chemical substances when they come into contact with a particular type of food. For example, sour foods here are particularly dangerous, etc., so that we don't have any longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75749	Thank you very much. The next speaker will be on behalf of the club of representatives of the HNS, Honorary Representative Igor Coleman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75750	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, Deputy Minister Cesarik. We discussed this law in February, it seems to me, in 2013, and it's actually a very interesting law, and I was also speaking for the club on behalf of that law. That law is interesting because on the one hand it shows the complexity of that implementation and I think you were, not to think, but you were also at the debate. This law shows on the one hand the complexity of implementing European rules in domestic legislation, and on the other hand the complexity of this issue that we are discussing today, which is that the materials that can be used, especially in food consumption and storage situations. This law, if you remember, defines how packaging and accessories are produced, how quality is controlled, what are active materials, what are intelligent materials, etc., how is recycled, so all that is really important for any packaging, any food and drink consumption kits and these changes and additions, so there are several, but the key is to this sanitary inspection that must give its green light before the goods are painted. Plastic and kitchen products and this is what Lugarić spoke of perfectly, so that I will significantly shorten my debate by respecting your time, but just to point out, therefore really plastic kitchen products are not a game, it is potentially a very dangerous source of harmful substances, poisons, the most diverse species, especially in situations, we have discussed before, so in freezing situations, and especially heating, changing temperatures, it can be a really great risk to health, especially because such dishes are often used for the youngest who are most sensitive in that sense, and we find this solution better than we have so far. I agree with my colleague Lugarić that it will probably not be enough and that we will have to take further steps in the future, but really not take more than absolutely necessary, HNS supports this proposal and the situation should continue to follow in any case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75751	Thank you very much. The next word will be taken on behalf of the HDSSB's Club of Representatives by Honorable Representative Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75752	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Deputy Minister. Here, today when I was passing through the square I saw that today is World Day without Meat or something, although in Croatia many celebrate it all year round almost, but good. It's about, or marking it all year round, so we're marked. It is a law, very important or very important for amendments to and additions to the Law on materials and articles that come into direct contact with food, with the final proposal of the law, and the basis of EU Regulation No 284 since 2011 in connection with the official control of the sanitary inspector at the border to review the shipment of plastic, kitchen products, i.e. to determine whether the importer of the consignment of plastic, kitchen products has completed the declaration set out in the Annex to the Regulation and has delivered it within the prescribed time limit to the competent sanitary inspector at the border. It is only after that that customs duty can be carried out. But what my predecessors were talking about from SDP and HNS is actually importing kitchen products, i.e. products that come into contact with food, from China and Hong Kong, and because of, clearly, preventing the danger of happening as with some children's toys that we've already had the opportunity to read about and watch in our media that have therefore been banned toys that have flooded the world's market with huge quantities. And when I say that, since I'm in a situation like this to watch kids say when they're young, they use various plastic objects that are some kind of imitation of some kind of hard object that should help them get their teeth in a easier way, and then they're pummeling their right hands to make it easier for them. In this context, it is clear that there is a need to keep in mind, and they are also bought in the markets of the composition of such a plastic, I will not say toys, but it would be helpful in that case. The colleague has well numbered all these substances that are found and can be found, and here are the abbreviations listed BFDGE etc. in these substances, and in this law it is primarily about the release of primary aromatic amines and formaldehydes. We know, in particular, who are medics, which means formaldehyde and its later compounds that come into contact with water, etc. Well then in contact with the temperature change, we know how these colors are produced, we know about the anilinic colors of a lot of things that as a cause of bladder cancer by acting badly on the clock of the tract, so the tract of urine secretion from the kidneys and through the bladders to all the other organs. And what to say except that this law is consistent with normal and improved I would say, and based on what we said yesterday to the Consumer Protection Act, this time on consumer protection against such toxic compounds that can be found unless there are rigorous measures of sanitary inspection. Some producers who, by means of an importer in the Republic of Croatia, bring their material exclusively for use in food use testing or treating their products at the Royal Institute in London, will not speak the name of the company in order not to advertise anyone here. And as such, these products come to our market completely secure, but the price of these plastic products from these materials that says here in this law of polyamide and melamine have been tested at the Royal Institute in London, and their price is much more expensive and much higher. In view of the state of citizenship, its material position so clearly that citizens buy much more what is cheaper, and it is quite certain, as Comrade Lugarić said, there is more opportunity to say in some way to fly in or spring some kind of plastic kitchen products that are then not prescribed and release these harmful compounds by human health. Unfortunately here we can't all buy that so-called. the vessels tested at the Royal Institute in London and which is quite safe but at least to make it impossible to make such legislation impossible or to minimise the level of imports of such products into the Republic of Croatia, and in fact this would be said in some ways also in a section of the Consumer Protection Act. Yesterday we said we'd support that law as we'd back this one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75753	Thank you very much. Since no one has applied further for the discussion then we will conclude the debate on the text of this law, and we will vote when the conditions are met. That would end our work for today. Tomorrow we will begin at 9.30 p.m. with a report on free zones for 2011 and 2012. Thank you very much. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-20-0.u75754	The final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on materials and articles that come into direct contact with food is an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 632. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please raise your hand to plead who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? What's the score? I find that, unanimously with 101 votes, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Materials and Objects comes in direct contact with food in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
