ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85540	Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, I am opening the 14th session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Zoran Milanovic, Vice-President, Vice-President and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This session begins with a regular session of the Croatian Parliament, which, according to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, begins on 15 September and ends on 15 December. I invite you to pay our respects at the beginning of the session to the homeland by performing the "Beautiful Our Homeland" anthem. - The performance of "Beautiful Our Homeland" – colleagues and colleagues, presidents and members of the Government I invite you to pay tribute to Croatian defenders, all civilian victims of war and all fallen for Croatia for a minute of silence. - A minute of silence. - May they have eternal thanks and glory. My colleagues and colleagues, the minutes of the 13th session of the Croatian Parliament were received at the session. I'm asking if there's any comments on the record. If not, we have adopted the minutes from the 13th session of the Croatian Parliament in the proposed text. And now we're moving on to the agenda. With the invitation to the session, you received a draft agenda, and at the session you were given the final proposal for daily work. The final draft agenda includes 10 new points, which are: 1. Proposal for a half-year report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2014 and a proposal for a half-yearly report on the application of fiscal rules for the first half of 2014. 1. Proposal for a Law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding on the implementation of the Norwegian Financial Mechanism for the period 2009-2014 between the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Norway, with the Final Proposal for the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 704, 1. Proposal for a Act confirming the Memorandum of Understanding on the implementation of the EEA Financial Mechanism for the period 2009-2014 between the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Norway, Iceland and the Principality of Liechtenstein, with the final proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 703, 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 702, 1. Proposal for a Industrial Strategy of the Republic of Croatia 2014-20. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85541	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, I apologize, but we don't have that supplement you're reading on the benches, which is common and to get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85542	The materials came to your benches. ... Look. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] According to professional service information, you were given to clubs, i.e. about in boxes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85543	Madam Vice President, it's common for her to complete her day-to-day counsel to wait on the benches. If the rules change, then you should inform the clubs that we can lift that supplement and that's it. They're always complemented, always complemented by MPs waiting on benches.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85544	This is the final draft agenda that is on your benches and relative to the agenda that has been called on this is 10 new points and they are in the final proposal. So six. Proposal for a National Health Council. 7. (a) Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member of the National Council for Human Resources Development; (b) Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the National Council for Human Resources Development; 8. Report on regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority; 9. Work report for 2013 of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data; 10. Final report on jobs and funds spent on the census, households and apartments in the Republic of Croatia in 2011. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. I note that the urgency of the procedure for the adoption of the Act bearing the P.Z.E. marking. we shall not decide in accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament that is the law under point 29. Final bill. In order to adopt an emergency procedure, the laws on agenda items 15, 16, 18, 25, 27 and 28 have been proposed. These are: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the Final Proposal for the Law, the emergency procedure first and second reading, P.Z. No. 700. 2. Proposal for a Law on the Power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain questions from the Croatian Parliament's section with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure first and second reading, P.Z. 699. 3. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the City of Zagreb, with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 701. 4. Proposal for a Law confirming the Taxation of Income Taxation Agreement from Guernsey and the Republic of Croatia, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 696. 5. Proposal for a Law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding on the implementation of the Norwegian Financial Mechanism for the period 2009 to 2014 between the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Norway with the final proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 704. Six. Proposal for a Law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding on the implementation of the EEA Financial Mechanism for the period 2009 to 2014 between the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Norway, Iceland and the Principality of Liechtenstein, with the Final Proposal for the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 703. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed laws? There isn't. That's how we determine the urgency of the procedure. There were no objections to the draft agenda sent by the president with the call for the sitting and this agenda was in accordance with Article 225(3) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure are considered adopted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure may now be submitted only to those points which did not contain the draft agenda with a call for a session. Any of the representatives object to the inclusion in the agenda of the following points: 1. Proposal for a half-year report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2014 and the proposal for a half-yearly report on the application of fiscal rules for the first half of 2014; 2. Proposal for a Industrial Strategy of the Republic of Croatia 2014-2020; 3. Proposal for a National Health Council; 4. Proposal for a decision on the resolution of a member of the National Council for the Development of Human Potentials and a proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the National Council for the Development of Human Resources; 5. Report on regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority; 6. Work report for 2013 of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data; 7. Final report on the jobs and resources spent on the census, households and apartments in the Republic of Croatia in 2011? I find there are no objections. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda has been determined. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure should now publish a set agenda. I propose, as is the practice in Parliament, that I do not read fully the proposed agenda. A fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85545	Madam Vice President, when are we going to get these points listed in order in the agenda that we know when they'll be at the debate. Because we put them in today, we don't know when they'll be in the debate. We have this agenda the way it is, since we haven't gotten on benches to supplement the agenda which has been a practice in this House since this Parliament is in session.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85546	Comrade Shuker, you have an uncleaned agenda on your benches, so you have a final agenda on the benches. Today we're going to do the first four points, look at the final draft agenda. Today we will do the first four points, tomorrow from 5th to 11th and Friday 12th and 13th agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85547	Thank you. Now we're going to stop this debate a little bit so that we can discuss how we agreed to supplement the agenda and vote on the debated points. So on the basis of Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I propose an addition of the agenda to the following points. 1. Proposal for a Energy Efficiency Act with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 708. 2. Final proposal of the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 667. 3. Final draft law on areas and national courts, second reading, P.Z. No. 668. 4. Proposal for a bill to confirm the memorandum of agreement on the institutional framework of the preparedness and prevention initiative for disasters for Southeast Europe with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 709. 5. Proposal for a law on the confirmation of a contract between the Government of the Republic of Albania and the Council of Ministers on a European partnership with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 712. Six. Proposal for a law on the confirmation of contracts between the Republic of Croatia and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax and property tax with a final bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 711. Seven. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Election of Presidents of the Republic of Croatia with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 710. Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, first reading, P.Z. No. 705. Proposers of representatives Jadranka Kosor, Josip Kregar and Iron Srecko Flego. Nine. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political activities of election promotion, first reading, P.Z. No. 706. Proposers of representatives Jadranka Kosor, Josip Kregar and Iron Srecko Flego. Ten. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Election Commission, first reading, P.Z. No. 707. Proposers of representatives Jadranka Kosor, Josip Kregar and Iron Srecko Flego. 11. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of the Deputy Attorney General. 12. Report on the implementation of the national strategy and action plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2013. 13. Proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and a political system concerning requests for a national referendum on the adoption of a Law on the pursuit of accompanying and non-basic activities in the public sector. 14. Immunity commission's report. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. I note that the urgency of the procedure for the adoption of laws bearing the P.Z.E. marking. we shall not decide in accordance with Article 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, and this is the law under point 1, of the proposal to supplement the agenda. I ask, do any of the MPs and advocates have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the other proposed laws? Dear Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85548	Mr. Vice President, I must admit that the proposal to supplement the agenda is a big surprise for us, and I believe for the party that proposed the law under point 7. In fact, if we live in the same country and have the same deadlines, then we're all aware that presidential elections start in three months. Today, to put someone in mind in an emergency procedure to offer to Parliament a law amending electoral legislation 3 months before the elections is a shame that we will not allow ourselves, and I think it would be wise for you to have this proposal in accordance with all democratic standards, not to mention them again, that I do not speak of them, and while you have been in opposition for many years, you have often highlighted the opinion and recommendations of the Venice Commission which suggests that in the year in which elections will be held you do not change electoral legislation, you are now 3 months probably because of the anxiety that the government in the president's office offers amendments to election law for the election of the President of the Republic. It's a shameful suggestion, and it might be wise to withdraw it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85549	I ask, dear colleague Mlakar, is this a formal objection to the urgency of the procedure? Yeah. Okay. And don't you point that out. So we're going to vote now on the urgency of the procedure for this proposed agenda. We'll do it by electronic means. I'm asking all of you now to determine the quorum in a way that under your cards you have these three shooters, green, white and red, buttons. Press any one of them to determine how many of us we are. Now all three of you are flashing. Okay. I'm asking for a result. We have a total of 116 MPs present, so we have a quorum and we can decide. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Comrade Cain, be so kind as to let me run the session. We will now vote on the urgency of the procedure for the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Election of Presidents of the Republic of Croatia, that is P.Z. No. 710, is proposed by the SDP Representatives Club. I'm asking who's in charge of the emergency procedure? I'm asking for a result. The vote was 80 pardons, against 35 and abstentions 8. Any of the MPs object to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed points? If it isn't then, ladies and gentlemen, the agenda has been completed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85620	My colleagues and colleagues, we begin by asking questions to the Government, or to an individual member, in accordance with the provisions of Rules of Procedure 132 to 139. The current morning shall be held at the beginning of each session before the first item of the agenda. We move on to asking questions according to a set order. A colleague of Mile Horvat will question Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85621	Thank you. First of all, I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, all the Ministers and Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and, as you said, I will refer my question to Mr Bauk, Minister of Administration. For years, we have been trying to create a model, and it is known to Mr. Minister, a model for solving the problem of living care of people who have been waiting for this thing for 10 years and more. We have already formed the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing, we have provided some funds in the budget, and we have transferred these cases from 2013 to the competent offices of the state administration by county, and there is a problem here, Mr. Minister. Why? The data suggests that out of the nearly 5,000 outstanding demands of former tenant rights holders, they have been resolved all the way to 270 today. Only 135 were issued on the 2014 list of 837 solutions. Out of 61 requests from users who are still in organised accommodation to date only 17 items have been solved. And finally, about 1,300 renewal applications are still pending, and that's all in state administration offices around the county. The question here is very simple, as the Minister of the Administration of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Arsen Bauk thinks, in order to bring the solutions to the administrative procedure within the deadline, and all in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act, so that we finally care about the impunity of our state administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85622	Minister Arsen Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85623	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, the offices of the state administration as you probably know are not part of the ministry, but are independent state bodies and them in this section that you said oversees the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing, and that would be the right address to ask this question. Since this is not possible in the Rules of Procedure, because the representatives of the state offices are not on the current clock, then I understand that you have asked me a question. The question you have asked, and it is not in my area, will be answered in writing, and if there is a need, from what you have said clearly exists, in order to resolve the requirements in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act, inspection surveillance will be carried out where it is most necessary and to see what measures will be taken further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85624	A colleague of Mile Horvat, commentary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85625	So I thank you for your response, Mr. Minister, but the fact is that precisely because of these changes in jurisdiction, we have led to a situation in which these cases are resolved and located. And the State Department of Housing cannot act unless it receives those first-degree solutions from the county offices and in any case you, as Minister of Administration, should take these certain steps and controls and penalties, if it is necessary to sanction that kind of impunity and non-compliance with the legal deadlines. And if you don't, and I think you will, then it would be a disappointment to us and only proof of how little this problem we've been talking about for years. I'm asking you a written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85626	Now the question will be asked by colleague Igor Chesek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85627	I thank the esteemed vice president. I refer my question to the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Tihomir Jakovina. Dear Minister, what you have done in almost three years of your term of office to help Croatian agriculture, which thanks to you is in extremely difficult condition. At the beginning of the term of office, you promised agrarian reform and fair availability to state land, talking about how the Republic of Croatia has almost a million hectares of unprocessed land. What about that land? During 2012, during the drought, you talked about major irrigation projects. We don't see any of these projects today. You also boasted about our Croatian direct payment model for which up to 7,000 kuna per hectare would be paid for fruit and vegetables. What happened to all those promises? Please respond because agricultural producers, especially those from Slavonia and Baranja, look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85628	Answer the question, Minister Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85629	Thank you, esteemed colleague. Great question for the actor, but I have to say I don't agree with all the grades that are partly pausal and populist even that you've brought out because let me try to answer the most of your questions in the last few minutes. You come from Slavonia and you know best how the state agricultural land was held between 2001 and 2012 and how little land was put into service. 4th month 2013 passed a new law and a new model, which is available through a long 50-year lease with state agricultural land. The fact is, in fact, in 20 and a few years, we haven't even established how much state agricultural land we have, it bid on different numbers. It was about 550,000 acres in the ministry. The Institute of Statistics had data about 700, even at some scientific and professional meetings discussed the same topic with different numbers of agricultural land. A few weeks ago, we presented a new information system in which we united and accurately defined state agricultural land. We're talking about 738125 ha of state agricultural land that's categorized both by county and by purpose so we can say that we have 399000 ha of pasture, that we have 262000 orans. We also know by the means of availability and by the old law, by models what is given, but also by what the agency is doing now. In 2012 according to the new law was put into office around the leases about 1000 ha and was arranged over 52000 ha on temporary use where our agricultural producers are on... different undefined forms in which they could neither achieve support, work, process this agricultural land. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 2014 so far, 11000 ha have been put into operation by rent for 50 years. 2000 ha is sold, whether we are talking about a rounding system for those small plots or in competitions from previous years and is currently scheduled to select the most favourable bidders for 20000 ha. By the end of the year, competitions have been prepared and by the end of this year another 50,000 ha will be put into office. It's not the only thing about agricultural land. About the land reform we have said and prepared and in this House of Commons will be in the next week, I mean next week and the Law of Cooperation. Since the 1980s there has been no membership in the Republic of Croatia given the average size of agricultural property in Croatia of 5.6 ha. In a large number of smaller parcels, I think it's a necessary law and it's actually a package of land reform. You also mentioned direct support for the 14th programming period. Fourteen years is a programming year. In time, we have created a new system of support according to which our farmers will be able to have 13% of the total envelope of 423 million euros for production in 2014, and it is related to those sectors that are most exposed to us, which are most needed, have the greatest possibility of creating added value. That's what we're talking about, we're talking about vegetables, we're talking about the dairy sector, we're talking about turnip beef and sugar turnip production. Also, the Rural Development Programme, which includes 16 measures with a series of sub-measures, 333m euros per year, sent to the Commission by the end of this month, although formally not only us but also other EU countries are not approved by the Rural Development Programme, but at the end of this month we call the first competitions under the new Rural Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85630	Commentary, colleague Igor Češek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85631	Dear Ministers, of course I am not satisfied with your response but I am convinced that agricultural producers are not satisfied either, especially those of our agricultural producers in Slavonia and Baranja. Because we see that these three years you've been systematically telling the truth. The situation in agriculture is getting harder, almost unsustainable. You lied at the beginning of your term when you promised agrarian reform, because we see that only 1% of the land is available. In 2012, you almost swore that you would put all efforts into irrigation projects to allow a reduction of as much as 400 million kunas in cold blood during the rebalancing of the state budget, 200 million kunas less for irrigation. Finally, I think you are the most responsible that among all EU members, only Croatia has not prepared national measures to protect domestic agricultural producers and markets after the introduction of sanctions between the EU and Russia, and you could have taken these measures legitimately calling for Article 37. Treaty on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU. Since you have done nothing to protect peasants, European surplus fruits and vegetables will irrevocably destroy Croatian and fruit trees and vegetables, which will result in almost an exodus of the population from already evicted Slavonia and Baranja. Are you aware that, thanks to you and your government, the Republic of Croatia is determined to go to the abyss, and I ask you on behalf of all those farmers, dissatisfied farmers, to step down from this place with honor until it is too late.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85632	The third question will be asked by counterpart Nevenka Becic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85633	Thank you very much. I welcome all present, and I have a question for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Inviolability of ownership is one of the fundamental principles of the constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Croatia and respecting this principle as well as the fact that the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia ratified the Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms in 1997, and respecting Article 1. Protocol I of the Convention on the Protection of Property and which explicitly prescribes that it must be possible for every legal and natural person to freely enjoy his own property to ask the question of how and what the Government of the Republic of Croatia is doing and taking to stop human rights violations of around 3000 of our citizens, the owners of private dwellings in whom, by means of a decision by the communist authorities, private tenants are protected, and which has been qualified by the European Court of Human Rights in their judgments as quasi contracts and legally invalid contracts based on those dwellings. And how the Government of the Republic of Croatia is thinking of resuscitating the situation and depriving the owners for a period from the date of ratification of the Convention until the time when they will be able to enter their property, noting that the Government adopted a work plan in December 2013 where it envisaged and planned to put the first quarter into the agenda of the Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Rent of Apartments, which has not been made so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85634	Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic will answer the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85635	Your Honor, Madam Representative, that's one look at the problem. Another view of the problem is protected loans from thousands who believe that they have been abolished from hundreds of thousands of tenants who have had the opportunity to buy out apartments that the state has given them as social property. Which just says that each problem has two views and that it is difficult to cut, because that would be easy for Croatian authorities to do so earlier than the Croatian state's draft. So it's not simple. I am, and we are, not daily but regularly busy with the demands of this other party to conditionally express myself, which is considered to have been cut off and discriminated against by a large number of Croatian citizens, many of them are also in this House regardless of the political option, which they bought out of social housing. What do you want to do? We're slowly looking for a solution. That's the answer I can give you, but it won't satisfy you. Property is protected. When you say uninjurious, yes, it is a very important right that in liberal democracies is very thoroughly protected but not absolutely and not absolutely uninjured. We're looking for a solution, and we won't be able to find it soon. Both sides are dissatisfied at this point. One because they believe that they lived in good faith, worked and acted for 40 years or how many years, and others, in part, with the right to have something legally acquired before World War II taken away by one political act and not returned to others. Under the Law on the return of property seized during the Yugoslav communist rule. But that's one I'd say the last swamp glove we were supposed to dry, and that's not over yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85636	Commentary, colleague Becic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85637	Thank you very much. I'm not entirely satisfied with the answer. Namely, in your answer there were several, I apologize, untrue. Namely, these private property owners were never taken away, neither was confiscation nor nationalization taken away. In continuity, it's their property, number one. Under number two, I agree with you when you say that you are in an unfavourable position and protected tenants. But I remind you that the 1991 and 1992 Law on Buying Social Apartments clearly and explicitly prescribed that 90% of the funds collected from the purchase of social housing will be used exclusively for the purchase of apartments for the purpose of moving tenants protected from private apartments. That didn't happen. Why? I'm asking a question and I'm asking you to give me a written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85638	Thank you. My colleague Ivana Posavec Krivec, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85639	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I refer my question to Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. The Honorable Prime Minister in May this year, Croatia unfortunately suffered a massive flood, mostly in the County of Posavina but also in Požega-slavonska, Brod-Posavia and Sisak-Moslavina County. The fact is that the state then reacted quickly and effectively, that all forces were engaged, people were taken care of and the damages were resolved at the cost of the state. Moreover, the government adopted a series of measures in July to assist entrepreneurs in the area, Croatian defenders, students and students. It continues to provide accommodation for people with no roof over their heads, and cultural facilities, schools and roads are being renovated through government measures. Anything else that the flood has destroyed and that needs to be restored to its original state. Unfortunately, we are witnessing new floods these days. The hardest is this time in Sisak-Moslavina County, Međimurje, Karlovac and other areas of the Republic of Croatia. This way I would certainly like to thank all the state services, the military, the firemen and all the others who work day and night to ensure that the water that pushes the defense and defend the houses, the settlements, that people from the endangered area are evacuated. And to you, Prime Minister, since you visited the flooded areas of Koprivnica and Sisak yesterday, and the other day, I am also asking in the Karlovac area, will these new floods that hit Croatia require State intervention? How will the government react, or will flood damage be found, to help restore normalisation of life, and can anything be done to reduce or reduce such disasters in the future?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85640	It answers the question of Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85641	Thank you, dear representative Posavec. There's what people and government can do and what they can't stop and what they can't. This water wave of happiness did not result in large floods, as well as the one from the 5th month did not result in floods such as those in BiH and Serbia but in smaller ones, and it would not have been so if it hadn't cracked. And that rash in Raj's Village is the result of the work of people, the money actually by taxpayers, or those who pay compensation, and he fell apart where he shouldn't have. And the answer to that question won't stop looking so quickly and easily. That's why the state in that case has done something that is otherwise not working in Europe. So she's involved directly in helping people rebuild private property, not only the infrastructure of what the state needs, she can, she will and she will and she will and she will now, but personal houses. It didn't make those people happy there, I've convinced myself many times and people are always unhappy with their destiny. Now we're lucky that the water wave didn't repeat that force from the 5th month and that this water didn't come back to Gunja because I wonder what would happen to the embankment that hasn't been rebuilt yet. We'd have to relocate people because the dikes aren't there yet, it's being built. Therefore, it is a warning that such projects must be done very seriously and handled, that there is no joke. And we see that even in countries richer than Croatia, and those in Western Europe, floods take dramatic proportions. So we're with what happened to us and unhappy but still maybe a little less than others. Therefore, the state cannot fully guarantee the restoration of private property every time. This is, as the esteemed colleague said in the previous question, the issue of private ownership which is uninjurious, or protected, but also creates certain obligations because ownership is an obligation. The nobles are bound by the covenant, even though the smallest of nobility, they are bound by it. So houses should be built where they are intended to be built in the way they should be built. Not every site for every type of construction, there is an important role of the units of local self-government and county and they can contribute more there, so in normal times when there are no floods and so we will all be together the next disaster, which will surely come one day, more readily welcome. And I'm appealing to people, and I know it sounds maybe pretentious now, let them think about securing private property. So it costs something, but in times of trouble, accidents, floods, fires, not to say earthquakes, it provides private property. Have them pick their own insurance, any insurance. The market is developed. In Gunja's example, we've seen that very few people have secured their property and then the state has an awkward situation, and now I'm talking about it for the first time. We gave people money to rebuild their houses or completely rebuild their houses, not our own, but theirs, our money. However, it turns out that those who paid the insurance premium have been punished. So they almost didn't get paid for that insurance premium. I appeal, people, let's secure the property, the cheapest shelf, the cheapest shelf.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85642	There's no comment. Col. Ivan Šimunović, fifth question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85643	Thank you, Madam Vice President. In light of the latest developments that are said by President Josipovic, the continuation of a policy that wants to assimilate Croats in Serbia, I would like to ask Prime Minister Milanovic a question. Although it has been reasonably considered and applied a solution to which bilateral problems with... national minorities in two countries... resolve in good faith between the two neighbours, I now believe it is equally justified to take more decisive measures to protect Croatian national minorities on the ground of Serbia. [[Please speak to the microphone. You can't hear it here.]] And the simulation policy that Serbs are openly implementing over Croats living in that country clearly violates the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities of the Council of Europe, and this opens up a space for concrete action for our country. I believe that this issue is only linked to Serbia and the EU's negotiating process because we cannot know how long it will take and what the outcome will be. At this point, it is certain that it is too far for us to predict it, but... we are questioning Croatian national minorities on the ground of Serbia, so this way in front of the Croatian party of law Dr. Ante Starcevic, I ask the government and the Republic of Croatia to take more decisive action and I ask the president, Mr Milanovic, if you should initiate proceedings against Serbia before the Council of Europe for violating the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities and will this government do so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85644	Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic answers the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85645	Dear Mr. Representative, we have, of course, protested, or pointed to the problem that we see, the official diplomatic channels, but there is something else I would like to say. So we have one standard, they're high, they're very high in Croatia, my government and I personally have one policy that's not since yesterday, and I can't guarantee for others, I'm going to push them within the framework of our and my competences and opportunities to comply with those standards because otherwise, EU membership is far away. It is not my main problem, the main problem with relations with Serbia is gone. Over 1,000 missing, whose list we're still waiting for. That's the main problem and the border. And I say it openly, so I'm asking for more goodwill here because if someone has that information, they have the authorities in Serbia, the authorities, the administration that has been continuous for decades and they can't accept that it doesn't exist. As far as the rebels are concerned, it's a national minority that neither you nor I have created. There's 30,000 people out there who think they're Bundes. What do we do? But then we seek equal treatment with Croats who, as far as I know, have not received textbooks from that same authority, are promised. That's what I can intervene in, but I also can't because I've been prime minister for 2.5 years, a little bit more. To change certain processes and certain identities that have sought under various assimilation conditions, it is not a random policy, therefore, but we also cannot say that it is not a fact that 30 thousand people in Vojvodina that we consider Croats, which are Catholic religions, which is a relatively important provision, are not considered Croats but Bunjevites. Whether it's a failure of our government, our government and our state in the last 25 years or it's an older phenomenon, you can conclude for yourself. So we're going to ask the authorities in Serbia to behave the way we behave in the protection of minorities, and we have standards that don't have a large majority of Western European states, and with this it's not easy to live, it's not easy to fight for minority rights in Eastern Slavonia where there's been an angry war 20 years ago, and where it's normal for people who have the irritation to see official inscriptions on the letter of the national minority of another nation, but that's the law, it's the Constitution. There is no compromise, no matter how much interference there is, the thorn in the eye and I can understand it, but there is simply no compromise, otherwise we fall for the test, and the test is – where Croatia is, there are Croatian laws. These are legitimate expectations, whether it's Vukovar or Zagreb, there's no difference. Unfortunately, that's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85646	Commentary, Ivan Simunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85647	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, the fact that Croatia has so far ignored the Croats in Vojvodina does not mean that it should continue with such a policy, especially that Serbia will not stop at this point, and Croats in Serbia can no longer wait forever. Solutions must always be sought first at the negotiating table, but if we are never ready to take more drastic moves, no one will take us seriously and thus weaken our negotiating position. Good neighbourly relations cannot be developed if one side constantly violates the signed agreements and as the current tactics negotiates, there is obviously no... a country that does not adhere to what it has signed voluntarily cannot progress towards EU accession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85648	The 6th question will be asked by counterpart Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85649	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. I'm referring the question to the respected Minister, Mr. Vedran Sailor. According to Article 23 of the Fourth Law on textbooks, textbooks and related supplementary teaching aids must be in use at school for at least 4 years, counting the school year in which they are selected. The same may be changed when it comes to the amendment of the national or the curricula in question, as the following law of the 24th Law on textbooks states. In view of the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia on high unemployment and poor standards of Croatian citizens who bring together the end of the day with severe hardship, do you consider the correct decision of your predecessor to change textbooks despite the fact that those legal provisions do not oblige textbooks to change every 4 years. Also, according to your predecessor, the new textbooks should have been more modern, more spellingly consistent with the new content and should have been removed from obsolescence. But the new textbooks are almost identical to those old textbooks, for example, the policy and economic textbook tells examples of the practices of some local politicians at local level, according to former Sisak-Moslavina Mayor Merzel, former Mayor of Vukovar Mr Sabu, as examples of good practice against which certain criminal proceedings were initiated, but also of the minister of finance that was removed. Given this fact that these examples of good practice are both local and national, do you hold the necessary amendment and addition of this textbook and will you use your legal authority and withdraw it from use? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85650	Answers the question of Minister Vedran Navarre.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85651	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I always take it from the assumption that the previous minister made his decision after reflection and responsible. As for new textbooks, they are a uniform format, somewhat modified content consistent with the new spelling, they are something easier, they no longer need to buy a set of textbooks, work notebooks, task collections. If these were sufficient reasons, I did not enter that analysis because it was groundless because the decision was made and any withdrawal of that decision would mean a large financial cost company for the publisher's actions. As for the fact that in textbooks, names that are no longer current, I think that such recent data really is not a place in any textbook but that I would now withdraw textbooks and students at extra costs also do not tend to do so. So I really won't do it, and the teacher always has the freedom to skip a part of the textbook. I'd rather focus on the future, and I'd rather think about the model of digital textbooks that we'd introduce after these expires. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85652	Commentary on Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85653	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. I'm sorry I'm not happy with your response, Mr. Secretary. Pro futuro can do digital textbooks, and I'm sure I'm sorry that you won't pull those textbooks, it shouldn't definitely be the parents. The printing of textbooks was done without previously modified and adopted new programmes and curicula despite the nullity of the decision and the administrative court's ruling of 26.4.2014. This printing and purchase of textbooks has impoverished Croatian citizens for half a billion kuna, 500 million kuna and no one is responsible for it. Someone's made a very good living on this. And as for the new textbooks and comparisons you were talking about, the fact that it just changed the format, it's slightly weaker gram paper, and it's possible that the fracture is something different that those who compared these textbooks were talking about. For parents, the price of textbooks varies depending on the unit of local self-government from 0% to 100% in individual units of local self-government. Although me primary and secondary education must be clearly not available under equal conditions in the entire region of the Republic of Croatia. What I want to suggest to you is the least you can do at this point is to apologize to the parents of the school children who have done great material damage, and that as minister you have a chance to secure funds in the RS budget for next year for subsidising school textbooks which you will hope and do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85654	The 7th question is being asked by Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85655	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I refer my question to the Minister of Entrepreneurship and crafts to Gordan Maras. Dear Ministers, you said at the beginning of this month that nearly 15,000 new crafts and businesses and 6 thousand crafts and almost 9,000 new businesses have been registered since the beginning of the year. To be bold and to become an entrepreneur today is more than a challenge, which is why such indicators are extremely cheerful. But we all understand that entrepreneurs, especially young people and beginners, need the help of the state. It is also very important to announce that all entrepreneurs and craftsmen from 1.1.2015. will pay VAT on an annual income of up to 3 million kuna, not on an invoice. My question is what measures do your ministry take and plan to take to help establish and preserve the crafts and how much are they available?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85656	Answer the question Minister Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85657	Thank you very much. Honored vice presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs. Your Honor, I thank you for asking, you've noticed. Trends in small and medium-sized enterprises are more positive and positive this year than in previous years. Especially happy is what you said that in the first nine months of this year nearly 16 thousand new entrepreneurs, meaning over 9,000 entrepreneurs and 6 and some thousand crafts opened in the Republic of Croatia. And I would say after the start of the term of office in 2012, when it's only in one year, it means the most at the beginning of the year because society was in an economic recession that we're slowly getting out of but, you know, the problems have accumulated for years. In one year, 28 thousand businesses and crafts were closed. And I can say that in 2013, in 2014, this trend is completely reversed and these two years we have 5,000 more crafts and businesses open and closed than it says, of course, that people have a desire for entrepreneurship and have the opportunity to survive on the market. What the ministry is doing with all our incentives, with guarantees, over a thousand guarantees in three years that HAMAG has issued several thousand loans and over 10 billion kuna loans to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs through the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, this year our entrepreneurial impulses and incentives from the Buddha will replace European incentives that will no longer be measured in hundreds of millions of kunas but in billions of kunas and at the end of this year we will open incentives worth more than one billion kuna for our entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia. What is particularly important, we are doing one measure since 1.1.2015, which you have noticed is one of the most just measures that we could take towards entrepreneurs for whom the former governments had no hearing, which is that for small entrepreneurs up to 3 million kuna VAT is paid by the invoice, means when you get money and not that you have to pay VAT and thus finance the budget. That's a lot to talk about for ten years, the last two HDZ governments haven't done it, but here it is, we made a step and in 2015 all those who want VAT will pay for the invoice, so it's up to 3 million kuna entrepreneurs. How many entrepreneurs are doing over 70,000 craftsmen and nearly 80,000 companies. So over 100, or nearly 150 thousand entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia will be able to choose this way of paying VAT and replace it to finance the tax before they charge the invoice. And what is the problem for people in Croatia today is the best way to say that the days of payment and indifference are still high and that for small businesses in the Republic of Croatia indifference, or payment deadlines are over 100 days. I think it will especially help those who open up companies to not fall into financial problems in the first month, two, three, four or first year of business and, in some ways, because of their inequitableness, because of certain tax obligations they do not have to close down the company. I think this measure is the one that will come across the approval of all entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85658	There's no comment. The 8th question is asked by a colleague of the Sun's Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85659	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I refer my question to the Prime Minister. Mr. President, I'm not going to ask you anything about the economy, especially in your words, you don't really understand what we're seeing, but I believe you're being referred to the most important acts concerning the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, especially those for which more and more poor citizens are devoting billions and 400 million kunas. For example, for all students in the Republic of Croatia, digital teaching could be provided. This is a contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Croatian Radio Television by 2017. Some members of this contract, which are very important, must meet democratic, social, cultural standards, take care of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and also inform the Croatians in a timely and true manner about political, cultural, economic life and the area of all that is of public interest. According to your words, you have often said this, do not follow a very informative program, it is your right but you have to worry about respecting the implementation of documents or contracts signed by your government. In recent months, we have witnessed a recent violation of the articles of the contract, primarily from the monitoring of informational shows, particularly the Croatian Radio Television Log, where, for example, your candidate for the president of the Republic, Mr. Josipovic, has stayed for as long as 5 thousand 400 seconds and, for example, the candidate of the Croatian Democratic Community from the last NATO summit could not speak for a second in the Croatian Radio Television Log. The more it is said to have been banned in the most harsh way possible. We also learned everything we could from commercial television and saw that she met with all the most important statesmen. Mr. Prime Minister, what will you do to respect the documents and acts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time, time.]] And why would citizens pay a TV fee? [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]] When I can't get objective for my money [[Thank you. Thank you very much.]] And unbiased information? [[Intruder Zgrebec: My colleagues were in time, I can rule you out.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85660	This time from the President's desk we can rule you out, don't put us in such a situation. Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic answers the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85661	I will refrain from commenting on your findings about the candidate's meetings with the world statesmen and I will only say that I and many of us are dissatisfied with some of the things on HTV in the information program but we don't live in the '90s where you were modeled, in which you learned to think about how to manage and manipulate public television. We don't do it and we won't do it despite the dissatisfaction that is present on our side, but that's how it is, that's democracy for you. Democracy is being taught, it's taking a long time. Otherwise, I apologize, or I don't apologize, but I am correcting myself, so according to the last census of the Bunjevac population, there are about 16, 17 thousand in Vojvodina and not 30, as I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85662	A comment from the Sun Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85663	Thank you very much. Mr. Milanovic, you are still the Prime Minister and you must know what is written in documents signed by your government. You're obliged to carry out what you signed. You are obliged, if not you, of course, to order your ministers to look at where the largest support is going in the Republic of Croatia. For a billion and 400 million kuna, we could employ 78 thousand 125 young people this year. Therefore, no one says and does not want politics to be affected by the HRT programme, it is not intended for anyone, but you are obliged to answer the question of how this money is spent and whether a test of public interest is respected, whether it is controlled, whether anyone has asked it, is interested. That's what I asked you, I didn't ask you about the economy because there's almost nothing more to say. We see where the country is going, I asked you a very simple question. Your answer is therefore a strong negation of all values achieved and I regret that in such an indifferent way you have approached this very simple but important issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85664	The ninth question will be asked by Mladen Marelic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85665	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I would like to refer my question to the Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure Mr Sinisha Hajdash Doncic. Dear Ministers, from HDZ President Tomislav Karamark recently we could hear that his party will support the construction of the Pelješka bridge and the fast road to Dubrovnik, so I especially stress not the highway passing through Dubrovnik but a fast road to Dubrovnik. Since part of the members of HDZ seen from our southernmost county is still a lack of understanding, which is why even the president of their party advocates a quick road to Dubrovnik and the Pelješki Bridge, please give me your arguments or arguments from the Government of the Republic of Croatia for such a determination, to tell us when it could begin with the realization of this project and in what correlation it is with the future Adriatic-Ionian highway that is also being discussed and discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85666	Minister Sinisha Hajdash Doncic answers the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85667	Dear Representative Marelić, for the complete answer to this question, I'm going to unpack it a little bit, and I'm going to share it into three components. The first is the construction of the Pelješko bridge and access roads itself, the second is the route of the fast road towards the City of Dubrovnik and the third is the extension of the so-called ". Adriatic-Ionian highways, probably somewhere in the future all the way to Greece. As for the Pelješko bridge itself, after a good business decision by the Croatian Roads to break up the contract with the bridge performers, which probably opened three or four times solemnly, but without financial means for its completion and in fact without complete masterplan or development strategy I will not say Dubrovnik-Neretva County but a traffic connection of the southern part of Croatia. There even the contractors breathed, so not only financially, because of course they had guarantees to the business banks, but I will also say materially because of the immobilization and human resources, and of course the material resources that were in that location. After that, Croatian roads sign a contract with European Commission consultants can call because in fact JASPERS is an official consulting team of the European Investment Bank and the European Commission which also provides funds, and is also doing certain supervision of the project documentation itself. And after the completion of the pre-productivity study that lasted and will last everywhere and where the deadlines of the performance of the pre-productivity study, feasibility, project documentation are actually similar in all the countries of the European Union because for large projects, for a minimum of 5 years from the project idea, design, pre-productivity studies, feasibility studies, so until the very beginning of the works of the Croatian road, it was very clear that a certain type of bridge is the best solution. Right now, and when I say it right now is talking about this week, Croatian roads will sign a contract for performers of feasibility studies, while they are performers. the company that completed the project documentation for the construction permit, so for the new Pelješki bridge finished and is actually being revised, which means that by the spring, I say somewhere by the spring, it can be March, April, all the project documentation that includes access roads and the construction of the Peljega Bridge for the application will be ready. And also Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Greekic said the exact news that there is therefore up to 300m euros of free funds that Croatia can use to connect Croatia's south, which means in the best conditions, I say in the best conditions of the access road and the Pelješki bridge could start building at the end of next year, which is even mentioned in the Transport Strategy of the Republic of Croatia and it is simple, it can't be changed. And in the future, believe me, 70 to 80% of the infrastructure will be financed exclusively from the common register, so there are no more megalomanic projects, no more borrowings of 4 billion, 3 billion say only through seaports, which eventually comes to you on the charge, and the Adriatic-Ionian highway itself is located from 2030 to 2050 in the basic network I will tell you the European Union. What does that mean? This means that in 2014-20 countries wishing to be members of the European Union, so the countries of the neighbourhood can use these funds through.... So it's not 12 billion euros, it's for all but it's one part that's used for road construction I can use to study pre-productivity and feasibility /The noise in the hall./... [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]] And lastly, I apologize, it is more logical that the highway passes through BiH, why, because the difference between Dubrovnik and the knot is less than the difference between Split, Zadar or the highway.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85668	Thank you very much. Minister, please, both representatives and ministers. Hold on to your time. You have 4 minutes each other, no comment There isn't. [[Intruder: There is, there is.]] There isn't. 10 questions, Nedjad Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85669	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My question is for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Zoran Milanovic. The industrial strategy of the Republic of Croatia for the six-year period 2015/20 is a strategic document which brings back hope that in the future we will work more, produce more, export more and finally reverse the overall economic activity and exit the recession. It predicts at the end of the period that the economic branches covered by this strategy come to the level they had before the start of the crisis, i.e. at the level of 2008. It is clear that the main results of this strategy will come at the end of this period, but due to the overall situation in society and the current very difficult situation I would say for most citizens of the Republic of Croatia, my question is what moves will be taken as soon as possible to implement this strategy as soon as possible and whether the citizens of the Republic of Croatia can expect positive effects of this strategy and in the first years of its implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85670	Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic answers the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85671	I can expect, but it won't be a process short or simple. Our growth was based on cement, asphalt and tunnels, and that's good at a certain stage. But that's where we got to the wall, we didn't get into the wall, but we got to the wall. And now it needs to be torn down or bypassed. On the consumption, on the side of the battery, on the construction of shopping malls, on the purchase of cars that are not produced in Croatia, possibly leather for seats or other parts of Istria. Unfortunately, that's all. Our exports are growing, but it's not enough and the fact that they're growing is a good thing. Public enterprises have to be correct here, so let me say, first of all, thanks to HEP, but everyone else is making a profit in 2013. It wasn't the case before. The state is responsible and I can say that this result is satisfying but not fulfilling. Therefore, the only way is for Croatia to benefit from the growth model that has all the countries, so everyone could be caught at some point and benefit from it, that this model of growth is, therefore, housing. Now we have a lot of apartments, if not too much. Frequent construction, bridge construction, tunnel construction that it came to a more or less close to its end. There are four and a half million of us, barely so many of us. We've got a thousand kilometers of FP and they've been working for a few months a year, and the rest of the year the same thing has to be returned to the credits that are huge. Minister of Transport, Maritime Affairs, Infrastructure said something about it. These are billions of euros that did not pay citizens directly, but were paid by the state through various forms of borrowing, and citizens pay through the price of fuel as do foreigners who come to Croatia who work the most traffic on these highways through the price of fuel. When you drive from Bavaria to Dubrovnik or Split, you usually pour in Croatia and pay the price of fuel. So, everyone's funding it, but not enough. But let me go back to your question so I don't prolong it. So the Croatian and only real way is tourism as an export branch, so it's an export branch, a clean export branch because 90% of the people from 12 million tourists who come to Croatia are foreigners and bring their money here or pay it through the accounts of tourist agencies. And the industries that are listed in the strategy. It's not an accident and it's no favoritism. So simply the food industry is very important in Croatia. It was necessary to meet certain criteria of the profession to enter strategic industrial branches. This looks paradoxical at first glance, so whether there's more important industries than food. However, certain criteria had to be met. I read that strategy and I had a series of questions. Some things weren't clear to me, some things that were obvious to me from my point of view weren't written inside. Like any strategy it is a long way and should be methodical in its application. One of the most important elements of the strategy is these projects, which Minister Hajdash-Doncic spoke of. So, we seem to have managed to secure 300 or more or more million euros in funding for connecting Dubrovnik with the European Union and Croatia, because we know that it is the only territorial EU piece of land that is not related to the rest of the EU, so it is not an island. 200m euros for Dubrovnik Airport. It's only half a billion euros for two huge projects in one county. Some in Croatia may rightly ask a question and what about us, but these projects were ready and they are going. It's also an important thing in the strategy. Earth, which is tourism, so air, air traffic and roads. But this time I end up not with money from credit, not from our citizens' money, but money from the European cash register. Because we haven't taken anything from that money yet and now we're leaving.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85672	Commentary Nedzad Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85673	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. I'm happy with your answer. That is why I am asking because of the moves that you will make very quickly in the realisation of this strategy because it will also draw construction in a certain indirect way. It would be worth considering in this country, as far as I know, a huge number of hotels are missing, which could once again be building an additional impulse and... So anyway, here I want you to make this strategy or document that's been waiting for years in this country as soon as possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85674	The 11th question is asked by counterpart Marijan Skvaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85675	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I refer my question to the Ministry of Economy, Minister of Economy Ivan Vrdoljak, and with the emphasis that we can really agree that the country's power is most manifested in its industry, also in the power of industrial production. The very perception of citizens' satisfaction is also based on whether it is possible to find a job in industrial production, not looking for jobs either in state administrations or in trade. After 24 years of our country we can talk about the downfall of our industry and the difficult employment opportunities. Of course, at this time many governments have changed, we have many academics, universities, chambers, institutes, but so far we have not adopted an industrial strategy. So I give you the question, Mr. Minister, will this industrial strategy succeed in launching a new human swing based on what measures and what criteria? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85676	Minister Ivan Vrdoljak answers the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85677	Vice-Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, so based on the strategy, there will be no growth of industry. Based on the implementation of the strategy and all the measures mentioned there, we have a chance to achieve that result. The measures were both horizontal and vertical and I did not see much comment in the debate that lasted almost 9 months. We have visited all the counties because for the first time such a document has been brought in, and as you said yourself, many ministers, many governments, many prime ministers, have talked about industry, no one has ever defined what we are best at, where we are most competitive, where we can expect growth, what we export, where we have at all the potential from an education system that can bring growth tomorrow. After 9 months and 1300 pages may come some comment, however, and bring some serious contribution to the content of the strategy, there may come many debates that can contribute to whether the score is in the right or wrong place, but the main thing that we all need to concentrate today is that we all my fellow ministers and tomorrow's governments and those after them are how to implement the measures. There's a lot of measures out there, I'm not going to dictate to you right now, there's a few sides. From the fact that highly educated new employees do not pay a health contribution for two years if they are in the strategic industry of drivers until they are partly exempt from profit tax, etc., etc. I'm going to go back a little bit to the question of my colleagues, the previous question, and that's what we've already had in the manufacturing industry this year in the first seven months of 2%. And in this same industrial strategy, 1% was planned for 2014 and 2015. In this same strategy, we have a plan by 2020 to come up with all these measures that we will have to implement up to 85,000 new employees with an average growth of 2.85%. And then we'll be at the level of 2008 employees in the manufacturing industry. So it's not any optimistic, it's a real, serious, professional document that we're going to encourage for the first two years of realization. We are already on the right track and these measures that we had in the past period have led to the growth of industry and the growth of exports that is foreseen in this same strategy already in the first seven months, only not official data, of course we will give it a year. We have 4 basic directions of measures that talk about creating a stable investment environment, promoting strategic cooperation, industry and education, restructuring of public administration, of course, and development of capital markets. It is very clear that our consumption was based exclusively on the activities of the capital market and on the financing of the banks of our citizens and households. And that is why there is no big growth in domestic consumption because it is not expected to increase the activity of banks in the placement of these funds but is based on an increase in exports in this processing industry that must restore competitiveness, greater gross added value, greater profitability and all that has not been seen historically in the past 20 years, but has generally been bought through operational measures by the social peace of the shipyards, in textile industries, in other processing industries and not given to them for their competitiveness in exports. Here, it's all part of that strategy. I expect that we, at the annual level, will seriously conduct debates that do not matter which political option we belong to about how some new measures can help to implement it, because the result will also be newly employed in the processing industry in 2020 and 2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85678	Thank you very much. 12th question, colleague Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85679	... President of the Government. [[Specially enabled.]] Last week, your trip to the U.S. and meeting with leading technology companies was announced pompously. Clearly, in the absence of good news and investment, this visit should wake up the hope that something good will finally happen. You yourself have contributed to great expectations by saying we are going to very serious business talks that no one has ever gone to from Croatia. Very pretentious, but it's your right. Unfortunately, after big words in your case very rarely come great deeds. So I must remind myself of the case with the LNG terminal and also the spectacularly announced visit to Qatar when the Croatian delegation led President Josipovic and the high government delegation to Qatar announced the implementation of the LNG terminal project, of course nothing happened afterwards. And you personally engaged in the project, very strongly defended it here in the Croatian Parliament, and I would remind you in Rijeka on 3 May 2013 you said the question is the day, the month when this story with LNG terminal will start to be seriously closed. It's been a year and a half, unfortunately, nothing happened. The main issues have not been resolved, neither have you purchased land for the construction of LNG, nor have you solved the source of supply, nor have you talked to potential customers, nor has an investor been found to build a terminal. So, after the big words, unfortunately nothing happened. Now, I'm asking you, if the same thing didn't happen, that those big expectations from the trip to the United States would turn into one big zero, I'm asking you what are the real goals of that trip, because you said that it wasn't political but purely economical, which are the concrete projects you're going to offer to American partners, and what would you expect in the economy to measure everything by success from that trip?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85680	Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic answers the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85681	I don't know if I have the right to answer on behalf of the President of the Republic because obviously the Parliament is trying to turn into a pre-election podium, and I'm not going to participate in that. The President of the Republic, everything he does, does well, correctly, receptibly, of course, within his capacity as President of the Republic. And when I said pretentiously that this is the first time that a delegation of this kind of format goes into technological and informative giants whose traffic individually exceeds social products and GDPs of most European states or many European states, I said frankly, just as I was telling the truth when I said that never a comparable delegation, no delegation actually went to such a meeting. In fact, nothing stood in the way, they could have done it sooner and we'll see the results. But if you don't play, you can't win. If you don't get into the field, you can't score a goal, you can't do anything. If you don't buy a ticket, you can't win the lottery. You know that joke with the Scots? Or who else. So that's the goal. We're not going to buy anything, we're going to talk, I think it's important that the Prime Minister of a European country, whose market is not only 4.5 million people, but is now a little wider in Europe, you know the same thing, and you know what this chapter is, so it's important that we introduce ourselves there. I hope we don't embarrass ourselves. The language we know, if we don't know, they'll translate, so I'm an optimist, but that I'll come back as... or a scribe with looted treasure, with crates of gold and scalps, listen it's another time, so I'll be back as the president of a civilised state, I have a team that's made up of people who are really great at their jobs. It was done in agreement with the American Chamber of Commerce. So he can't be more serious than that. And when we talk about it being an economic, not a political path, it's all in the end of politics, so it's the government's economic policy that aims to attract those who rule money, smartness and the future in some way and we want to be a part of it. We have some companies in Croatia that are in their class segment in Middle Eastern Europe, not in Western Europe. Not to make them and not to do a commercial, although some of them are so dominant that they don't actually have competition in Croatia, Tesla, etc. These are all products and knowledge that our neighbouring countries don't actually have. That's what we're going to do. Plus some other projects that we consider to have comparative and competitive advantages and that we can simply convince or make a good impression at this level, and the impression in such conversations is an important thing. It's not crucial. Let's get ready and I hope you can just back it up. So my statement isn't pretentious, it's accurate and I don't promise gold crates when I get back. And as for... the terminal, unfortunately, a lot of what you said is not true at all, but these are projects that don't go overnight, but that project is unfortunately, not unfortunately, but unfortunately, I'm not going to say to your regrets because I'm sure you're holding his thumbs, but fortunately given. Croatia is an energy so mildly dependent state, much less those with whom I have been sitting all the time, I am talking, who are actually in great stress because of the situation in Russia, we are having such problems, at least right now, and we do not have that terminal to be built. There's land, it's more or less settled, and of course it's projects that don't go overnight and of course we're not Italy and of course we don't have a Consum like Italy and Germany. It doesn't work overnight. And I think we should welcome the fact that we're just engaged in it actively. So we started playing. You're the one who tied the bathing suits to the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85682	Commentary, Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85683	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I'm sorry, the answer is again principled, general, without concrete things, and that's the key problem of this government. I repeat, big words, big announcements, big promises, but the works don't follow them. This government has no major strategic project, no major investment that will be made or started during your four-year term. So, as far as you're concerned, it's perfectly clear that you're now starting this project, it's not going to be over for a decade. You were talking about the Adriatic-Ionian highway, you're talking about 2030. It is clear to me that you realize that you will not do anything and are now reducing the level of expectations of Croatian citizens because it is actually in the nature of your government. A lot of makeup, a lot of pompnosity, and unfortunately, no results. And as for the U.S. visit, you really haven't answered any of my questions. The only thing you said about you going out there to show yourself, that it's important to show yourself, see yourself. As you said, you can't win a lottery if you don't buy a ticket. Well, then I would recommend, given that Euro Jackpot has very high profits, you might be smarter to buy one lucky one because it's a much better chance of winning the lottery than to bring one kuna to Croatia on a trip like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85684	13th question, colleague Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85685	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I refer my question to the president of the government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Zoran Milanovic. Mr. President, in Požega-Slavon County last year, a major elemental disaster occurred. In 2014 again in the 5th month, May, at the 8th month, at the 9th month, just a few days ago this year. I am concerned and sad as a representative in the Croatian Parliament in front of Požega-Slavon County that you did not find fit, not to visit us, not to give us words of encouragement, but you have not even managed to call us by phone, and our area in Požega-Slavon County has been threatened by any elemental accident and we have suffered great damage. The damages ranged around 200 million kuna, we were first flooded in Croatia before the disaster you declared in Gunja, we expected you to do so for Požega-Slavon County, but the town of Pakrac, the town of Lipik, Požega, especially the Plekernica that is threatened, you did not do so. I have to tell you that 1,100 square miles of pouring water passes through this area and that is why we express our concern that you have not visited us because I would say that through some money, and through knowledge and from Croatian waters we can build a system of flood defenses for very little money. I said the damages are 200 million kuna. So, Mr. President, I'm asking you as Prime Minister without reserve support for permission to build a dam upstream on the Orljava River without a building permit, as you have allowed for Karlovac, Sisak County so that we can defend ourselves... /The speaker is off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85686	Answering the question, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85687	I am fully and regularly informed of what is happening in every part of Croatia that is at risk. Fortunately, he's not as dramaticly flooded as Gunya. I'm asking the question, has the local administration done everything she could and needed? This is what we are setting up for all of Croatia because, at the end or beginning of the problem, the Croatian Government and the Croatian Water and the Army appear, as they do. Yesterday I was in northern Croatia in Podravina and Međimurje I saw no soldiers, all domestic people and firefighters, but there is also the state and there is an army to help. So don't think we're not taking care of every detail, but I'm asking if you and the former Mayor of Pleternica have done everything when it comes to spatial planning, when it comes to the dynamics of the purchase of land. You ask to be built without a building permit, I'll pretend I haven't heard from you. So the money is secured, it's done, it hasn't worked before, but you know it doesn't come in two months. People are very sensitive to the sanctity and inviolability of private property when it comes to their own, not giving their country below a certain price. I'm not going to say that some people are blackmailing, it's going on. You know that if you come from a place like this. I've been in some villages and places twice this year for several months. What do you think makes me happy? It would be best if I didn't leave because then you wouldn't hear the criticisms of some people who have lived there for 40 years, it's also a choice to live in a place that's risky, but then let's say that I expect people in this situation to cooperate and that the land we have to buy, we can't take it from them, we talked about it today, that it doesn't take so long. But even if we were there, we wouldn't be able to work things out in the last few months. Therefore, you are the same as the people in Gunja, there is no difference only that Gunja suffered more, she suffered seriously, and she suffered from someone's negligence and unprofessionalism. We're finding out whose because it's the money that was thrown twice. First in poor construction with a building permit, and then in state resources, the resources of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are invested, I will not say spent, invested in the reconstruction of houses, schools, all of which the state took over because I personally felt moral responsibility regardless of what I was in 2011 as Prime Minister and I was not responsible for the ministry whose vertical position was Croatian water, but there was Croatia as a system screwed up. Lucky for you, it didn't happen, but ask yourself, have you done everything you could locally? The responsibility of the local self-government unit in these matters is not insignificant.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85688	Commentary Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85689	Mr. Prime Minister, I'm really not going to say I'm surprised, but I'm worried about why you're answering like this. So do you think the local self-government units should build upstream embankment on the Orljava River, so that's the business of Croatian waters. What are we talking about? I ask you nicely as you have granted permission to Karlovac, Sisak, areas which are threatened by the floods to allow Požega-Slavon County as well. Don't tell me you haven't heard, I'm saying loud and clear that you're giving unreserved support to build these embankments so we don't welcome the floods that are surely following us. And in the course of this, we're going to produce project documentation and construction permits, and the new law on expropriation here is the minister we brought in, we've done everything we can to make the purchase of land as fast as possible and as transparent as possible. Therefore, local self-government units specialising in the town of Pleternica, which has already been built by two flood defence retentions, have also been included in the purchase of agricultural land. We'll do it, Mr. President, and this time. We need your consent to which you have not given me an answer, whether the Požega-Slavon County and its citizens will remain deprived of the government's decisions of the Republic of Croatia and whether the 500 households will again welcome the floods and be threatened again in their own homes. I only ask you to give me an answer, will you give the Požega-Slavon County consent as you have given the particularly endangered areas of Karlovac and Sisak, and we will result in all the necessary permits and especially what from Croatian waters we have the answer... /The speaker excluded./...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85690	Thank you. 14th question asks Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85691	Thank you, Vice President. I ask my parliamentary question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Zoran Milanovic. Dear Mr President, from the European Commission's recommendation of June 2014 it can be read that Croatia needs a smaller but more effective state administration. According to my information, more than 5,000 employees of civil servants and tenants have conditions for early, old and old-fashioned property. At the same time, a life-long severance as an institute without conflicting agreement between workers and employers and painless, I would say a harmless retirement that originally works in Croatia for 24 years and in financial difficulties, and a material threat to 3650 pensioners who, like their employers, considered long-term social security more important than one-time spending, which should be a dominant rule of conduct in the social state. At the end of last year, the Croatian Parliament gave the legal framework for a lifetime of severance by adopting a special law and created assumptions that such a way of retirement could be used more and more safely in Croatia. The only company that had survived and regularly paid each kuna and lip for the past 24 years, although since 2006, it has been operating in an enemy environment or under the HANFA embargo, which could not have been without consequences. The World Bank, the union centre, employers, was positively assessed by the Institute of Lifelong Retribution because it was cheaper and more unconflict, the president of the Republic, the minister of labour and the minister of the economy and the special tax status gave him even in 2001 by the Ministry of Finance. Mr. President 3650 pensioners and the general public expects that the state will save this institute, take it under its ownership and continue to implement it in the Republic of Croatia because it only needs an agreement and no more money than is regularly paid to pay the salaries Please take a stand on the future of the institute. [[Thank you. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85692	Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85693	You said exactly that only a year ago and some or a year ago was passed and a legal framework was adopted for a lifetime of severance. Why hasn't he been brought before I don't know if it's cynical to say we should ask those before. You're talking about that was, that the system was trampled or discriminated against by HANFA, so you said, I don't know. I know the law was passed, it didn't bring it... The former Parliament majority. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, it has happened that the insurance company has fallen into financial problems for which it itself is responsible. How much is this hole we don't know, that the Institute is good, that it makes sense we agree, but as responsible state finance lords we have to look at what we're getting into and until I get a precise analysis from the Ministry of Economy otherwise whose verticals from public companies have gone maybe and most of the people under that system I definitely can't give you an answer to that question. But I can also tell you that as far as the state segment is concerned, so state-owned companies or state-owned enterprises whose workers were leaving in such an early peace arrangement that these state-owned companies were very, very correct and precise and regularly fulfilling their obligations. Why the management of the insurance company got into problems, what they had, what they invested in, who controlled them, what a hole it was, whether it's 50, 100 or 200 million, how much they could be committed to these people, all of these are some figures that should actually be put into one very simple calculation that we're doing, we still don't have. Therefore, we cannot exclude even the insurance company from responsibility, but they may be the most responsible we do not know what they have invested in and that is the financial market. HEP or companies from which people left the arrangement regularly fulfilled their obligation every month in full faith. I can hardly accept that they are responsible for this condition. Therefore, we wait a little longer because the problem is years old, has not been legally defined. After being defined by the company, or that insurance company is in trouble, it is not so simple to take a commitment to the burden of the state of 50, 100, 200, 300 million kunas we don't know, we can't do that. Until we find out, I'm holding back.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85694	A comment by Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85695	Thank you, Mr. President. I think that should be seriously analyzed anyway. And I believe that if the work of this institute ceases that the hole will be the biggest and that the expectations of citizens who in good faith with their employers have made their own agreement in time and have chosen that kind of life-long severance, i.e. compensation for the damage they would have had to go into early retirement. It should be said that this institute indexed those pension values 24% during its existence. Furthermore, within 24 years, all obligations are regularly met in the day, hour, or minute, and that these characteristics should be taken into account when an assessment is made. I am sure that in Croatia, what happened at the beginning of this term cannot happen to us that we pay 200 thousand kuna of severance compensation for those people who are 6 months away from retirement, specifically in HEP. So it definitely can't happen to us anymore. And that we need to think about the long-term social security of our citizens, I agree with that. And I believe that if we have a reasoned discussion about this problem, we will find a common answer. And I offer myself to you if you need a team to conduct this restructuring in the public sector to coordinate it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85696	15th question of colleague Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85697	Thank you. The question is for Minister Miranda Mrsic. Dear Mr. Minister, according to relevant data from the Croatian Employment Institute and the Croatian Institute of Statistics, unemployment has been steadily reduced since the month of April at an annual and monthly level, which has not happened since September 2008. The exception was September 2011 when before the elections, when the unemployed were removed from the Croatian Employment Service records before the elections because of the reference to education and the reason for the election and pre-election campaign. Given the analyses that are being conducted, given the data that I mentioned to you, is this finally about positive trends with a long-term effect that we all expect and hope to be honest.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85698	Answer, Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85699	Thank you very much. So the trends we're recording in the labour market are accurate. We have since April of this year had a decline in the number of unemployed for 23786 people compared to 2013. On the other hand, there are other developments in the labour market in the sense that 106040 people have been employed through the Employment Service this year over the first 8 months of the year, which is more than we employed in 2013 for 25% and 26%, respectively. As for seasonal employment, we also note the increase in seasonal employment so that nearly 40,000 unemployed will be employed this season and on the other hand, it is one sign that the elderly are moving on the labour market. Trend is good, the trend is positive, but clearly given our seasonal employment we expect to see a slight increase in the number of unemployed in the autumn months, but on the other hand we also see new jobs. It is too early to say that we will have a constant growth in the number of employees or a few unemployed, but in the labour market there is a clear trend: we are opening jobs, we are hiring, and on the other hand we also see positive shifts in the record of the number of unemployed, because the number of entry records is constantly reduced for economic reasons. This means that companies are getting less and less fired, that companies are becoming less and less quit working on the labour market. As far as unemployment is concerned, it is high in Croatia. We're a country with high unemployment, and that's the consequence of everything that's been going on in the past 20 years, and that's the consequence that we have at this point very little industry that's opening jobs. It is expected that with the opening of jobs, with the increase in GDP, new jobs will be created and the number of employees will increase. We certainly won't according to the trend we now see in the labour market, we won't have as bad a situation as we had in February of this year. At this time, more than 40,000 people have been employed through active employment policy measures in Croatia, including over 20,000 young people who are employed under that model without a working relationship. We are particularly pleased that over 8,000 unemployed took responsibility for themselves and went into the labour market and opened their own company and operates on the labour market. We expect that, with the resources coming from the Youth Guarantee, with the funds that we have in the budget, we will also have this trend that, with active employment policy measures giving us results, we will continue this trend.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85700	The 16th question is asked by colleague Vesna Sabalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85701	Thank you, Vice President. I refer my question to the Minister of Culture. As has already been said, we have witnessed very serious river floods in the last decade, not only with us but also in other regions in Europe. Europe is hastily working on projects to reduce this threat through flood control plans and measures, so there is a general agreement that flood management plans and protection of goods are being adopted at all levels. River flood control techniques have been significantly improved since those first catastrophic floods, as recently witnessed by citizens of Međimurje. But there is still danger in other regions and floods threaten not only people, their health and property, but also cultural heritage. Floods threaten urban design and ethnic heritage, historical monuments and cultural heritage as a whole. This will certainly influence the attractiveness of some locations in the future, tourist attraction and thus affect the quality of life in these areas. I wonder if the Ministry of Culture has plans and strategies to preserve cultural heritage and what has been done to protect cultural heritage in so far flooded areas, i.e. what measures have been taken with regard to flood damage to cultural goods.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85702	Answer, Minister Andrea Zlatar Violić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85703	Dear MPs, thank you for this question. Since the month of May, although these are not the first floods that we could witness in the past, we have been taking care of four levels of cultural heritage. In the first group are institutions, namely libraries, museums and cultural centres that are necessary for the functioning of cultural and social life in places that have been threatened by floods. In the second group are sacral and fortificial buildings, with sacral structures that are in liturgic function in the first place, since their reconstruction is also important for normal work in each community. However, then we come to two areas that are more difficult to compensate for because they are not necessarily so heavily protected and belong to one side of the immaterial cultural heritage, such as costumes, musicals, traditional forms, so ethnographic heritage and traditional houses, especially in the county part of Posavina, but also in Pounj and in this part of Sisak-Moslavina County which last had a large number of floods. Our preliminary figures for June 30th, so with June 30th, were around 14 million kuna, and with this we still need to add these to say the new damages that occurred, which occurred in some places like Croatia's Kostajnica where we had already provided funds through UNESCO for the restoration of parts of the library, i.e. its basement rooms and its boiler rooms so that it could work at all. According to my understanding of how much I was in the field, and I was in a lot of places, in some places a permanent solution can only be found in the transfer of individual institutions, i.e. in Kostanica from the river level in the high school building while in some places with modern construction models like in Gunja we do a social home together with other ministries where one part will be a permanent library. In this sense, part of the funds is secured from EU funds, part of the funds will be provided for next year through regular funds of the Ministry of Culture with an emphasis indeed above all on this capillary government that must be extracted from the sacral objects and equally traditional objects and support to the kuds, cultural and artistic societies, all societies that are truly based on absolute non-profit and we can tell the volunteer to ensure the tradition and identity of their end. In addition to these two parts, so other than Župa, the county part where the museum in Županja was threatened, and now the Jasenovac museum in the Sisak section, I must say that the institutions of the related type have helped very well, so Stjepan Gruber County Museum were provided by the institutions of the museum in Vukovar and Vinkovci, and the building from the Jasenovac Museum was transferred and removed from Klović's court on Saturday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85704	Seventeenth question, colleague Damir Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85705	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I refer my question to the Minister of Environmental Protection Mr. Mihael Zmajlovic. Dear Minister, in the past year your ministry has brought a whole series of legal solutions that raise the standard of waste management especially at local level. That's, of course, good, that's commendable. However, we know that raising standards and raising financial resources. However, we also know that municipalities and cities do not have those resources. So my question is what your ministry has taken and what it intends to do to help municipalities and cities financially to, therefore, implement these more standards introduced by your ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85706	Minister Michael Zmajlovic answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85707	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So we in Croatia have been asking ourselves for more than 10 years whether we should do something about waste management and time is passing on to us and we are looking for transitional periods. And in those 10 years and more, we buried in the ground at dumps worth more than 5 billion kuna. And that's why it's necessary to change something about this matter of political will, the political will to move the amount of waste that ends up in landfills into other streams, and these are streams where waste is processed, recycled, energy-used. These are currents that open and new jobs or retain existing jobs. In order not to be a loose parole, we've brought legal solutions, we're sending clear messages, we're doing concrete measures that just show results. In the last two and a half years, the Environmental Protection Fund has funded projects to introduce a primary waste classification selection worth 400 million kuna. It is only for comparison more than it was in the previous 8 years or more specifically in the previous two mandates of the previous governments. So that's where the activity is shown. And to help municipalities and cities implement these projects, waste sorting projects are funded by 80%. The creation of a project documentation is the preparation for the 100% European funds and today no one can say that the lack of funding is the reason for us to continue with such waste disposal practice and not achieve the objectives of waste classification and recycling. Three important segments and three important pillars for the establishment of a complete waste management system for which we are due in 2018. It's to resuscitate and close existing dumps, parallel to building waste management centres. And the third is to introduce primary selection, i.e. waste classification. That's three pillars, three processes that need to be parallel. The establishment of the centre is also necessary because we cannot close dumps and therefore waste management centres are financed and prepared for funding from EU funds, and the county will, therefore, receive 90% support from regional self-government. So, only 10% will need own funding for these projects that are extremely expensive, but they are necessary to move those quantities of waste away from the dumps themselves. I believe that all cities and municipalities, and that already shows the figures, will go into these projects. In just a year, 316 cities and municipalities set out for primary selection projects. Now, unlike two years ago, already 83% of Croatian citizens have access to some form of primary waste classification selection and with all these measures and activities each day, these results will grow and the amount of waste that will be recycled and ended in these flows that give some added value, that is, where we manage resources rather than just waste, that these rates will increase in the first years and more than the European average, which is 3.5% a year. We will certainly have those rates twice as many this year and next. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85708	18th question, colleague Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85709	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I ask my question to the Croatian Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Milanovic. Mr. President at last week's cabinet session, you reiterated the position of the Croatian government, I assume yours, as well, that in the coming period, it will start to capitalise, sell or privatise the ACI, and that neither you nor anyone from the responsible Ministry of Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure has provided the Croatian public with any reason to move towards the privatisation of the ACI. Before I ask you a question, I'd give you a few facts when it comes to ACI. In particular, ACI does not need a strategic partner in either financial or management terms. Why? Because ACI is an extremely financially stable and powerful company. The ACI achieves an operational annual profit or rather achieved operating profit at 10% to 12% of total annual income by two years ago. ACI is, as you know, an extremely liquid company and ACI is not in charge of the company. Therefore, in this financial sense, ACI is not required and there is no need for any strategic partner, ACI can do so from its own sources and from its own obligations as a company to start a new investment cycle. On the other hand, ACI is a national strategic brand, a company that has 21 marinas and more than 5.5 thousand berths from Dubrovnik to Umag and some of its marinas are located in UNESCO-protected cities. But more than that, the government via the ACI, which represents the backbone of Croatian nautical tourism and tourism as a whole, can manage nautical tourism. Therefore, the government can determine in an important nautical offer not only on the Croatian part of the Adriatic but on the Adriatic via the ACI and that the ACI does not have a government should invent it in view of the importance of both nautical tourism and tourism as a whole for the economy in the Republic of Croatia. My question is what are the real reasons, I ask you to introduce us to the real reasons for privatization or capitalisation or the sale of ACI for what is the government doing in this process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85710	Thank you very much. Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic answers the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85711	First of all, I'm glad you have no further questions regarding the connection of the northern and southern part of Dubrovnik County. I guess it's all clear to you, and not even obstructions, and actually badness that's been followed over the past year while we've had to deal with it in the filigree, they haven't been able to screw it up. Thank you for that. As far as ACI is concerned, I'm glad you're asking that question because the whole ACI process is still in the infant phase. So nothing happened and everyone's watching what's going on. So there's no way anything as harmful or illegal as it happened in 2007, 2008, 2009, you know what I'm talking about. So there's no way and that's not gonna happen. The ACI has never been a well-run firm. ACI is underinvested, ACI has a practically natural monopoly that has never been able to use properly and in ACI the state, the Croatian state, will always remain a key player. That's the first thing you need to know. Whenever or whenever it goes to recapitalisation or privatisation. I have to say that I have, say, because the ACI needs capital, I have, say, an affinity towards Croatian pension funds. Why wouldn't I say that? All the funds that our pensions are in. Why wouldn't my generation or your generation and these younger ones have more solid pensions than we do? That's what I see as a national project. But if that's the way it's gonna be, we don't know it. And we don't know because this successful firm in its 20s or how many years under a stick mostly one government failed to land and book its property and its marinas. So no one's gonna buy it now. See, that's the problem. That's what you forgot to say. So it's not worth anything the way it is now. And until that's settled, and in the meantime you'll be watching every move carefully and warning me and my associates of possible illegality you can sleep peacefully. But ACI won't sleep anymore. It'll make money.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85712	Commentary, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85713	I thank Mr. President for your response that I am not pleased with. First of all, when you talk about how ACI does not have enough financial resources, I would like to introduce you to the fact that at the moment in Croatia, the only investor who is building any ACI marina, and that is Marina Slano in the Dubrovnik coast near Dubrovnik. Thus, this fact also shows how much and who in this country can invest in nautical tourism. In order not to turn out that we are in HDZ against private entrepreneurship, I would recommend that according to the Strategy for the Development of Nautical Tourism which says that in Croatia it is necessary to build 15 thousand new bonds, of which 5 on dry or on land, and 10 in the sea, that the government proceeds to concession those planned in the spatial plans of the port of nautical tourism, or marinas and thus contribute to a more quality nautical offer of the Republic of Croatia. Not that existing bonds only change owners. As far as quality and improvement and raising offers in nautical tourism are concerned, nothing will come about. As for your words, if I hadn't mentioned to you the Pelješki bridge or the traffic connection of the south of Croatia, I remind you that the HDZ Club's initiative on quality integration of the south of Croatia and the need for the construction of the Pelješka bridge has been on the agenda for more than 2.5 years, here is the 58th point in this agenda, and then we would have presented to you our position on the need to build the Pelješka bridge and the quality of the transport connection between Dubrovnik-Neretva County. And when you talk about being in a fair and fair way going to have a capitalization... it doesn't mean anything. Namely, and in a fair way can be done stupidly, not to say a hurtful move, which is... in any case.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85714	Time's up, thanks. The 19th question asks a colleague, Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85715	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I address my question to the government Mrs Vesna Pusic, the first vice president and foreign and European minister. Dear Madam Vice-President, the appointment process is under way, i.e. the election of members of the European Commission. Her president, Mr. Jean-Claude Juncker, has already announced actually one... which is significantly different from what Mr. Barroso's commission was working on. As part of the commission, if everything goes well, so will our former colleague and former commissioner, Mr. Neven Mimica. Public information is that one sector called international co-operation and development will lead. Given the speculation about what this sector really means, do you have relevant information for which future European Commissioner Mimica will be responsible, or the portfolio he will lead? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85716	The first Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign and European Affairs Minister Vesna Pusic responds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85717	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President and Mr. Representative. The truth is, it has been announced that in the new division, the structure of the European Commission, the Croatian Commissioner, if the hearing in the European Parliament goes well, will be in charge of international co-operation and development. I'm glad you asked me that question because it appeared in the media also some speculation and a hint that it's a bad resort. It was usually our first choice, this portfolio because it has in its budget from 2014 to 2020. 72 billion euros. So international co-operation and development. 72 billion euros, which is approximately 4.5 of the Republic of Croatia's budget. One part from the European budget and one part from the European Development Fund, which is somehow outside the EU budget fund. It has 4 instruments to divide these funds and has division by geography, so by the parts of the globe. It refers to countries, of course non-EU members, and these funds are invested in development projects, neighbouring countries and candidate countries, so those in the process or negotiations or EU accession can all qualify for funds from these funds. Of course, the whole goal of the European development policy as one of the main instruments, as well as 80% of the resources, takes European and external policies and international relations, is to create conditions in those countries that are in difficulty, to create conditions for sustainable development, which means that development projects follow commercial projects. In other words, companies that can invest, work, work there come for development money from the EU, but at the same time earning and the whole idea is to help the economies of countries that are now in difficulty to start functioning normally through the development fund. This is also a European interest, of course, in the interest of all European countries because it is then becoming a European market. And that is why the EU is also the largest donor of development aid in the world. Ours, if, of course, goes well in the European Parliament, our colleague and Commissioner Neven Mimica will work there with a whole series of Commissioners, but at the most – maritime affairs, internal affairs and borders, fisheries, humanitarian aid and, of course, the Commissioner for Foreign Affairs, or the High Representative and Vice-President of the European Commission, but I think we must be unusually grateful that we have a Commissioner who will be available in 7 years, so he will be 5, but in 7 years of that period, we must have 72 billion euros.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85718	Thank you. Commentary, dear colleague Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85719	Madam Vice President, I thank you for this exhaustive response. I hope now that these clarifications will calm down some of the calculations and speculations that have come about. Honestly, as his former colleague, I wish Mr Mimica much success in this work, above all, that the process and procedure of hearings in the bodies of the European Parliament will go well. But what you have just said, therefore, is that these funds, which will be available to the Commissioner, i.e. the sector at which he will be headed, will actually be able to have direct access to the quality projects of the country of our neighbourhood because these are actually the countries of the EU neighbourhood and the candidate countries which are also, above all, in the long term, also in which we, as a member of the EU, will firstly be able to seek additional chances for our development projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85720	20th question is asked by his colleague, Nenad Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85721	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm referring the question to Finance Minister Boris Lalovec. You have announced changes in income taxation and an increase in employees' salaries. Why isn't the non-taxable part of the salary a minimum gross salary of 3,017 kuna? Would that not only satisfy the requirement of social justice to tax and encourage the consumption of those who have the least to spend, and these are the people who are on the minimum? The minimum wage is a minimum standard for survival and it is logical that the state does not tax it. Citizens should receive higher salaries with a new tax policy, increase personal consumption and thus affect domestic GDP growth. In Croatia, the minimum wage receives more than 80,000 employees, isn't the aim of the proposed measures to boost the consumption of all citizens? Equalising the non-taxable part with minimum wage is not only logical but the Social Democratic Government should be imperative. Due to the number of citizens receiving minimum wage and restoring trust in the justice of institutions and the entire tax system, we argue that this would not only be a social measure but rather a boost for economic recovery and consumption, and ultimately a return of hope to our citizens to get out of general apathy in which society is due to the wrong economic and tax policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85722	Finance Minister Boris Lalovec answers the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85723	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow MP, your question is about taxation of minimum wages, precisely these proposed changes for the first time in the Republic of Croatia will not be taxable. It is now at a gross amount of around 3,017 kuna, when these pension 20% are denied, it is up to 2,400 if the personal deduction is, we say, that the personal deduction 1 is if those who have a personal deduction 1.5 that tax rate is increasing, which means that the first time the minimum gross salary will be non-taxable. What is the aim of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to continue with this measure and not only to change the personal deduction but also to adjust the level of tax classes in that way where this largest part of the medium layer will be charged. Is this the right way? It is. For what? If you see the total tax revenues you see that in the Republic of Croatia the most taxable work. Now that you take various contributions and pension and health benefits along with income you get to the amount of 50 billion kuna, that's very much. Second taxation is a consumption tax or VAT tax of about 40 billion kuna. When we talk about capital he's been taxed somewhere from six to seven billion kunas, when we're talking about property if we can bring it down to the communal fee of two billion kunas. With labour taxation policy, it has led us to make very progressive labour taxation very little work for people in the Republic of Croatia. And this is exactly where we count somewhere around a million and 300 thousand workers today, with this measure, we should encourage that we need in the Republic of Croatia a million and 500 thousand workers, a million and 600 thousand workers. It's the only way that we can have a stable pension system, a stable health system. And these precisely are the measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to relieve labour, which is, in fact, according to the European Commission, the only correct effort to be competitive so that they can hire us is the problem that very few people in Croatia are doing to us, and that is a fundamental problem. And with these tax policies, we're going to go to work, and one part of the burden will definitely have to come from capital and that part of the property because too many of these numbers that I said, too much of the taxes on work, leads to very little work by people in Croatia, and then you're at risk of other pillars like health and pension. I hope that these trends and certainly what you've been saying will not be taxed on this part to leave it to entrepreneurs so that they can pay even more to their workers without entering strong tax scissors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85724	A fellow dancer's commentary.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85725	So I thank you for your reply, but I'd be more pleased if you said that the taxed part of the salary is gross wages, not those 2,600 kunas, so the total gross salary is untaxable. A sympathic measure in the last year of the term of office but a little late. For three years, this government's social product growth has been based on increasing investment by public companies without success. You considered personal consumption irrelevant, and now in the last year of the mandate we are going to grow personal consumption. In the Croatian Labourists we have been defending this model for three years and we say that without encouraging personal consumption there cannot be growth and GDP. But for three years, you have declared us demagogues. We're glad it turned out we were right. But the burden of this measure must not be borne by units of local self-government, and more should be given to citizens with the lowest incomes. In order to succeed this measure, it is necessary to bring a comprehensive tax reform and make the tax system fair. First of all, by non-taxing minimum wages and by introducing higher tax rates for those with the highest income. So once again, I ask you to put the minimum wage and the non-taxable part of the salary into the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85726	Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic will be asked by counterpart Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85727	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's my question, as you have announced, is intended for the Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Milanovic, and refers to one of the series of announced and failed reforms that you have loudly announced. The third year, at the end of your term at which a number of reform initiatives were loudly announced by the government, many of them were not even close to any reforms but were in plan 21. However, they were all left unfinished or infamous. In order for the public to remind you and perhaps you have forgotten someone because the number is not small that you have advocated everything. I will only mention key announcements and a delay in real estate taxes, a plan to set up follow-up services in the state and public sector, i.e. outsourcing and then spin off, health reform, master's tourism plan, a fall of the Family Law which has been brought down by the Constitutional Court after two years of preparation, a delay in the introduction of civic education into schools, reform of local administration units and self-government, a delay in the implementation of reform in the judiciary, the monetization of roads. You have not achieved any of the above reforms, but you have therefore spent huge taxpayers' money by paying hundreds of millions of kuna in the last year alone to various consultants from France, Spain, consultations, consultations without visible results. Tell me, what have you decided to do with the reform of local self-government and regional self-government units, are you going to shut down the county or are you going to shut down municipalities like you did in your announcements and you want to do it? Do you want local units to be decentralised in funding management or do you really want them to disappear most of the time? Why did you give up the law that was prepared?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85728	Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic answers the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85729	It was hard to follow everything you said because everything that we did turned out to be or failed, let's just say you mentioned family law which is not true. Just so the public knows, so you're saying things that aren't true at all, there were certain deadlines, the law is in force. So there's this thing that you're so generously stating that at least half the things that aren't true at all and this other thing is half the truth, but there's no time or reason for it to be overly polymised and to be semi-limized at all. You know well that the county, as you said, we plan to cancel, or what word did you use? ... Shut down the county that, I don't know how to shut down the county, but I think we need to put out the Croatian Constitution first and we can't do it alone without you, so I'm asking you, would you be one of the firefighters in that extinguishing effort? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Would you raise your hand for that? When we are, when you're talking about shutting down the county or shutting down the municipalities. Croatia has a model of administration and local self-government that came into effect at the time of the war when things were more important than that, so the big public debate was not conducted, it was the way the boss wanted it to be. Some of the aspects of that decision are good, some are not, but to change that, it is not the decision of a parliamentary session, not a single term. Therefore, we have neither promised these great things nor will we change them, nor can we without you and you have shown as a party that you are prone to obstructing every initiative in the Assembly and the constitutional changes that we have proposed around the new year, none of that. So I don't count on your help and cooperation, I'm counting on only obstructions about all the things that are useful to the Croatian nation and the Croatian state. We'll continue to do as we started, it's not easy, we inherited if you're not yourself ready to admit what I'm about to tell you. One country where it was normal to have a gentleman asking me earlier what would happen to the ACI that he and Mr. Calmet said in the paper, so they took five thousand dollars worth of Omega Seamester in 2007 on the 25th anniversary of the ACI and then gave it to their friends. It's not normal for me, but it was normal for me back then. Mr. Bacic, you said that in the papers and you and Kalmet. They took an hour since Mr. Violic's name in a row of $5,000 and gave it to a friend. I see the problem, I don't say it's direct corruption, but to me, it's unimaginable. And that's exactly where we part if we've ever met. That's it. Here's what to tell you. There are no major reforms in the state without, so these are the facts that I'm saying that there wouldn't be anyone to gossip about. I'm not getting into your motives. I don't think it can happen to this minister in a dream. So I'm not getting into your motives. And as for the direction of the state, help where you can, obstruct where you want to do it out of pure perversion, know that you discourage us and scare us you won't and we're going to do what we do best to the end. And it's not simple that this tanker went with great inert and speed in one direction and it's hard to stop it without breaking its hull and rerouting it, that's what we're doing. That's what we do. We're looking for money from European funds, we're taking it. And this topic that Mr. Beus was talking about, that is, the question that Mr. Beus asked about the resort that was given to Neven Mimica, it's a very important thing. So the first Deputy Prime Minister said it was our first choice, let's say one of the first few choices. I talked about it with the President of the European Commission, of course I couldn't look ultimately, of course, that the resort that had been given Mimica had it in two consecutive terms, of course that every resistor has its limitations, and of course I will end up there that you can't look through the politics of your village, it's now mine, and now I'm going to pick it up and send it to myself. It's wrong. So we managed to earn half a billion euros for southern Croatia, To Dubrovnik County without having that resort. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] That's how I feel about it. Here's our development policy, and you're against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85730	A comment from counterpart Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85731	Thank you very much. Well, as always incompletely, incorrectly, I am dissatisfied with your answer because it hides the real answer to what you have prepared. You have prepared for local self-government, as well as regional self-government, a reduction in budget resources, given the increase in so-called He pays the workers. There will be no more renewed roads, and fewer schools will be built, less investment in health care. Here, as we can see, cleaners will be assistants in operations with your health reform. Likewise I would ask you nicely Mr. President of the Croatian Government to these consultants that you... So far, rule out their need, take for consultant the Croatian people who clearly advises you that your rating has fallen and that you no longer have the competence to run this government because everything you do, you do upside down and on the burden of Croatian citizens, Croatian entrepreneurs and craftsmen and we have no movement in your behaviour. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let the Croatian people be your best consultant. He speaks clearly of your achievements, of your opportunities and of your done. I want you to resign as soon as possible and come down and call the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85732	The 22nd question is asked by colleague Drazenko Pandek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85733	I ask the question to Mr Branko Greek, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development and European Union funds. Dear Ministers, fortunately, as recently good news, we can highlight export growth in the first 6 months of this year over 14% which probably helped and growth in industrial production of 1.4%. In particular, it falls into the eyes of the fact that exports generated by the computer industry and electronic optical products have increased by as much as 46%. Unfortunately, since we were unable to find out more than these dry figures through the media, it remains unclear whether the success of the companies in that branch is the result only of their tough struggles in which they are left to themselves or whether these results are also driven by active measures by state authorities, so that it should be and what I consider a condition for further progress in this area. Therefore, my question is whether the industrial area of production of computers and electronic optical products is recognised as one of those where strategic progress can be made and which should be of strategic importance in the development of Croatia and which measures will therefore be taken to make progress in this field firmer and increased.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85734	The question is answered by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development and European Union funds, Mr Branko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85735	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I appreciate the question. Well, from your question, there's actually an answer. We put it in the Industrial Strategy, there is no Minister now of Economy here, but we have made it clear what four sectors will be the backbone of the Croatian industry and the Croatian economy in the future. One of them is the IT sector along with pharmaceuticals, along with the production of electronic devices and appliances, plus of course the metal industry where Croatia really has one huge potential in certain parts of Croatia and that is what we will certainly cultivate and build in the future. The IT sector actually shows its data as much as it means. So on the one hand you have information that only 1% is in revenue, but 4% today in Croatia's GDP. Which means that the added value that is created there is extremely large, that the multiplier is huge and that is what the IT sector separates from other sectors, as well as the fact that in these 5-6 years the crisis is one of the few sectors that has grown both in income and in employment and most important in exports. There is evidence that in the last 5-6 years of the crisis, regardless of the crisis, this sector has grown around 80% in exports alone, which speaks of Croatia's huge potential for further development, further development of the sector. I can only say that the state has that system of horizontal and vertical measures to support industry. That system will grow stronger. Now we're in the making of a so-called. Smart specialisation strategies relying on or relying on an industrial strategy that will define a framework to assist these industries and support through European funds and other measures proposed by the European Commission to Members. But what is also important is the investment of the state itself in the IT sector indirectly. First of all, we already have around 210m euros in these mass operational programmes allocated to the growth and development of a wide-ranging network in Croatia. We practically want the internet to be available and all accompanying services in the last Croatian household. There are around 110m euros to develop other IT systems and communication technologies. In fact, we want the Croatian government to be and the Government, meaning it's completely networked into electronic systems, Internet services and actually making these services available to citizens. There's our big i-citizen project that's already been revived, so somewhere around 70,000 citizens are already registered to an i-citizen system right now, and we're still developing a system and health care. All this costs, and everything that costs is actually indirectly going to support the development of the IT sector in Croatia as one of the most definitely perspective sectors. And I can finally just say, it is our interest that the young people we educate in Croatia to stay in Croatia, to work in such companies and in such sectors with the highest added value, which requires the greatest knowledge, remain there and indirectly contribute to the development of the economy and, of course, to the greater GDP in the coming period, for which we are, of course, very much interested together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85736	The right to ask a parliamentary question is now being asked by a colleague of Hrvoje Nekic. Here you go. Guys, you have a red button in front of you a little bit wider, that's a button to turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85737	Thank you, Vice President. I will ask my question to the Minister of Finance, Mr. Boris Lalovec. Dear Ministers, since the Government together with the Ministry of Finance has taken a series of measures that affect or will affect the increase of the standard of living of our citizens, I would ask you to give us a concrete interpretation of the measure of increasing the non-taxable income from 2200 to 2600 kuna. What will this mean specifically to our employees? What will this specifically mean for employers, and how much will employees receive higher wages by your assessment?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85738	Finance Minister Boris Lalovec answers the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85739	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague. Now, at first, let me say that the government, this is not a one-time measure, and this must be a continuous measure of whatever government comes behind this. We, as you know in 2012, first raised the untaxable amount of personal deduction from 1800 to 2200, now from 2200 to 2600. So, in the term of one government for 800 kuna, a personal deduction has been raised to facilitate somehow the lowest layer, which has the lowest certain incomes that have quite a burden. I would like this part of the extension of the part, the untaxable part to continue and continue, and we must have room not only to raise personal deductions, but also to relieve the middle layer of citizens. This measure will certainly affect around a million employees in the Republic of Croatia, but it is very important to say that the government is not giving, as if the government is increasing wages. So this part refers to a reduction in the tax burden as it applies to certain salaries. Then there was the question of how with about four or five thousand kunas, how someone would just get 50 or 60 kuna, and those with 10,000 kunas to get 500 kuna. It's just important to say that those with a gross salary of 5000 kuna, so net about 3900 kuna, have so far been paying income tax 94 kuna. Today they will pay 13 kuna. So we want to, so today they're on such low wages and they won't pay any taxes. Those who have an average salary of 10000 kuna somewhere have been taxed with a income tax of 3 and a half thousand kuna. Look at 10,000 kuna already 3 and a half thousand kuna. Now let's say we have some taxation for 3,000 kuna and we think that's a lot. What is true is that in Croatia employers pay very much a variety of contributions or incomes, and citizens get very little and that is what the big problem is. So citizens have very low incomes, and employers pay a lot of extras. And this is exactly the direction we're going to unload the middle layer, to stimulate consumption. But this is not just for stimulating consumption, it's for hiring. We need to think about how more people hire and how to relieve work. We said in Croatia we are very taxing him 50 billion kuna is very much and therefore we are surrounded by investments. This is the first time in a good crisis, meaning since 2009 that it has been going strongly in the positive direction of discharging and repairing at least one small part of our citizens' home budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85740	24 questions and a respected Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85741	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, respected members and members of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to the vice-presidents of the Croatian government and the minister of social policy and young Mrs Milanki Opačić. Dear Vice President, you recently announced the establishment of a single monetary centre that should be established in a very short time. My question is when it will be, or when it will be, the creation of a single cash centre, which kind of cash-paying will be paid in that institution and what is the importance of setting up such an institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85742	Answering the parliamentary question, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy and Young Mrs Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85743	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, for this question. So it is one of the nine reforms that is not reform for one term. These are reforms that take place in at least two mandates. We will most likely begin the reform in 2015. So, the single money centre is designed as a unique place where all money payments should be paid to citizens, which means that the state in one place would have control over all the money fees that go to citizens. On the other hand, citizens would no longer have to go to a number of institutions, but they could exercise their rights in one place. For the single money center, we got a World Bank loan because we don't have our own funds. We received the loan thanks to the reforms implemented in the social care system, and also answers to those who say that we have not completed any reforms. So we ended up in a social care system of information that makes citizens no longer have to go to other institutions to get papers, but we can, therefore, see everything in the center because we are networked with all the institutions that we need data from. On the other hand, we have completed one major reform, which is a reform of social benefits where we have brought four fees into one, and this has led to a reduction of just over 25,000 people who have drawn money from the social care system, and they had no legal right to do so because now with better control we have been able to perceive it. In the census itself, nothing really mattered, but it allowed us to increase the compensation of 100 kuna for singles since 1.1 last year. It's not much, but in a situation where there's no money in the budget, we've saved that money on this part, so these 25,000 people who have been removed from the system, they've mostly been allocated to singles, we've raised them 100 kunas because these are the people who are the most skating in the poverty zone. It's still not enough to get them out of, therefore, the areas of poverty. But here's a step forward. A single cash centre should provide much greater savings and much greater rationalisation. We should go inside, so the second year guaranteed a minimum fee. After that, child benefits, maternity benefits and all cash transfers that go towards citizens. At this point, it is working to amend certain laws in order to simplify them to regulate the state administration that will start taking over that part of the work can be much easier to comply with these laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85744	Thank you. Following is the question of the respected Vesna Fabiancic-Krisjanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85745	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My question was addressed to Mr. Justice Minister Orsat Milenic. Mr Minister, this Croatian Parliament passed the Law on the Courts under which the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia submits a report once a year on the state of the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, we passed the law in February 2013 which would have resulted in this Croatian Parliament already receiving the Report on the State of Judgment for both 2012 and 2013. We are now the end of 2014, until today we have not received a single report. Although according to the legal provisions, the report on the state of the judicial authority, the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia may also warn of organisational problems, any legislative needs that should be changed, etc., etc. I wonder if you as Minister of Justice have any knowledge of why the President of the Supreme Court does not respect the legal provisions passed by this Croatian Parliament? Although it is known that there has been a lot of resistance within the authorities of the judicial authority in general to enter that legal provision and now it is a fact that even after a year and a half from the entry into force of that law, this legal provision is simply being obstructed by the very kind of government that is expected to really comply with the laws of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85746	The Justice Minister, Mr Orsat Milenic, answers the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85747	Dear MPs, thank you very much for asking. So, in principle, I think that every report should be followed as soon as the current year applies because it only makes sense then, means when it's discussed to see what can be done. What I'm specifically talking about, so I'm talking about all the reports from the justice portfolio, we're now going to be in the legal changes that will be very soon ahead of you to prescribe that it has to be filed by the end of the first quarter for the current year. So not only this report, it also refers to a report submitted only by the Ministry and the Attorney General, everyone. So, from our vault, all will be firmly prescribed in the first quarter. As far as this particular knowledge is concerned, it's all about him. I would say one thing, we have good cooperation, so in all the reforms that we are carrying out, etc., good co-operation with both the Supreme Court president and the Supreme Court. I'm sure it'll be in front of you soon. When exactly, I can't answer that because I don't have that knowledge. But I'm saying, in the future, there will be a precise deadline in which it must be submitted, this and all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85748	Thank you. The right to ask a question now gets a colleague, Zlatko Tušak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85749	Thank you, Vice President, I would like to address my question to Minister of Labour and Pension System Miranda Mrsic. Dear Minister, we have an ever-increasing indication of the number of unemployed, and after two years, that number fell below 300 grand according to the latest data. This is better and better data for every happy one, but when we look at some other data, then there's still something wrong and there's no reason for optimism. In a year, there are fewer people who work or are employed by 27 160 people. In the same period, there are less than 23,800 people who are unemployed. With all that, it's less like 1800 pensioners than it was a year ago. A smaller number in these three groups of employees, unemployed and retired seem like an impossible mission. Therefore, the public and citizens are interested in revealing the recipe of success for such better numbers on the state of unemployment. So, according to official data, it turns out that 6 to 7 thousand citizens disappear from your data monthly and they become simply invisible citizens. So I ask you where are these over 50,000 missing citizens and to give us a real and accurate number of unemployed in Croatia? Because these numbers about the unemployed no one can believe them anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85750	The Minister of Labour and Pension Funds, Mr Miranda Mrsic, answers the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85751	Thank you very much. Well, I expected the question when I saw you asking me this information and I'm going to have to disappoint you, there is no one lost anywhere but that you took a little closer look at the moment when from the records of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office "disappeared" in quotes 50 thousand of our citizens you will see that it was a month, two days ago because we harmonised the records of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office with legislation. So far, this has been done for years, to make statistics beautiful, so in the records of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, we had 50,000 companies that, according to tax rules and all others, were inactive, and they hired 1 person. Therefore, these companies did not exist. The positive trend that you have exposed here is seen not only in the increase of the number of people coming out of the records, because they have found a job, but also in what we have, as we note, and the increased payment of pension insurance contributions, which means that people are working, getting paid and then getting a contribution. In the 9th month of this year, we will finally have the right statistics regarding the number of employees in the Republic of Croatia, in line with all relevant queens we have. For example, we ran in the Croatian Pension Insurance Office and the companies of the deceased, the pensioners' companies, so we ran those companies that didn't work, the crisis municipalities, we ran under double OIBs. So when we reconcile the number, so only you have the information that you can write down that we were 30.09.2013 according to that methodology, so when everyone in there was, we had a million and 475 thousand 496 employees, and then, by the new methodology, a year ago, they had a million 455 600 thousand, so for about 15 grand, it's going to be less in the register itself. That politics, so employment has just come out of the European Commission's 16th September report on the Youth Guarantee where Croatia for the first time has moved away from the third place by the number of unemployed young people, we are now 4th, but it is not important where we are, but it is important that we have reduced by 7% the number of young people between 15 and 25 who were unemployed, now Croatia has 41.5, 1st Spain, 2nd Greece, 3rd. Italy, we're 4. So the measures we're taking are very much working and all of this we've done so far is go for people to find their jobs and take active employment measures, but all of the government's policies are for jobs to be opened. We didn't hide anything, look at the data, and you will see that in Croatia we will finally have the opportunity to follow trends, quite certainly the number of employees in Croatia will grow.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85752	The answer comments, dear colleague Zlatko Tušak. Here you go. Comrade Tušak, certainly works because he's new, you've been instructed. Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85753	Well, dear Minister, I still can't be happy with your answer because you yourself said that we're going to get final results on unemployed profits, here after 3 years by some new methodology. I believed I was going to get that information today because part of the information that you provided has to be provided by me. That in 8 months this year 15 thousand and 804 more applied to the Employment Service than they were employed. 179 thousand 841, and 164 037, and we have fewer unemployed, I don't know how that's just possible. But that's why we have more deleted unemployment this year compared to last year, for 15 thousand 823 because in 2013 there were 73 thousand and 500, and in 2014 to 8 months 90 thousand were deleted, which means 22% more than last year, and based on this data, if we compare previous years, since this coalition was in power, that part has grown significantly to erase those who are in the employment office, and probably these missing people who are looking for their jobs in another country, who have lost their faith simply to apply more to the employment office because the long-term unemployed simply have no chance, and it doesn't matter whether they are registered or not registered at the employment office.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85754	New question and respected colleague Sonja König. My colleagues, right under the microphone you have a little longer red tile.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85755	Yes, thank you. Thank you, dear Vice President of our Parliament. Dear Minister Mrak Taritas, the implementation of the family home reconstruction programme is under way, the energy reconstruction of family homes, a programme that brings many benefits, brings many savings. And many citizens across our country are already using funds to rebuild their facades, to rebuild their carpentry or roofs. My question, Minister, is it true that because of the lack of interest of the city administration of all the counties of the Republic of Croatia, only citizens of the city of Zagreb cannot apply to this programme, only the citizens of Zagreb cannot apply for subsidies for the energy restoration of their family houses? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85756	Let's listen to the response of the respected minister of construction and spatial planning, Mrs. Anka Mrak Taritas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85757	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, yes, what you asked is quite correct. In fact, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted an energy reconstruction programme for family houses by 2020 with a detailed way to implement it from 2014 to 2016. It's about a program that began with the idea that at about a year's level we would allow 2000 family houses to be restored in terms of energy recovery. It is a programme that we implement together with the Ministry of Environment and Nature and the Energy Efficiency Fund, but the interest was so great that the funds for the reconstruction of 6000 family houses were provided. So it's about a programme where the citizens of the Republic of Croatia get a subsidy from their country of 40, 50, 60, and in some cases 80% for the energy restoration of their family home. Energy recovery means the following, which is that this house in terms of energy is much more favourable, that citizens pay significantly less for their energy, that it is in their, so I would say, appearances are much better. What's the point is that this is how the construction sector is encouraged, and the purpose of it is to encourage the construction material industry as well. It is convenient to know that over the past 10 years, 2,000 family homes have been renovated in this way, and this year it is applied and 6 thousand family houses will be restored. The citizens of Zagreb do not have that option. The city of Zagreb as well as in some other projects when it comes to the projects of this government acts as an island. He acts for himself, and in this case he did not allow his citizens what some other units of local self-government and regional self-government allowed their citizens to use the subsidies of a state programme. So it's not the only case in which the city of Zagreb behaves like that. Indeed, there are a lot of questions in one ministry which, in the second ministry, which in the Energy Efficiency Fund, we will encourage all of these for the next year directly through the fund, through the state to enable the state to enable citizens of the city of Zagreb with its behaviour, I repeat again, so the city of Zagreb really behaves as an island, does not act as the bearer of development as one of the main cities of the state that recognises programmes that should be and in the interests of their citizens, we will also do so through the funds to enable the citizens of Zagreb to directly apply and directly use the state programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85758	28th question will be asked by counterpart Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85759	Thank you. I ask my question to the Prime Minister, Mr Milanovic. Mr. President, unfortunately, I have to disappoint you because I'm going to ask a question about Dubrovnik and Dubrovnik-Neretva County's traffic isolation, although you have shown your position earlier, believing that everything is clear here. It's not clear. Why isn't it clear? In the answers to the Peljega Bridge, you said we secured 300m euros and some million euros from the European funds for the Peljega Bridge. I hope so, but it doesn't sound anywhere. No European Commission document says it is a project of the Peljega Bridge. I ask you to ensure that the official European Commission documents say that it is a project of Pelješka bridge and access roads, then we will make sure that it is one of the ways of extracting Dubrovnik and Dubrovnik-Neretva County from traffic isolation. So when it is officially in the European Commission documents signed by the Croatian government with them. Second. A few days ago you spoke in Cavtat with non-EU prime ministers about the construction of the Adriatic-Ionian road. Then you agreed in principle that the route should continue after the BiH Board of Territories further towards Montenegro, according to Trebinj, according to Montenegro, according to Albania and Greece, as foreseen by the Adriatic-Ionian highway. I wonder, can you tell us why you did not respect and what prompted you to disrespect the existing spatial-planned documents of the Republic of Croatia, I am referring to the transport strategy and I am referring to the spatial plan of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County that is in line with that traffic strategy. Namely, there it is drawn into all the cards and all the plans that the highway will work from Ploč towards the border from BiH towards Neum, after receiving the corridor behind Neum 10km when the corridor is obtained will continue towards Slano, or according to Ovojnik, which means up to Dubrovnik. Why did you give up? Why don't you respect the valid documents of the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85760	Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic is answering the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85761	So more than 500 million euros is secured for Dubrovnik Airport or Airport, and now there are over a million and a half passengers a year and it will be even more permeable and modern and 330 million euros for road connection, this is where we came from. I'm sorry if that doesn't satisfy you. And when it's clear that it's a bridge or I don't know what, what is road connection, then you'll probably be left without a single question. So right now, 330 million for road connection. What does that mean, translate it. I'll still be restrained for now, so I'll say it's not a bridge, it's a slide, it's a road connection, that's where we came from. And where did you come from? Until the construction site was opened five times without permission, i.e. without money much more important and the conclusion of contracts with performers that we had to break up and expose ourselves to who knows what risks. The companies failed because of that. So then the government knowingly concluded contracts with contractors to build a bridge that was not secured by June. And now we're talking here about some kind of HDZ initiative in Parliament to connect it all to the bridge, so it's a travesty, it's unserious. So 330 million is there, now if it's not a bridge, what is it? The alternative is the corridor above Neum, but it's not our territory. It's a solution that I'd also be inclined to do if it could ensure extrateriority, but it can't. Therefore, we do not have a negotiator on the other hand in BiH, so the bridge remains some kind of underwater tunnel. But let's not argue that it is not up to me to decide, but to bring it to an end by the European Commission. I'm just telling you what we've done so far, very much, nothing has been done before. All right, we weren't members of the EU, but nothing was done. So are you satisfied with this answer? 330 million for the road connection of Dubrovnik to the north. It can be over Peljesac and I don't see where else, it can't be through Korčula and Lastov. As far as spatial plans are concerned, look, there is a strategy, there are major projects, and everyone else is a strategy, and especially county spatial plans that are plans of a lower order compared to these more, I see that this particularly offends the mayor down as if it were a state document of the first order, it will change in the common interest if we succeed in achieving this project. But the Adriatic-Ionian highway is something else, so I don't know if we're going to build through those beautiful places of Dubrovnik coast across people's terraces and through the basements and taverns of four lanes or above on a plateau where it's faster, cheaper and more quality, and thus bind traffic from Montenegro, Albania and Kosovo, because Albania and Kosovo are never for political and emotional reasons going through Serbia, but we would like to go through Croatia and thus extend the Croatian highway that ends in Plots and south of Ploč lives very few of our people. But the south of Dubrovnik County, together with Kosovo and Albania, lives 6 million people. Imagine that all year round, they travel a little northward as the revenues of the Croatian highways are. So that even the cost of building the kilometers we managed to reach during the term of office of one minister and one government will not be an obstacle to making money. It's such a potential, but that's what we have to work on. And that's what we're doing. So the objection that this is contrary to the spatial plan of the county forgive me isn't serious, you'll change it, we'll change it together, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85762	Commentary Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85763	Unfortunately for your behavior around the bridge, you can say it's a travesty. When you came to your term in 2012, you said you weren't going to build a bridge. Your colleagues and your partners said it was a fairy tale, your minister said he would handle Neum's 5m-euro traffic, and we see how he handled it. I'll just remind you what you said in January 2012. You said the highway was the part of the Adriatic-Ionian highway or served only Croatia as a buckle to avoid the discomfort over the merger of Dubrovnik will work. You said the following, we'll make a highway, so from Ploč, it's now to Ploča highway to Ploč, from Ploč to Neretva Valley through the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina behind Neum 10km, according to Slano, and that's a big solution for Croatia. That's what you said two years ago. So who can trust you more? What's a cheap solution, what are you talking about? Will you develop Trebins? Do you really mean to humiliate Croatian citizens from the south of Dubrovnik to go across Trebinj towards Zagreb? If you want to develop Trebinje, please contact the Prime Minister of Republika Srpska there, you will surely achieve success.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85764	New question, respected Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85765	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. My question is for Mr. Boris Lalovec's finance minister. Dear Mr. Minister, you have announced that you will start taxing interest on savings at 12%. The reaction of certain circles that spread hysteria and panic was immediately followed in a way that places disinformation that not only the interest is taxed but also the total savings on the citizens' accounts. It went even so far as to invite citizens to get their savings out of banks and keep them at home because no one will be able to tax them at home. I would ask you once again for the sake of the Croatian public, for all of us here to explain exactly what will be taxed and what no interest on income is, excuse me, what tax rates are on interest incomes that are taxed in our neighbouring countries and the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85766	Finance Minister Boris Lalovec answers the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85767	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative, regarding the taxation of interest on savings means it is the correct termology, so there is no taxation of savings, in fact I don't even know in Europe that someone is taxing the deposit but earning from that savings, it is certainly one of the instruments where we see it as a compensatory measure of one part of the income that will actually go to the burden of units of local self-government, redundancies of income from work and certainly as one of the measures where these effects should be compensated. However, when you get some information that you have a strong saving concentration in the Republic of Croatia, then the question of their redistribution is raised. About 400,000 Croatian citizens in Croatian banks have about 147 billion kuna, meaning 147 billion kuna saves 400 thousand Croatian citizens. And they make $3.8 billion a year out of interest. So every year, 3.8 billion kuna makes 400,000 Croatian citizens out of interest on savings. How much of that distribution to show you how much the concentration of a large part of savings in a small number of citizens is that only 50,000 Croatian citizens have 75 billion kunas of savings, means only 50 thousand of them and that they only make 2.3 billion kuna a year and that this is untaxable and that our work is taxed by 40%, so you have a 18% tax. And when you see this structure that 50 billion kuna is our annual tax work, and that's why no one wants to come to Croatia and that your capital in Croatia has been taxed by 6 to 7 billion kuna through tax, this savings question arises whether redistribution of the entire system is fair. Many European Union countries are strongly taxing savings, savings interest, and taxing heavily. Our neighboring countries at 25%, Scandinavian countries at 30%. So we decided at the lowest rate of 12%. And imagine those who make $3.8 billion a year today will now make 3.4 billion a year. So 400 million kunas we're talking about, and now we can ask whether this rate is the lowest of whether it's fair in that part. But we're used to taxing 40%, 18%, taking everything from the workers. That's why we don't have jobs today. And when you see what it's like, what are the bipolar sides in Croatia to have 50,000 citizens with 75 billion kuna and you have 150 thousand Croatian citizens who can't pay their bills up to 10 thousand kuna. Look at the kind of society we've created as far as we're concerned, and these guys can't get a job. These 150 grand cannot be employed and the work is taxed with very high rates. And these 75 billion who hold these 50,000 are not taxed. And therefore, the measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia are essential, strategic, precisely in this direction to reduce taxation, to hire, and they will not escape with their capital because they are paid by residence. If I can go to another country, I can only pay more. If Croatians decide to save in Sweden, they will pay 30%, in Croatia they will pay 12. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85768	Thank you. The 30th question, dear Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85769	I'd like to ask the Minister of the Interior. Dear Mr. Minister, Istra is so quiet as to call it the hip-hop festival. Otherwise, to be honest, I call them drug festivals. At this year's Dimensions, a 300-person outlook was found by the police. Yesterday we received reports from the Istrian Police Administration in Rovinj 50 and something also found drugs and issued mandates, I'm talking about the Police, from over a million and 200 thousand kuna. Of course, let's not go too far, so let's just say, 95% of those festivals are actually on pills. This in some ways turns Croatia into a drug destination sponsored by local self-government, as well as our Ministry of Tourism with 300,000 kuna. Now there's a question of how to put an end to it. I think I know, but I'm helpless and what's worse, apparently on that Outlook writing media, this year with my group Grain was supposed to be the one that cut off a few of them head down in Syria or Iraq. It's a 24-year-old Abdel-Mayad Abdel Bary, jihad... And the question would be Mr. Minister if someone was monitoring what's going on at those festivals in Pula, whether they're doing it, who's doing those work permits if such people as the media are writing are coming, whether they're doing a security check because I have the impression that this whole radical London scene is coming to Istria to get a little rest and then they're going back to their starting positions up in London.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85770	Thank you. Interior Minister Ranko Ostojic answers the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85771	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Honored Parliamentary Representative, as you have stated, in fact, in the announcement of parliamentary questions, then I prepared it a little bit. The numbers you specified are partly correct. I'll respond first of all to the results of the abuse of drug crime at the music festivals. These last three who took place in the 9th month were infractionably 154 people who were registered at the Dimensions Festival which was 27.8.-1.9., about the quantities that I'm not talking about now, I'm going to give you this written all neatly, 192 persons offenses, and 6 persons criminally at the Outlook Festival, and at this festival in Rovinj 51 seized drugs, found 1 crime and 50 violations. But I wouldn't diminish, of course, you can see for yourself that the police activity, and especially the results made by the Istrian Police Administration in the area of drugs issues, so that I can conclude that this is any kind of drug destination, which is why it would be a very simple partnership with any such festival in the world. So, about that statistical data that much. And as for this Mr. L Jinny or the British rapper who was allegedly found to be performing at the Outlook Festival, the evaluations or checks carried out in the competent conference of the Foreign Office, the citizenship of the Istrian Police Administration is not found by the person with that identification data or has submitted a request, nor has a certificate of application for a possible work permit been issued. Therefore, it is very much monitored as far as it is concerned. And the last part of the answer, said gentleman suspected of executing journalist James Foley according to the Home Office records, was not in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85772	Commentary, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85773	So this year I want to commend the police. 397 of them owned drugs at three festivals. Croatian security services must serve all mechanisms to detect any radical elements and jihadists. To be clear, the Islamic community in Croatia is loyal to the Croatian state and is not prone to radicalism, I underline it. Finally, in Zagreb, I have Aziz Hasanovic as no one has condemned these crimes in Syria and Iraq, and God forbid that someone equalises the Muslims with some radicals. But Pula, Istria, that's what I'm saying, we have a problem with that drug, and these festivals are the crucibles of these monsters, and we had a problem a few years ago and with the Istrian police, which I'm going to talk to you about later on. And the media says to a large extent that some of the group, as it is called, are dirty or somewhat translated, simply staying down in Istria. Croatia is economically shaken, it is socially vulnerable but it is security-sustained and should be easily insisted on this because it is certainly one quantitative advantage of the Republic of Croatia perhaps ahead of a number of other countries in Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85774	The question will now be asked by distinguished counterpart Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85775	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to refer the question to the Croatian Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Milanovic. Mr. President-in-Office of the Government, the Law on concessions of Article 10 provides for a study of justification for granting concessions and an assessment of its value. Article 12 provides that this study must, in particular, include an assessment of the financial effects for the Republic of Croatia, economic and legal analysis and analysis of public interest. Where's the justification study? Where's the financial impact assessment? Who made that? How much is that paid? Is it paid? On what basis did you decide that it was economically justified to put highways in a concession? Where the analysis of the overall public interest is and how it is possible that the generally accepted political decision on the construction of public goods comes down to the economic account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85776	Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85777	All these assessments, of course, exist and I'm surprised you didn't see them, but perhaps to look into the economic programme of the previous HDZ government when you were also in a party that, in its economic recovery plan, was called 2010 as one of the measures envisioned the concession of highways. Right? That's right. Is that what we were attacking back then? We didn't. But that's what you wrote, that's when you didn't object. I'm talking about monetization. So, Croatian citizens participated in the financing of highways and continued to participate, these huge, not so expensive, but huge loans through a certain amount of fuel prices as well as all those foreigners who buy fuel on Croatian pumps during the summer when they are the most crowded and when the highest percentage of traffic is happening on them. Croatian highways are public well. The historic project that began and to a practically mature stage led to the government of Ivica Racan. Later it went down and down to the record, that's good. It doesn't have a clear economic calculation, but there's more than an economic calculation, and that's a national interest. The national interest of Croatia is to be connected by highways and we have here without European funds, without a single drop of money from the European Commission, regional and other development funds built and connected Croatia as no other state in Eastern Europe. Even Slovenia didn't do it that way. Secondly, Slovenia is much more compact territorial. Croatia with its four-and-a-half million inhabitants has huge distances to connect and we have succeeded. More than 4 billion euros, the main one should be returned. The debts are coming back. Give me a model. Maybe it says in that economic recovery strategy of the government whose supporter you were then, maybe it says how to secure that money. Concession, monetisation based on clear rules and contracts is a civilized business model that exists around the world and in large parts of Western Europe. As you know in Istria from day one, highways have been operating according to that model. When you're driving, do you notice the difference? You don't notice. Do Istrana notice the difference? They don't notice. It will be in that contract if and when it closes clearly what happens in case the traffic exceeds a certain amount. So it cannot be at the expense of the Republic of Croatia. Clear certain maintenance, clearly defined everything. The only difference is that whoever enters that monetization can currently get billions of euros of almost liquid money at a lower interest rate than we do. You know that well. These are the basics and that's all wisdom. The roads are here, they're built and they won't be washed or taken away by anyone. They were built by the state's efforts. So it's a burden that's only marginally transferred to citizens. It was not made from a budget like in Slovenia. This was done in a moment and began to work at a time when the international money market opened up opportunities in 2000, 2001. As you remember, it wasn't even the election program of the coalition at the time, it wasn't even promised in the elections, because it simply didn't want to talk fairy tales. But when responsibility was taken, it was realized that it was possible, finally for the first time in Croatia history, and it is now there. So you supported it in 2010. Well, don't back up now, but don't mind. It's a very clear and precise model in which we will protect ourselves in the fifth decimal. But if you give me an answer to the question of how to get back with this kind of traffic that's small and it won't be much bigger than 4 billion euros, chief, I'll bow to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85778	Commentary Goran Maric. My colleague Maric works. You've been instructed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85779	It wasn't turned off. Give me back my time, please. It was off. Now he can. Give me back my time, please, 15 seconds. Give me back my time, Mr. President. Thank you very much. I've always been against concessions and now and I'll be in the future, but I understand your apologetic explanation, although it's not acceptable for me because you haven't answered a single question. But I understand you, it's hard to defend indefensible, let alone defend the statements of your elected minister, who, in style and content, are only confusing. Imagine your minister says it's a decision to make concessions business decision. So what is the director of Croatia? One of the generally accepted political decisions is now being brought down to the economic account of the bartender's tender is devastating for Croatia, and your eliminated minister says he will guarantee the concessionary's revenues. Imagine! The proceeds are guaranteed by the concessionaire, and the Croatian risk and loss. Great! Continued masochistic Croatian practice, protection of various strategic partners, customers and concessionaries. Was building those same highways a business decision? It's not. It was a political decision. It can't be an economic decision when it comes to public good. It can't, it's public good. And the one-time payment you're talking about the concession is just a sign of defeating and humiliating both the state and the economy and national security and the people. With the concession you say and a one-time payment, it will be Croatia's most expensive loan to be returned for 30 years. And you're writing a manual to the Croatian people for long-term therapy, believing that they will... to be able to heal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85780	Thank you, too. Next question, respected Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85781	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will refer my question to Mr Sinisha Hajdash Doncic, Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. Dear Mr. Minister of the project Luka Gazenica – Zadar is therefore a major Zadar project and Croatian project which we have already started as a coalition government in 2003. Although the project should have been completed long ago, it was promised in previous mandates that it would be in 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 and otherwise whenever the elections were coming, it was promised that here is Luka Gazenica only to be opened. But here's how we started it. We're obviously gonna finish this project ourselves. However, as the previous government has made the project megalomaniac, the biggest problem, according to its tried-out recipe, is the more expensive it is, so here at the end of the project it turns out that the ports are bigger and that our ferrys are too low for such ports so that cars can't get off the ferry at all, they couldn't get out. Tell Mr. Minister what the Government is doing, what do you and the Ministry personally do to resuscitate this irresponsible behavior and finally put Luka Gagenica in office?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85782	The question is answered by the Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure Sinisa Hajdash-Doncic, so I ask the MPs not to earn it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85783	Thank you very much. Since you're coming from Zadar, you know best that I've actually been dealing with business decisions for the last two years affecting megalomaniac projects to put them in some reasonable way to say an economic, functional conceptual whole. So let me tell you a story from maybe 1950 and visits to the U.S. Khrushchev and copying Silicon Valley that never lived or about some investments in southern Italy in the '50s, the '60s that are actually called cathedrals in the desert. So these are economically absolutely dysfunctional projects. But it's not the gauze. It's just, unfortunately, since 2006, it's been run the way it has been since 2006. Is it possible that the price of squares, not ports, terminals, is 2600 euros, 50 million euros? Is it possible that there are no concessionaries for this whole period? And then someone's saying that someone's against some kind of construction of an onion, a terminal. No, it's just a business decision to put it back in some level that's good for both concessionaries and citizens. That's exactly how we're gonna end it. We will conclude that the construction of the terminal, the building itself, will be optimalized through a business decision and through a business decision will actually be made with below 1000 euros per square square where there is interest in saying potential concessionaires. And again, that word of concession, that's a very nice word. And through the concession of one part of the building to foreign partners, so who have the knowledge of managing potential... To enable the local concessionaire, which is the Jadrolini, which is prepared for internal cabotage or liberalisation of the domestic market with 1.01.2017, to enable them to maintain a strategic position in the Zadar water area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And as for the ramp, so it would be similar to that of us French concessionaries, again concessions, so we did not allow them to first talk to Croatia airlines, so let's say that the entrance-exit ramps do not adjust Croatia's airlines. That's the story you had with Gaznica, so no one talked, it was projected, there were cathedrals in the desert probably for local political breakthroughs. However, Jadrolinia and the port administration of Zadar will address this problem and I believe that in 2 to 3 months these ramps will be leveled to allow the Jadrolinia fleet, which is what it is, is good, to still fit and drive so in Zadar, or to sail in the Zadar water area. And that's what we're gonna do. As we're going to say early next year and go into the concession process of part so-called. a building that will serve as a terminal building. But gradually and I say simply modular. And finally, I would say, so the whole Gazenica project is worth around 170m euros, in the end since 2016, in 2017, so any future government, I'm just going to ask who's going to repay that loan? Is the Port Authority of Zadar or the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Like other ports, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be aware of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85784	New question, Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85785	Dear colleagues, I ask Mr. Prime Minister because in the past the problem has already been presented at all other levels and without success. It's about discrimination, one particular discrimination. I'm talking about a pulsic company that works in manufacturing, which exports, but also deals with nautical tourism and small shipbuilding. It's a company called "Technomont" from Pula that employs 600 people and there are almost 6 years, which Pula has given a lot. And it's about a company that exports 80% of its income. I am saying this for the reason that the Tehnomont marina's decisions of the previous government and the competent ministry were placed in a completely unequal and discriminatory position against the rest of the marinas in Croatia. The technomont marina pays 14 times, I repeat 14 times Mr. Prime Minister, more compensation than any other marina in Croatia. This is what the IDS Representatives Club has already talked about in the Assembly, however, despite the ministry's strong promises that this problem will still exist after 5 years. I would like to remind you that the Competition Protection Agency has given its opinion that the Technological Company is in a subordinate position compared to other marinas for 8 years. I believe that if Technomont had the same position... it would have... the means to export and to improve our otherwise bad economy. So what does the government think, then, is that this company is in an equal position with the rest of the others... in the Republic of Croatia and that this injustice is finally resolved within a reasonable time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85786	It's Prime Minister Milanovic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85787	Your Honor, I find it a little complicated to answer a question in such a specific case that I'm not familiar with. Although I know about Technomont and I know they know about it all over the world. I don't know, when I was in New Zealand, in Oakland, so a police ship they were very proud of in the coast guard was built in Technomont. Therefore, it's not a company to underestimate. What kind of problems they face, I have to check. And as for... the economy and shipbuilding, and Technomont is also a shipyard, little, here it is, for the Ulnik we do everything to close the financial structure again and again to deliver ships in time to suppliers who have great needs and on the accuracy and accuracy of the delivery will depend on 10, 20 or 30 ships in the future. The government is also taking care of it and will be leading the future, of course within the rules of the European Commission which are rigorous, and we know that we have poured billions and billions of kunas of taxpayers into shipbuilding, for years and years, and that all those in the business cycle, co-operatives above all, management, various managements, shipyards, and 99% of the nation very little or nothing, paid for it. So I'm going to question what this is about and you're going to get a written answer because any more detailed answer at this point would be irresponsible than I am. Concessions are one of the most significant potential sources of income in Croatia, unused, especially... the coast, when it comes to oil and gas, I would still like to look back here, given that the topic of concessions is on one subject that is still on the public side, and it is about the exploration of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic. So oil and gas have been explored in the Adriatic for decades. Honestly, if the Adriatic was a closed sea, only the Croatian sea, I would be against oil and gas research. But he didn't. Fortunately, or unfortunately, we have neighbors who are very active there, and since oil, in the case of hawaria that has never been, does not travel with passport and visa, but simply goes to the other side, we are not left with this moment but to join those who are already dealing with it and to try to benefit from this generation and generations to come. Therefore, both in such things and in the things of the highway, Mr Maric spoke earlier, I call you to abstention, to rationality. It is not true that the government assumes the obligation and obligation to pay off the concessionaire because the concessionaire ultimately has a business interest in it. So no one would come here if they didn't see the possibility of profit and growth in traffic. And we see her, the question is, can we wait? And when I say that, I'm surprised the economist doesn't understand. Every political decision is economical and vice versa. You don't go into the project if he's politically destroying you, but if there's a possibility, you're going into the project. If highways were estimated at 100 billion euros 15 years ago, Croatia would not have moved out of place, but were estimated at several billion and there was a possibility. And that's that happy moment. All major political decisions are economic. Revolutions may have arisen for other reasons, but in the end they were always driven by business issues. In Boston, Boston tea party, the French Revolution, taxes, it's always a matter of money, so it's always politics. It's always politics. There, you'll get a written answer. That's as correct as I can tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85788	Commentary, colleague Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85789	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. I'll repeat, it's a company that has 600 employees and has never asked for a kuna from the state. A typical, as I would say, Istrian story. However, the only thing on Technomont was to apply... a concession full of the price defined by law. Everyone else had various forms of relief. We consider it discrimination and please personally, that you, personally, I mean, see what it is because we really think that someone in the past wanted Technomont not to accept such a price and there is no marina, but Technomont continued and still has that marina and then deserves to be treated like other marinas in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85790	Thank you. The next question will also be asked to the prime minister, and will be asked by counterpart Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85791	Mr. Prime Minister, I think that most of these announced changes in income tax, given that Croatian citizens will be given an increase in wages to a lesser or greater extent, I think that most of us, we all welcome, but what will reflect, will reflect on municipalities and cities whose income is one of the most important incomes and which will be reduced in revenue, will, in particular, be affected by the actual revenues of municipalities and cities in Slavonia, which, however, have very low capacity. For example, the city of Požega, where I live, will be reduced according to estimates by about 4 to 4.5 million kuna, which is 10 to 12% of the original income. Đakova for 4.5 million kuna, which is about 15% of the original revenues of the city's budget. So, question, is there any plan in which it will actually help the cities not to cut their income so drastically? In changing these income tax classes, the second question is what can we determine at this point the second part of the question that the recession in the Republic of Croatia is currently going on as World War II, so 6 years is a total recession of about 3 years of the previous HDZ government, 3 years of your current government. Do you have any ambition as Government in this last year's term of office, do you have any plans for systematic measures, monetary and fiscal policies to at least end your mandate in this last year with Croatia leaving recession or no plan at all, but we will begin to celebrate and mark the 30th of September as the Croatian day of recession?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85792	Thank you. The Prime Minister, Zoran Milanovic, answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85793	Croatia will emerge from the recession after being in it too long, and why it has been so long in recession and why it has entered the recession in one three ways slowly, slowly, slowly without perhaps some dramatic declines, unlike some countries, I have already tried to give an answer today that is actually conventional wisdom. There's no such thing as a big brain. The growth model has been spent and needs to be looked for a new one. We know which one it is, but it won't work overnight. Whoever thinks he can see overnight how it ended in 2004 until 2008. Spend it and don't ask who's gonna pay. It is the same political, not economic decision, which was the wrong direction in Croatia. Slovenia had a quarterly growth of 2.9% last year, but that's why last year it had a 5% decline in the same quarter. We fell in 2009 and since then we are actually in recession, even in 2011 was the year of recession. It stops next year but the growth rates of 6% or 5% or 4% we had are going to have a hard time soon and are not there in Europe. Those who have now achieved them fell 19% in one year at the beginning of the recession, which did not happen anywhere near Croatia. Your question regarding the amendment of the Income Tax Act has already been partially covered by Minister Lalovac in one of his previous responses and interventions. I can only tell you that we will make sure that those who remain without a certain amount of this calculation for the city of Požega about what I remember because I believe me through all the cities in Croatia went through and watched what about the financial impact of this measure that goes towards making citizens that over, that is that. Of course, Požega remains currently without several million kunas of original funds, through some other adjustments, and let's wait another week for a part of it and a significant part of it to try to make up for, but the measure is correct. However, a major change in me is going in the direction but it is a matter that we have to agree on and it does not go in one term, that the central state should be freed or resolved of all possible responsibilities that we have been carrying for years. The central government and the prime minister are responsible for everything from this microphone to every parquet in every school, it's not normal and it's a political burden, and no power or influence whatsoever. Why wouldn't the town of Pozega or the county of Požega-Slavon be responsible for that? Of course with much more money that will just move from the state budget to the local budgets but trust me with that money will always come 5% more commitments, it's a problem that local self-government doesn't have, and the central state lives it every day. It's a problem the city of Zagreb doesn't have. The city of Zagreb 5, 6, 8 billion are very easy to manage. We pay taxes, we pay large taxes to local self-government and the model is as in the whole world that any government that can lead a policy of competitiveness through tax policy and labour prices, and local self-government and regions through real estate and property tax. It's so everywhere and it's not for no reason. The communal fees we fixed as St. The letter can only be used for footsteps. I'm inclined to change that. You can answer for it yourself. Often they object to a communal fee I can't spend on anything else, spending whatever you want otherwise we'll call it. So that's where it's going to be taken care of, it's being raised to make up for it, but this is the direction we're going, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85794	A comment from counterpart Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85795	Just to be clear, when it comes to real estate tax, you've just talked about the interest tax on savings and the fact that it's not taxing the principal, so real estate tax is but money on the main savings tax, but money. So it's not a tax on useful value, it's a tax on the existence of savings. It's completely pandic to it as if you've introduced a tax on savings itself. I don't know how we don't understand each other at all, but we keep getting that real estate tax mantra back, and thank God for now we won't wait for it to be introduced. I'm not the one to remind you of that, you know, but the overall cumulative decline in GDP during this six-year recession period has reached almost 13%. Well, we're negative records. And when it comes to the success of measures of economic policy that we have not heard anything about again, look at the competitiveness of Croatia and Croatia's economies that are smaller today than at the beginning of your government's mandate in any research that is relevant, and especially not to mention what is happening with the competitiveness of the economy in the area of those poorest parts of Croatia, and here everyone belongs to Slavonia and Baranja where simply today our Croatian citizens find the only way out and young people are massingly leaving Croatia. I'm afraid in those numbers of those people who get lost between the Employment Service and the newly employed that those tens of thousands are actually our young people who have left Croatia and gone to work in Germany, Austria and abroad. And I'd like a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85796	Next question respected Tatjana Šimac-Bonacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85797	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I ask my question to the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Tihomir Jakovina. Dear Mr. Minister, how will Croatia protect the producers of mandarins and apples in view of the ban on exports to Russia? Can the state intervene with some national measures that this actually produced fruit does not fail? You've also been to the Council of Ministers recently where there are obviously no concrete measures for all productions yet. And that's why I'm asking you, I'm interested in your position and what the Ministry of Agriculture is doing on one side of the placements of goods produced since it's forbidden to export to Russia. And also in terms of possible excessive imports, since a large amount of fruit has emerged on the European market, that is, such goods that can be found in our stores at reduced prices. This, on the one hand, is good for citizens, however, is certainly not good for producers, i.e. the national economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85798	The Minister of Agriculture, respected Tihomir Jakovina, answers the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85799	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues, Šimac-Bonačić, a crisis that caused the ban on exports to the Russian Federation of products of agricultural, food products from the European Union is very complex and demanding. We are talking about nearly 12 billion euros in exports from European countries to the Russian market and some major exporting countries in Germany, the Netherlands, Poland, Scandinavian and Baltic countries already have... large direct costs and damages. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for agricultural and exporting Croatian products, unfortunately because of the relatively modest external trade with the Russian Federation, direct or direct damage will not go so great because the Republic of Croatia has marketed on the Russian market somewhere around 15.5 million euros a year, most of which actually fell to processing, children's food, spices and soups and other things, meaning Podravka which opened this demanding market was in fact the most affected with about 10.11 million, while the very export of fruit and vegetables on the Russian Federation market was relatively modest. When we talk about the Mandarins that come from your area and I appreciate and follow the concerns of the producers themselves, we need to be realistic and talk about numbers. In 2013, the production of mandarin was 40 thousand 317 tonnes of which we placed on the Russian market and exported exactly 3 thousand 307 tonnes. This year we expect, given that the good year is a stronger breed, but I am sure of everything that our agricultural producers, or buyers, are doing, because we have quality... We have a product that can be competitive on the market, the internal market of the entire European Union and for exports to the region where we are otherwise present. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that exports of about 8% that were on the Russian market will not be felt directly, so directly. We are talking about measures that we have taken since the first day of the regulation as the Ministry of Agriculture and this is a crisis that neither Croatian farmers nor farmers nor farmers of Europe have caused but is a political crisis, we are actually working to solve a single crisis which is the problem of the entire European market or agricultural producers. At working meetings that are weeks, sometimes daily on the council but also on the commission, a first set of measures has been adopted that have actually prevented market destabilization. We are talking about intervention measures of buying-in for fruit and vegetables exported to the Russian market over 50%, meaning seasonal fruit that cannot be stored, which cannot be processed, apples, pears, table fruit, tomatoes, cucumbers, pumpkins, flowers and something that should thus be bought through the measures of withdrawal from the free distribution market, green harvesting, fruit harvesting or the like. The value of the measure was just 125m euros to 160m euros, as it included both peaches and nectarines. And it's accessible and it's possible to benefit our farmers. What we have fought for at technical meetings is that such measures cannot be implemented only on producer groups, organisations, or associated agricultural producers, because this tradition is still not sufficiently developed with us and with some other European Union countries. When we talk about the Mandarin, my associates, the professional services that have been working on these meetings since day one, we have indicated the need to extend the regulation itself to include both agrums and citrus even though their exports to the Russian market were only 19%. They are new delegated regulations prepared, so we have a quota of 7 thousand 900 tonnes of mandarin, of 1050 tonnes of apple and about 3 thousand for other fruit and vegetables. It will be voted on 23rd and by the end of the year, i.e. by the end of the quota itself, can be applied. I'm sorry that, in fact, because of some of the cheap political points and from this constituencies, they say it wasn't done as well or as well as it was done. And especially when our EU parliamentarians do so, so I think it is in fact a shameless deception of the Croatian public when fellow Petitir, who declares that she has actually solved the problem of the Mandarin and the inclusion of this intervention measure. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85800	Thank you. To the next question respected Vesna Scare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85801	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I will refer my question to the Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, I'm giving you a question from the past that has a repercussion of today, but I'm also afraid of the future if it doesn't get rid of it. A month and a half ago, the European Commission published a report on the analytical review of compliance of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legal course of the European Union for Chapter 23 on 29 July. Justice and Fundamental Rights and Chapter 24. Justice, freedom and security. According to the Commission, the procedural legal framework for conducting investigations is particularly satisfactory in war crimes cases. In particular, it turns out that the famous law we discussed here in the Parliament, which caused major problems in Croatia, is therefore the Law on jurisdiction and the organisation of state authorities in the war crimes procedure that Serbia adopted in 2003, that it has practically received the European Commission's green light at this stage. I will only remind that Serbia has practically extended the area of criminal law and the jurisdiction of its judicial authorities for crimes committed on the territory of all republics of the former Yugoslavia, regardless of the nationality of the perpetrator or victims, which is practically one unprecedented example in parallel law. Indeed, it is not known in the European Union that a state would extend its criminal authority to the jurisdiction of other sovereign states. And now my question is, we have had time and we have been introduced, we have received this report as a member of the European Union, why we have not responded to it or what you intend to do to protect Croatian citizens They were politicians a few years ago, but they could be any other citizen. [[/Intruder Stazic: Time. Thank you.]] What do you think you're gonna do to protect them in this case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85802	Thank you. Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic answers the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85803	The Commission has spoken, and we are waiting for an action plan, and then we will manifest ourselves to it. This is about the Commission's procedure for chapters 23 and 24 in the negotiations of the Republic of Serbia on membership in the European Union. As far as practice, or doctrines regarding the jurisdiction of citizens from other jurisdictions are concerned, it is a completely common matter, which does not mean that what Serbia is doing I approve. It's a completely common thing, so it's a kind of jurisdiction that started widely in the world, so they kept it where they've already kept it. So it's nothing new, the only question is whether it's justified. If you remember, an indictment has been brought against Sharon in Antwerp or Brussels, it has nothing to do with Antwerp and Brussels, against the former Israeli prime minister. It's universal jurisdiction, but what Serbia is doing is a little unusual. Therefore, we will have a very precise and cold and focused eye on it because we simply have a political problem with it. I think I made myself clear. So Serbia negotiates, Serbia has benchmarks, proposes action plans, we look and normally we cannot allow ourselves, by being very correct towards them, to drag us by the nose. So every time something like this happens, if it happens, believe that we will react, no matter who it's about. It's about principles. So Serbia took a little bit of a wider personal jurisdiction there. It can only be done under certain conditions. It's a political decision again. It is a judicial policy, so someone in Serbia has decided at one point that they will, and this has an impact on the relations of the states, and especially in a situation where we still haven't received an answer to the question of where over a thousand are missing. That answer cannot be sought in Pakistan, only in Belgrade. That's what we're gonna look for because it's gotta exist there.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85804	A commentary, a respected Vesna Skara Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85805	Well, here's Mr. Prime Minister, I've got to fix you up here. The universal jurisdiction has only... people, and what Serbia has now practically done with this law, that it can arrest people and seek the responsibility of people who are Croatian citizens. Every day, or not every day, but very often, if you ask your Minister of Justice or if you ask the State's Attorney's office or if you ask the Minister of the Interior, there are orders that you as a Government react to in a way that you don't pass on to them, you don't answer them, but I don't think that's just the way it is. How long will it go like that? That's not good. So as a member of the European Union, Croatia has clear instruments and opportunities to finally put such a law on it and to force or convince, or however you wish, and not to violate any relations of normalisation, it simply indicates to Serbia that this law cannot have in its legislation that would get the green light in the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85806	A new question, the esteemed Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85807	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I refer the question to the Minister of Justice Mr Orsat Milenić. So just over a year ago, the Croatian Parliament passed the amended Criminal Law. These amendments also introduce the possibility of imposing criminal penalties on the spot, with a specific or appropriate discount. When you presented this law, you said that changes to the Code of Breaking will affect the inflow of infringements, or that it will be better to pay the penalty. Now, after a year, I'm asking you what the results of applying the amended Criminal Code are, or whether you're satisfied with its effects.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85808	Minister of Justice Orsat Milenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85809	Thank you very much, highly respected MPs for asking. So over a period of one year it's relatively short but so these are the first indicators we have. The law actually obtained all the effects we expected, even more than that. So if we look under one structure at what we wanted, we wanted to relieve the courts under one, two to increase the charge but not what I always say for filling the state budget, but because criminal punishment has its purpose of dissuasion means that the offense is not done. Everyone would be luckiest if there were no violations, if there wasn't a budget to be filled at all, that's how it is. So at this point in the first year, the High Violent Court of 49 and slightly less cases, inflows mean almost 50% decrease in inflows. That's the first indicator, so there's an open capacity to solve all objects faster. The drop in the flow of all the misdemeanor courts is about 33%, so I'm talking about increasing capacity again. We will certainly talk about this when these reorganization laws are done because they are also dealt with by the Criminal Courts. In the state administration, say the Ministry of the Interior, 126% increased on the spot. But what does that mean? That means discharging the procedure. I'm not talking about absolute amounts again. I'm talking about us fighting for a state and a society where the law is respected in the first place. The punishment she's got to pay for. Why? Because it's spoken. Because someone committed a crime. So it's not relevant whether she's tall or not. She has to follow right now, she has to be paid. I'm saying there's an increase of 126% compared to this. The next thing you know, there's been a lot of talk about us having a relatively unsuccessful billing system. So when it came to paying the fine, we had about 12 percent over the years. So it was one of the great absurdities. An entire apparatus of the state gets hired, and then you get to only charge 12% of the fine. I mean, just the cost I'm going to tell you an example, the cost of, say, misdemeanors, the cost to be allocated from the budget is about 225 million kunas. So that system has already remained at 12% charging plus, say, the Ministry of Internal Affairs or the Ministry of Finance in its segment or port, it doesn't matter. So, we've hired it all and then what? Then we sent a message, you know we gave you a ticket but we won't charge you. So we went with that program. Now relatively, so the second half of 2013 is 16%, and the first half is 33% in terms of payability over the measured period because we introduced another way of charging and we gave citizens the opportunity to actually pay immediately at discounts or two thirds in a given time. What might also be an important indicator, because there is no repression in the first place. We are now this repressive part of the bill, so when charged through the FINA fell below 30%. So the rest is paid voluntarily. So these are all the effects we have now. Of course we'll keep track. We've got a register here. Unfortunately, there are 30s and some thousands of citizens in the register of unpaid fines. So these are people who, when they get to the counter, won't be able to register their car because they didn't pay the fine. Of course, they get a payment card, they can handle it and move on. We've got that one percent, but he's set up there. So it's a working mechanism, giving good results. But right now I can tell you wherever we spot that we can fix some things we'll go on with it. But what we have outlined and what you have here in the vast majority vote is coming true. I'll give you all the exact data, because you know that now I'm not saying how much it is. I don't know the inspection, this, what, etc. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85810	Thank you. The question will now be asked by the vice president of the House, the esteemed Željko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85811	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I refer the question to the Prime Minister, Mr Milanovic. Mr. Prime Minister, you said yourself earlier that we treated the Republic of Serbia very correctly and that they were pulling us by the nose. The fact is that while Serbia, on the one hand, is seeking support for EU accession, on the other hand, does not necessarily Europeanly do everything to suppress, divide, fully assimilate Croats in Serbia. The latest example is the gift of Serbian President Nikolic's textbook on Cyrillic Bunjevci who of course never wrote with Cyrillic, all on the trail of those great Serbian efforts since the 930s when the Bunjevs were declared Serbs of Catholic faith, until Milosevic's 90s regime, which promoted some invented special rebel nation. However, what I want to ask is why you, to such an insolence against the minority rights of the Croats in Serbia, answered very timidly, let's say that it is not exactly correct. Why didn't you react to what the patriarch of the Serbian Orthodox Church spoke to Irinaj in Pakrac, Croatia, in a place where he was in '91 on March 1st. where Serbian terrorists took over the police station and placed the municipality on the building of the flag of the Republic of Serbia and the Chetnik flag and then by armed attack on Croatian police officers who came to help their colleagues in actual aggression against Croatia. In this Pakrac from which the rebel Chetniks kidnapped Dr. Ivan Schreter, beastly tortured and killed him only because he was a Croat, where the patriarch of the Serbian Orthodox Church who came from Belgrade said the media had claimed that 19000 innocent children had been murdered here, and added that the tragedy was greater that the Christian hand had cut off many of their heads and called on the Catholics to show some tears and remorse. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] Why didn't any of the government react to that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85812	Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic answers the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85813	So perhaps you should ask your party's president, who as Minister of the Interior, was a finger and nail in a functional sense with people who at the time of the war were spokesmen of that policy of Belgrade. You know, it never occurred to me to accuse him of betraying national interests or being weak, but it was simply a creative policy. So remember who was Serbia's interior minister back then. But it's a partner today. Well, you know best how some things change. I have to live with it. We could also question the responsibility of some people currently at the top of the Serbian government that they were doing in the 1990s. Would you suggest that? You suggest that, because your rhetoric is going that way. I didn't say anything weak. I said it wasn't the correct thing to do. I'll say it now. But you know how I feel and what I think. It's a context. You understand that. So, the sword’s sword may not have to die, but it will be cut upon. We will express our position in the negotiations and in the Benchmarks on Serbian laws, on the intensities of these laws, we will hear our position. But not by plowing us at it, because we are quite principled and firm, but not of great words, but of no works. Well, yours, I'm telling you, your party president was what he painted himself and hugged people whose role in the '90s was the least said isn't exactly purest. But the man had a state responsibility, at that level. I don't know, fighting regional organised crime was doing his job. Did someone attack him because of us? He didn't attack him. It's just how you do it. But after all, Croatia is an EU member and Serbia is not. Croatia is, with all its problems, still twice as developed as Serbia and has better potential than Serbia. Serbia has its problems, Croatia has its problems and its chances which are huge and great, and you are reasonable and reasonable and evaluate when it is time to say something. Because this way, we could open up a lot of questions in Croatia about the war and the war and the pre-war journey of some people in the '90s. Is that what you want? I want to hear it from you. Building a civil society, a democratic community, culture is a long-term and painful process. And he is still going on in Croatia. We recognize ourselves, we give ourselves, and we work on it because we believe it, and you must finally define what your goal is, whether every time you're in opposition you're in trouble and when you're in power to pretend that nothing happened. This is where I hold your position as a party and as individuals inconsistencies, inconclusive and calculant. That's not right, here. So this job that we all do in our own way is also a constant responsibility. Serbia doesn't pull us by the nose because it's not in a position to pull us by the nose, it can't, it's just too weak for that. Not because we are a powerful or regional force, but we are in this situation. But I will never act in the way Slovenian politics treated Croatia for a time because I consider it below the level of Croatian dignity if they can be as poetic and inspired as Mr Maric would put it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85814	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85815	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I have to admit, at least I'm amazed at what you've been able to say in your answer. So you managed to answer my question why you didn't react to the ecluent things that are contrary to European standards, to international standards to answer that it's Hagueish. What an interesting attitude! You didn't, of course, answer me why you didn't react to it, not in any way, with one word at all. It is quite unacceptable, in fact, that you have already responded that, for example, you have not answered why the Government did not find it necessary to send any comments to the Presidency of the Council of the European Union on the content of the criteria and recommendations related to Chapters 23 and 24, you have not responded at all. You didn't send as a government. Therefore, you did not answer the same question. And of course, we can use verbal flashes here as much as we want, but the truth remains, you didn't react to what you were supposed to react to, which is what your position obliges you to do, and it's absolutely unacceptable that those who ask you why you didn't do it are accusing them of being tickers, I don't know what words. This is not a way of communication and you will not even be able to justify yourself in front of the Croatian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85816	Before we continue to ask questions, one notice. We have three questions and 3 answers left, and then we will do our colleagues and colleagues immediately before the break of the first item of the agenda Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. So now I ask all MPs from their clubs, from their offices, the office is slowly headed to the assembly so that we can do this first item of the agenda quality. The right to ask a parliamentary question is now being brought to the esteemed Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85817	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I ask the question of the Minister of Culture, Mrs Zlatar Violic. When a Republic, such as the Republic of Croatia, with 4.5 million inhabitants entering into the integration of 500 million inhabitants, which is the EU, culture and cultural policy and cultural policy management left to national states in the national domain should be one of the top priorities of each government. This is because such a smart policy is safeguarded on the one hand by the cultural identity of people, space, citizens, cultural and artistic creation, and it also captures the possibility to contribute directly or indirectly from the culture sector with almost 5% of the contribution to GDP, which is the case in some European countries, and to achieve almost 5% of the employment in the culture sector. Respected ministers with the withdrawal of projects from the EU The Ministry of Culture is late or not successful, it is completely wrong to set the budget of the Ministry of Culture, which is just based on stimulating consumption and manifestations without opening new programmes as an aid to those applying themselves for EU funds. In addition, it should be said that the culture budget has never been smaller in either absolute or... The percentages. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the same time, there are no solutions to necessity, no archives being built. Kerestinec stands, Croatian historical museum. The situation in the institutions in culture is extremely bad, we can see it every day in the media. There's almost no theater where there's no conflict. We almost don't have a situation that we've had a series of scandals about certain appointments of leading people without talking about the competence of the assistant staff at the Ministry of Culture who failed to offer such programs. Why, Madam Minister, do you allow such a situation and do nothing to solve these problems?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85818	The Minister of Culture, respected Andrea Zlatar Violic, answers the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85819	Dear Mr. Representative, thank you for the question that has been drawn up from several levels, so I will start with your first part, as regards European funds and co-financing of Croatian projects from European funds. In the first row there are such as clear new programmes, a creative Europe that is united by both former media programmes and a former culture programme from which more than 600 thousand euros have been withdrawn in the first 6 months on behalf of Croatian budget users. To a greater extent, I must say that these, those who have succeeded in obtaining funds, are now not only parts, otherwise more educated for the withdrawal of civil society funds in culture, but also institutions themselves. Secondly, in positions within the ministry itself, there are reserved funds that have been completely spent on drawing up documentation for a number of projects that are about to be financed behind those lines that are so far known and approved. Both from the lines concerning 63 64 revitalisation of cultural heritage for the purpose of sustainable development, cultural tourism, social infrastructure, and also from the programme already mentioned by Minister Mrsic, the social programme where around 7m euros were allocated precisely to encourage young people and to encourage the development of cultural infrastructure through social cultural centres in small towns and small municipalities. What I can say is that, in the process of applying to the European Funds, there are actually large cities lagging behind and we have one..., we have a large number, currently about 47 projects are positively assessed according to our criteria, the criteria of the Croatian Government and its bodies for the list of European funds, but these are in total, I agree, perhaps smaller projects at the amount. As for the investments themselves, in Croatia, the Croatian History Museum is the 7th priority of all strategic projects in Croatia. His realization is slow, but since the building was bought in '98. I think that the fact that we have succeeded in a new project, redesigning a new construction and that we have found a partner, however encouraging an act. I wouldn't be impressed by the media statements of the state of the institutions. You know well that cultural institutions and cultures as a whole are always a place of conflict, always places of different interests and that's good. So it's not a place where you look for space, where you look for consent, it's not a place where it's a monologue, it's always a place where it's a dialogue, not just a part of a dialogue, but a half-log. Here, of the 4 national theatres larger in 3 are now finished or are near the end, Split is at the end, the appointment of individuals, after a crisis that lasted half a year or a year, but according to the results of the number of visitors bought..., it is clear that our citizens, regular visitors did not fall under that story, everywhere there is a crisis, nowhere will be anything good. I'd especially like to point out one fact and I'll be done with it. As for the situation, i.e. the perspective of the future, the great interest of small local communities to have their museums, their heritage collections, and to make culture as accessible as possible, and in one way in this ministry's term, we have bowed to not only supporting the largest and strongest, not to say... projects but to go to every local community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85820	Thank you. Commentary, dear Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85821	Dear Madam Minister, the Croatian History Museum had all the papers, it could have started three years ago. An opportunity has been missed for... Croatian culture to be further exposed and presented. Just look at the increase in representation costs in the Ministry of Culture compared to 2011. A administrative court has called about hiring by party preferences in the case of Osijek archives. The court also dropped laws related to the Dubrovnik Walls, laws that you proposed on behalf of the ministry because of party membership along with the Mayor of Dubrovnik. In this term, in 3 years in the Croatian Parliament, except for one single law, we had only amendments and additions to the laws of the cultural sector. Almost no new law, except for the foundation Croatian House or Croatian House, for which we have not seen a single project before, and has provided twice as much funding as almost all archaeological research programmes, as well as archival activities. The archive in Kerestinco stands, which is a legal and constitutional obligation to store archive material. Fully neglecting heritage, look at the programs of the Croatian Restaurant Institute, never less programs, never less funds, never more leaders who can't sign anything. As for the completion of museums and projects, we believe that it will soon be Vukedol, I am aware that the Metkovic museum is going and that's good. I must also point out that it has never been smaller... for culture. As far as the media strategy is concerned, it's been announced for 3 years, we've changed... and one media law, for HRT, for... we've changed everything, and 3 years the strategy hasn't been passed. And now it is not yet in the public debate with the fact that over the summer segmentary parts of the strategy were released in precisely targeted presses which were sort of analyzed and praised before the public debate. And that's not a good way to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85822	Last question. Dear Joseph Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85823	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I ask my question to the Prime Minister, Zoran Milanovic. Mr. President, we live in a time when the current government doesn't choose what to sell. It's all for sale. After Croatia's insurance, failed sales of the Croatian Post Bank, Croatia's citizenship, ports, highways,..., hundreds of properties, naked island with its... past. Hundreds of thousands of shares of the company, 20 million square meters of state property. They say in... 5 square meters per capita. For the government expected, for the citizens, the fraud. One and only economic policy that we have witnessed over the past year can be expressed in one sentence. Sell everything you can, tightly... hold the losers, and sell those who have a product, the market and make a profit. That's when bankruptcy gets safer. One such company is the Imperial Rab, the SDP government has decided to sell it. For 8 years, your comrades at the local level, all kinds of antennas, the pieces were ultimatically looking for the ultimate job stockholders. They poured the passwords, Rab to the rabbis, Imperial to the rabbis, when they became ministers they forgot everything, they forgot the workers and where they came from. Now the Parole Imperial is to everyone but the workers. We are even more concerned with the complete secrecy of this company. For six months now, none of the relevant and competent people have wanted to give information to the public, to the media, to the citizens exactly how much the offer arrived in the first round. I ask you, three weeks until the end of the second round, are you as Prime Minister ready to stop this non-transparent sale of Imperial Rab or are you going to sell it, and thus the fates of 280 employees, dozens of those who are in business with the Imperial, thousands of those who depend on that backbone of the rap economy? When no one knows whether or not you who are the first-round bidders are just you...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85824	Time. Thank you. Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic answers the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85825	Your Honor, I am not familiar with the details of privatization or capitalisation of Imperial Rab. What I do know is that it's a state-owned hotel company that works solidly but which is underinvested so it makes little profits, I know it from the scene. If that's enough for a Rab whose name you're so loud and proud of, then say it. So the rap destination is such a 3.5 star. It's not about the fate of people who work, there's work for twice as many people, those who work and more. Since there's no money in the state budget, I'm asking you from which party are you coming from? Isn't your private property party advocating, free entrepreneurship, or am I confusing some things? It's a procedure that's as transparent as any of the procedures we've ever conducted, and... we've led them a little bit and sold them a little. Public companies earn profits, a private partner entered majority in Croatia insurance, in international competition paid it expensively, some say and overpaid it, it is a Croatian company, it is known which company, it offered a lot, competitors were from Poland, for example. There in high politics there was no lack of interest in the topic. It's been sold to our people, they've got a receipt. And I can hardly think of anything other than Cooper going to sell where 20 years of nothing was done. This government has prepared documentation and is still working on it, but at the very end, nothing has been done. The Imperial Rab is one of the tourist companies, it was exposed during the war, there was an ugly word, there were exiles there, there were our people should have gotten out of it. So they got away with it, but for years now, it's stagnating on a positive zero and a little bit more. Otherwise I know people from Imperial Rab and I have a correct opinion about them, but that's not enough for Rab, it needs more money. Where'd that money come from, will HDZ give it to you? There's no money in the state budget for that. Therefore, the state does not have to leave the hotel companies completely, but when we talk about a hotel company, I see no reason for the Croatian government to run the Empire. The ACI, though, does not pay for expensive watches. The ACI is that, to always remain present, but the Imperial Rab does not. No, I don't. Therefore, quality investors from the sector should be sought, the destination should be raised. Rab has much greater potential. Like you, they're suffocating potentials like that. And I'm glad that at the very beginning of the privatisation process or in part privatisation, you're raising so much dust and noise because that means there's no way of happening, and otherwise there's no way, but there's no way now there's no way that some kind of freak or dog thing like that happened when HDZ was doing it and when it was later funded and the party that was found by the verdict, you forgot that and that's the facts. So when it comes to ACI and when it comes to Imperial Rab and every other state-owned company, everything is public. The postal bank, here's the other day the National Bank said that the Post Bank must be urgently recapitalised with 400 million kuna. Those losses came from the administration set up by the former government, we didn't even change those people. Four hundred million kuna and you sell it to someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85826	Comment, dear Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85827	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I expected you to express your willingness to stop this. Why? Only between the first and second rounds in two months is the estimated value of the company rising from 100 to over 250 million kuna. Is that enough? To talk about the secrecy of a process in which even the Prime Minister knows nothing about who the state's assets are being sold to. Is that enough? How is it possible to sell something publicly, and no one has a clue and can't get information about who offered in the circuit, which are companies, which are people so that the public can check it out. And in the second round, only those who were in the first round can come forward. How do we know who answered in the first round and could be in second? These are the questions you need to answer. What kind of prosperity is that? Yeah, that's the question. You've been yelling about stockholders the whole time you've been in opposition, now you can't even get 14 months of regulation that regulates it, you don't want workers to run the companies they've been saving for 50 years. If we, president, will come to you in a year like the MID workers in Rijeka, let us know, we're hungry. It's a story, and that's what makes this nontransparentity of yours possible. And to finish, in 2000 this island bears the name "Felix Arba", Happy Island, unfortunately many of you have been unhappy in these three years, obviously we are now in line. And I'm going to give you a message of citizens from a recent gathering of your friend, good friend Paynovic, Imperial and Rab, let him find a new toy to play with, sell his property if he has and leave ours alone, and he's still there for a few months. If you care about citizens and their fate stop this while it's time, in three weeks it'll be too late. [[Intruder Stazic: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85828	Did I see good of my colleague Bačić that you're the one who took up the board of injuries to the Rules of Procedure? I will only warn you before you start warning of parliamentary practice and the provisions of our Rules of Procedure, until now it has not happened that someone would highlight the breach of the Rules of Procedure during the current morning but to hear about what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85829	Mr. Vice President, Article 232 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure, in which the speaker does not stick to the subject, but when answering the question of an individual representative, is confronted with other MPs to answer their previous questions, so he does not stick to the subject. So I'd like to ask the Prime Minister when he's already calling for that honesty that he... Yes, he has, to answer the Croatian public as he was. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruding Stazić: A colleague of Bačić, a colleague of Bačić!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85830	Comrade Bačić, I've turned you off, they can't hear you, you can't hear Bačić, you have no right to set up... Question, you had to sign up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is pure, slow, this is pure abuse. And if you're going to determine what the Prime Minister and the Minister will answer questions, then suggest an amendment to the Rules of Procedure, and we'll put it in the Rules of Procedure that you write and write questions and answers, so the ministers will just read them because you just suggested it. Before moving on to the final parliamentary issue, the last call for MPs to give instructions in the hall. The last question will be asked by the respected Damir Roman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85831	Dear Vice President, I refer my question to the Minister of Agriculture, Tihomir Jakovina. Dear Minister Jakovina, I would like to know when the tender for measure P will be launched as part of the Rural Development Programme through which the damages in the flooded areas of the County plantation, i.e. the cwelferium, will be financed and resolved primarily. Given that there is an insufficient amount of information in the media or that people do not have the right information, I am interested in what will be financed through this particular tender and whether it will be a simple procedure or require some additional paperwork. We are all aware from that part of eastern Croatia that people in this area are becoming more nervous and waiting for everything they have lost in the recent floods that hit that end in May, which is why I believe that, following the publication of the tender, this procedure should be as simple as possible and your people in the ministry and people on the ground, therefore from the local administration, available to meet such requirements.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85832	The Honorable Minister of Agriculture Tihomir Jakovina answers the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85833	The Rural Development Programme of the Republic of Croatia is under plan for formal adoption or adoption by the European Commission in July of this year and we expect, as for the other members of the European Union, a deadline or final response from the Commission to the conclusion of the 15th of the following year. As part of the programme itself, we have 16 measures with a series of sub-measures. One of the measures that is extremely important in view of the disaster and the frequent natural disasters, especially the disaster we had in County is in May, measure P with its sub-measures, which actually, sub-measure P2 enables the restoration of production potentials damaged by elemental measures and disasters. The measure itself includes and enables, in fact, the recovery of agricultural land or the potential of agricultural land caused by disaster, the construction of agricultural buildings, buildings, farms and the like, repairs, the purchase of new or used agricultural machinery or equipment, the acquisition and planting of multi-annual crops, the purchase of basic herds, or... which suffered in the disaster itself and the overall cost of 10% of the eligible amounts of investments in the agricultural economy alone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The affected agricultural potential of the entire family economy must be at least 30%, the conditions to be respected in order to apply to the tender are that the competent public legal authority has declared a disaster or a elemental accident, that it has been submitted, that only the family holding has submitted a request for support for the current year, that the user has basic certificates to prove that domestic animals have been entered in the unique register of domestic animals or the central list of breeding flocks, the central list of queens and the like, that agricultural land has been entered into the ARCOD and can be accessed. When you asked me during the competition before we had formal confirmation from the Commission, i.e. at the Government, and I adopted a rural development programme in intensive contacts we agreed with the Commission that we could go to the competitions already during this year according to individual measures and finance from the funds provided to us in the rural development programme so that we expect to call this tender for measure P2 by the end of this month. At the end of this week, we actually have another meeting of the Monitoring Committee, which also includes representatives of the European Commission, where they will actually meet again, to check the selection criteria that are in the protocols and procedures of the implementation of the measures themselves, and after that we are going to call the competition. What you have said and I support, not only can we but we must actually also as a ministry and advisory service and employees of agencies that are on the ground as well, or at least hope that professional services, county or local self-government units are involved and be timely service to our agricultural producers who have suffered in this disaster, and in that part I am sure that almost a thousand family economies, as far as we now have according to assessments and analyses, the number of economies that will be able to apply to this measure and these EU budgets will have timely and information and help for the competition itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85834	My colleagues and colleagues, I find that in accordance with the provision of Article 144. The Rules of Procedure of the Government and the Ministry did not provide any answers within the prescribed time limit to 32 parliamentary questions, so I would ask, in accordance with the said Rules of Procedure, that delivery be answered within 8 days. I now thank the Prime Minister, the Ministers and the Ministers. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the current morning is over. We're moving on to 1. Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission I ask the member of the Mandate-Immunity Commission Mrs Nadic Jelash to submit a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85836	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 42nd session held on 16 September 2014, the written request of Commissioner Marin Lovrić-Merzel, submitted on 3 September 2014, to the President of the Croatian Parliament on the conduct of the parliamentary office, since on 28 August 2014, she ceased to act as the mayor of Sisak-Moslavina County, thus ending her duties which she deems incompatible with the conduct of the parliamentary duties. The commission found that Marini Lovric-Merzel, elected from the list of Croatian SDP, HNS-Liberal Democrats, IDS and HSU in VI, was at rest. the election unit started on 22 December 2011 due to the incompatibility of the duty referred to in Article 9. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament and that on the same day, her deputy Zoran Vasic began acting as deputy representative in the Croatian Parliament. As Marina Lovrić-Merzel complies with Article 13(1). The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament made a written request to the President of the Croatian Parliament within the legal period of time the commission found that the conditions laid down by law were met and that the rest of the parliamentary term of office of Marina Lovrić-Merzel ceased on the eighth day from the day of the application, and the same day ended the conduct of its deputy, Zoran Vasic, on the same day. Without discussion, the Mandate-Immunity Commission shall be based on Article 13. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously, so with 8 votes in favour, it proposes to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the suspension of the MP's term of office and the termination of the parliamentary post. On 11 September 2014, the term of office of representative Marina Lovric-Merzel ceased. Deputy representative Zoran Vasic on 11 September 2014 ceases to act as representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85837	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85838	The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 42nd session held on 16 September 2014 the request of the attorney-in-chief of private prosecutor Milenko Mikulic of Biograd at sea for the authorisation of the conduct of criminal proceedings against Branko Hrg for the offence of the slander referred to in Article 149(2). Penalty law. Branko Hrg is a representative of VII. calls on the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office has been terminated and shall not be open or prosecuted without a decision of the Croatian Parliament. The Commission shall be responsible for the implementation of this Regulation and shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously, so with 8 votes in favour, proposes to the Croatian Parliament a decision that reads as follows: "During the term of the parliamentary term, the authorisation for the conduct of criminal proceedings against Agent Branko Hrg is denied in the private lawsuit of Prosecutor Milenko Mikulic of Biograd at sea for the crime of slander referred to in Article 149(2). Criminal law on the suit brought to the municipal court in Koprivnica under number 4K-160/14-3. Let me read the explanation. The Commission took a principled position that, at the request of the State Attorney's Office as an independent and independent judicial body which is required to act against the perpetrators of criminal and other criminal offences, it is necessary to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings. However, in the case of private prosecutors as well as in cases where the injured person as a subsidiary prosecutor becomes a state lawyer because the lawyer found that there is no basis for the initiation or conduct of the criminal proceedings, the commission will propose to the Croatian Parliament a denial of the authorisation. The position of the commission is that the Institute of Immunity has been established in order to protect the dignity of the duties, not in order to protect the representatives as an individual, and the conduct of the criminal proceedings, as well as any actions that would have to be taken in connection with this could make it impossible for the representatives to act in his capacity, thereby affecting the work of the Croatian Parliament. The criminal proceedings may also be initiated after the end of the term of office, since the statute of limitations does not run until there are reasonable reasons why the proceedings cannot be carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85839	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We're gonna take a break by 3:00. We will continue at 3 p.m. With the Internal Affairs Minister's report on police operations in 2013. Thank you. We continue with the vote. We discussed the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the termination of the MP's pensions and the termination of the term of office of the deputy representative. In line with the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, I am voting on the following decision: "On 11 September 2014, the term of office of representative Marin Lovrić Merzel, deputy representative Zoran Vasic, ceases to act on 11 September 2014. Please vote. I'm asking for a result. 105 votes for, 3 against and 8 abstentions. We move to the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the request to grant authorisation for the conduct of criminal proceedings against Branko HRg, a representative in the Croatian Parliament. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, I am voting on the following decision: "During the term of the parliamentary term of office, the authorisation for the conduct of criminal proceedings against Agent Branko Hrg on the private suit of Prosecutor Milenko Mihulic from Biograd na Moru is denied because of the defamation offence referred to in Article 149(2). The criminal law on a lawsuit brought to the municipal court in Koprivnica under number 4K-160/14/3." Please vote. I'm asking for a result. 113 votes in favour, 1 against and 1 abstention. I now call upon the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, Mrs. Gordan Sobol, to submit new reports that have come to the table today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85841	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 43rd session held on 26 September 2014 the written notice of Andrej Plenkovic that he had begun his term in the European Parliament on 1 July 2014 and that his duties as representative in the Croatian Parliament had ceased with that day. This fulfils the conditions for the termination of the parliamentary term of office of Representative Andrej Plenkovic as prescribed in Article 10(2) and (3). The law on the election of members in the European Parliament from the Republic of Croatia, and his deputy, Nada Murganic, continues to act as deputy deputy MP. The mandate-immunity commission unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament the decision of 1 July 2014 to be taken by the representative Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85842	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. 115 votes in favour. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85843	The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 43rd session held on 26 September 2014 the written notice of Davor Ivo Stier that his term of office in the European Parliament began on 1 July 2014 and that his duties in the Croatian Parliament ceased with that day. The mandate-immunity committee has established that the conditions for the termination of the parliamentary term of office of Representative Davor Ivo Stier as prescribed in Article 10(2) and (3) have been met. The law on the election of members to the European Parliament from the Republic of Croatia, and his deputy Tomislav Klaric continues to act as deputy MPs. The mandate-immunity commission unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament the decision of 1 July 2014 to be taken by MP Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85844	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the decision has been reached unanimously by 116 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85845	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work. Before we go to the polls, one piece of information. Today's vote will be held by handlifting because there was a system failure on Friday 26 September due to a factory failure on built-in equipment and equipment manufacturers came to Zagreb to remove the malfunction. Since the plenary session is under way, work on the system is carried out in the evening and night hours, and the system will be repaired and its full functionality is expected by next week when we will have a continuation of the session. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day I propose to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to supplement the agenda with the point Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion of this item in the agenda? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda has been completed by this point. And we will immediately move to - Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission Please President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission Mrs. Gordan Sobol to submit a report. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85846	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its 44th session held on 1 October 2014 the request of the State Attorney's Office, USKOK sent from 26 September this year through the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia also since 26 September 2014 to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of continuing criminal proceedings against Marin Lovrić-Merzel, a representative in the Croatian Parliament, on grounds of reasonable suspicion that she committed several crimes. Marina Lovrić-Merzel is a representative of VII. invites the Croatian Parliament and based on 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office is terminated and shall not be in a position to initiate or conduct criminal proceedings without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against it. Without discussion, the Mandate-Immunity Commission is based on Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament to take the following decision: "It is hereby approved to continue the criminal proceedings against MP Marin Lovrić-Merzel, at the request of the State Attorney's Office, as of 26 September of this year, by the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia as of 26 September of this year, on the grounds of reasonable suspicion that she has committed offences of abuse of position and authority referred to in Article 291(1). Penalty, criminal offences of counterfeiting the official or business documents referred to in Article 279(1). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Penalty, misappropriation of positions and powers referred to in Article 291(1) and (2) Penalty, criminal offence of abuse of position and authority referred to in Article 337(1) and (2) Penalty, criminal offence of abuse of position and authority referred to in Article 337(1) and (4) Penalty Act, criminal offence of taking bribes as referred to in Article 347(1). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Penal Code." The mandate-immunity committee decided to grant authorisation to continue the criminal proceedings against the representative in the Croatian Parliament of the Republic of Croatia, Lovrić-Merzel, at the request of the State Attorney's Office, as an independent and independent judicial body authorised and obliged to act against the perpetrators of criminal offences and other criminal offences in order to carry out its duties without delay, which is the basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia's day in charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85847	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Please determine the quorum. The session is attended by 101 MPs and a representative, we can decide. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the decision was reached unanimously with 101 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85848	Dear colleagues and colleagues, normally we will now approach the vote for those points of the agenda, those materials, those acts discussed by the Croatian Parliament. First, we go on the basis of Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament supplementing the agenda with the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Can we check if there's enough hands? Sign up for the voting system. Thank you very much. We have enough attendance to decide all the points we've done. And now I propose the agenda item of the Mandate-Immunity Commission report. Please honorary colleagues and fellow MPs to declare who is for this item to be placed on the agenda. ... You don't have to? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. I've been warned of the Rules of Procedure. It should not be voted unless there are objections to the proposal for inclusion in the agenda. There isn't. Thank you very much. We put the proposed agenda item on the agenda. Thank you very much. Let's do this right away - Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission Please president of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, a respected colleague of Gordan Sobol, submit a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85849	Thank you, Mr. President. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its 45th session held on 24 October 2014 the request of the power of attorney of private prosecutor Mija Šepak from Kutina for the authorisation to conduct criminal proceedings against Marin Lovrić-Merzel for the offence of the slander referred to in Articles 149(1) and 2. Penalty law. Marina Lovrić-Merzel is a representative of the 7th meeting of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 76. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office is terminated. The mandate-immunity committee shall be based on Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament to make a decision: during the term of the parliamentary term, the authorisation for the conduct of the criminal proceedings against MP Marin Lovrić-Merzel is denied after the private lawsuit of Prosecutor Mija Šepak from Kutina. In particular, the Commission took the principle that, at the request of the State Attorney's Office as an independent and independent judicial body which is required to act against the perpetrators of criminal and other criminal offences, it is necessary to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings. However, in the case of private prosecutors, as well as in cases where the injured person as a subsidiary prosecutor takes the place of a state lawyer because the lawyer found that there is no basis for the initiation or conduct of a criminal proceedings, the commission will propose to the Croatian Assembly a denial of the authorisation. The criminal proceedings may be initiated after the end of the term of office, given that the limitation does not run until there are reasonable reasons why the proceedings cannot be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85850	Thank you, too. I'm opening a debate on the proposal. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am making a statement of the proposed decision. Thank you. What's the score? I find that the proposed decision has been reached unanimously with 113 votes in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85851	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the session. We'll discuss 2. Internal Affairs Minister's report on police operations in 2013 The report was submitted by the Minister of the Interior pursuant to Article 4. The law of the police. You've received the motion for an act. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the reports at the session. The opening report will be explained by Ranko Ostojic, the deputy prime minister and interior minister. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85852	... I guess I don't have to repeat what I just said. [[Specially enabled.]] There is a report in front of you that was submitted to the Croatian Parliament in March on the performance of police work for 2013. I have to say this is the third time I've been in front of you Assembly representatives, defending the report. This obligation has existed since 2001, that at least once a year, and on the basis of a request from the Croatian Parliament and a more frequent interior minister submits a report on police affairs. The report itself states, although I must say that on a regular basis there are all the statistics that are updated on a daily and weekly basis. Therefore, anyone who wants to see statistics can see. All those tables that have been delivered to you and summed up for 2013 in this report. What is part of the circle and strategic objectives of the police and defined strategy are exactly the basis on which, of course, other than the Police Act, the Law on Police Affairs and Powers should say that in the Ministry of Internal Affairs other than public security matters, these are all criminal acts, criminal offences and offences, there are both accidents and elemental accidents, and what is the subject of your debate today and why the report refers to police affairs at the Ministry of the Interior organised at the structural level, the Police Directorate at the national level, which is the central establishment unit. And we have 20 police administrations based in the county and city of Zagreb, and there are 185 police stations of which 138 are basic, 20 traffic, 14 border, 6 airport and 6 sea stations at local level. What I would like to point out in this part of the introduction before I move on to concrete, which is that the special objective of the Ministry of Interior, or its segment that we are talking about today, is the Head of Police of Public Order and Peace, in addition to the violations recorded in 2013 is 89928 by all regulations. And, of course, criminal acts. As far as day and night police work is concerned, it is something that makes this service exactly the backbone of the public security system, and I think that during 2013 the number of notifications and what actually citizens initiated certain requests or provided information and requested intervention in any case can be fully said that this is the main operational backbone of public security in the Republic of Croatia. In the affairs that are detailed in the report given precisely by the heads on the activities of the Special Police, the finding of persons and objects, anti-explosion protection, the insurance of persons, facilities and space, inspection surveillance, I think that international activity is what is particularly highlighted as the suppression of crime as a special goal. In that section, it should be pointed out that in 2013 we record a decline in the number of criminal offences which does not necessarily mean that safety is increased. For what reason? Because police and through a strategy that we have just been asked to increase the number of criminal offences reported in the domains called the dark area of crime in which police activities are being sought, which are primarily organised crime, war crime, terrorism, domestic violence, economic crime, corruption and drug crime. In this segment is also the goal, which is that we have a growth in the number of applications, which has achieved strategic goals, and in total perhaps one illustration, which is that there were only comparisons in the Republic of Croatia for 41 murders in 2012, and in 2000 there were 101 murders. It may be one image that can show which difference we have regarding general crime. A special segment is highlighted in the part of curbing corruption. Corruption has been reported in 1940, that is, if we were to share means of bribery, taking bribes what is true and there is, of course, a step and a number of applications. The news, of course, of which the police have adapted, is new challenges that have been put in place, which are cybercrime, financial investigations, property reconnaissances and money laundering. In the part of high-tech crime, I want to point out, which is that since 2011, the ministry's capacity in the fight against cybercrime has been increased and 792 crimes have been recorded from that segment. In countering converted crime and war profits, criminal research has been resolved in 46 cases, and the most significant criminal research in both economic and other segments has been presented to you in the report. Of course, I'm not going to list each of these now because I think it's transparent for every activity as much, when and what's been done in the most significant operational actions the police have conducted. In drug crime, I want to point out that in 2012, we had changes in which there has been a change, which is that the Law on drug abuse is being treated, and I am now going to call it the one for personal use, as a violation, no longer a crime. Even today’s parliamentary issue, which was specifically related to these public gatherings that occur during the tourist season or throughout the year, can be seen that the share is actually much larger in the breaking sphere. In particular, at the 9th month gathering in Pula of 158 there were 153 misdemeanors, and others, so only 5 is a crime of drug trafficking. We had an increase of 20.8% in criminal offences compared to 2012 in the area of drug crime, thus achieving this strategic goal, which is that it also enters the dark area of crime. In general crime, I would like to point out that 50 217 crimes have been reported, which is less than 2013. The material damage was 568 814 kuna. The resolution coefficient is absolutely in EU and RS standards in particular in this segment as regards the reduction in numbers as well as in the general criminality segment has a positive trend for which they can immediately point out that it continued in 2014. In the first term, the results are not on that trail but even more high-quality. In the criminal protection of youth and family in 2012, 3887 criminal offences for the protection of children and minors were recorded. That's 24.1% higher than in 2012. The minors have been reported for 2808 crimes, which is 22% lower. In particular, all the elements that say that the orientation of the ministry, or its segment of the police, is specifically aimed at protecting vulnerable people, which means minors, children and family violence, are listed in the specific segment. In road safety, it was one of the specific objectives also, by adopting new legislation we also have a positive trend, of course a reduction in the number of fatalities. The following was achieved, which is that traffic accidents by 8.2% were killed by 6.4% less, slightly injured by 4.3% less and severely injured by 7.1%. It should be pointed out that 368 people died, of which 221 died at the scene of the accident, 33 during transport to a health institution, and 114 in the period of 30 days from the car accident. A total of 2013 died on Croatian roads. 25 persons less than in 2012. When we compare it to the number of registered drivers that grew by 19,449, then this result is an additional step and in the trend of what we have drawn out with the strategy. In the section describing the meaning of international police cooperation, I would like to point out that in 2012 there is the best illustration, which is that the President Interpol has just pointed out that in the exchange of information Croatia makes a leading country as regards Interpol's centres, i.e. the achievement of a complete Interpol strategy to be on the disposition for 24 hours for 7 days and to exchange information. And this has absolutely caused the fruit that in the operational actions that work on the international plan Croatia is definitely a leader in the region, and participation in international activities makes us not only an important segment of Interpol and Europol, but also in proportions that can be treated as world actions. With regard to the abuse of travel documents, cross-border crime, border police affairs, illegal immigration, I would like to point out that the Republic of Croatia is one of the few countries in the EU that has seen a decline in the number of illegal migrants who have been uninterrupted by illegal routes on the Balkan route, the known Balkan route, has a decline in moments when..., this is the European Agency for the EU's external borders, there is a total increase of 54% in the EU of illegal immigrants entering the EU, and there is a 30% decline in Croatia. Therefore, strengthening the capacity of border police in which the Ministry of Interior during 2012 and afterwards meeting monitoring obligations, these capacities have shown absolute results, which is only if you compare Croatia and Hungary, the route is definitely turned exactly for the reason that the border police at the border of the Republic of Croatia achieves results, which is that successfully, not to follow European trends, but is far better than other countries in Europe. I think it is also important to point out, and this is that the realized reception centre for, the renewed reception centre for wounded groups now located in Kutina, and as regards asylum, was submitted to 1006 requests in 2013, was increased 6.5 times compared to 2004, with the approval of a name for 7 persons in 2013, and... protection was granted for 18 persons. Croatia strictly respects the European directives on the Dublin process,... the system, and what is especially waiting for us, which is the entry of course into the Schengen area for which we can apply for 2 years after accession, that means 01.07. In 2015, there will certainly be opportunities for further talks in this House. As for the use of police powers and the use of means of coercion, I must say here that, regardless of the signs that go on, there is allegedly no surveillance, the police are subject to triple surveillance. This is done through administrative supervision within the Ministry of the Interior, then parliamentary supervision of the Croatian Parliament in which the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security is at all times able to oversee work and civil oversight through the relevant body for civil oversight complaints. The step taken and the adoption of a new Law on Police Affairs and Powers will certainly further use it to remove the situation, which is that there was no possibility of civilian oversight of measures collected by police. This is now absolutely waste as soon as the body is formed, so as so far a citizen could contact the Croatian Assembly, or the Civil Security Service Supervisory Council, they will have such a council to monitor the measures conducted by the police. In particular, the report noted this part of the attack on police officers who I must say were 170 in 2012, 4 officers were seriously injured, 120 more easily, 1 was killed during the service. As far as the human potential of all of these police jobs is concerned, 25 thousand 995 employees were employed at the Ministry of the Interior on 31 December 2013, which is less than 734 employees or 2.7% compared to 2012. The most important part is, I still have to point out as far as it's concerned that the systematization shows numbers that would be far greater, but the police's fillup, cca 20,000 people have police authority, that means they're armed police officers. As far as the report is concerned, I believe that this basis that you have received in terms of all statistical indicators will be a quality basis for discussion, given that we have also given the distribution of criminal acts by police administrations, by types of crime, especially this part of the public order and peace, as regards public gatherings, it is all an opportunity for me to discuss it, of course, but I argue that these trends are very positive. I will tell you once again before, of course, the debate begins, that in Croatia in 2013 there were 61 thousand 151 crimes, and a year before, 2012. 70 545. When we compare it to the number of crimes per 100,000 inhabitants, then the Republic of Germany with 1463 crimes being prosecuted by official duty, here's only a small comparison, meaning 1463, in the Federal Republic of Germany 7327 per 100 thousand in the Republic of Austria 6.5 thousand in 100,000 inhabitants. About the murders, I told you that I think it's a pretty important data 41 murders that's 10 murders less than in 2012. 4 murders from the previous period, two from 2004 and two murders from 2010, were also solved during 2013, which means that the orientation and creation of a new Cold Cases Department and, at this point, an additional result has also been shown here. In the area of organised crime, I think that's something that we have to point out, which is a growth of 6,255 counts in the area of crime, and I believe you'll be interested in this figure, which is that 1085 vehicles were estranged in 2013, of which 645 were found, which makes 62.3% found after they were estranged. Now, when we compare it to some years ago, maybe the best thing about the period that borders exactly when I was the head of the police, there were 2199 alienated vehicles, and 1038 were found, and the share was 47%, and now we've raised it to 62.3%. When you compare this with other countries, then Croatia is an absolute comparison with other European countries, saying that we have a rate that is an extremely high-quality trend. As far as I'm concerned, I'm going to repeat only about illegal immigration one more number, in 2012, 15 thousand people entered Hungary illegally, in 2013 32 thousand. It is in Croatia in 2012. 5,000 illegal immigrants, slightly more than 5,000 tried to cross Croatia and were caught in 2013, and in 2013, the figure fell to 4.5 thousand, so that's an additional argument. Of course we're particularly interested in this segment of drug crime, there's an increase of 10.84% compared to the same period a year ago. In 2012 6381 seized, 2013. 7073 seized. In economic crime also 6315 criminal charges compared to 2012 when 5994 were at 5.4% of growth. Material damage in economic crime in 2013 is a billion 463 million kuna. In the corrupt part here we have the largest growth of 135.2% compared to 2012. Number of applications 1940 in 2013. 825 in 2012 This applies to the offences of abuse of the position of the receiving and giving of bribes that account for 96.2% of the part relating to this domain. I also want to say that there has been a special serious growth in applications in organized, t we have figures and that is that in 2013. 127 application for organised crime, 2012 They were 35, in economic 1447, and 426 was a year ago. This applies to the PNUSKOK, or that segment that is most closely related to these acts that go under the scope of USKOK and drug crime 101 applications compared to 8 in 2012 resulting in further integration of USKOK and the National Police Office for the Prevention of Organized Crime and Corruption. Something special to point out, which is that the rejection of criminal acts was something that was a regular phenomenon and was moving on serious numbers that were of course worrying in these trends, which is that the number of rejections that ranged from 30% in 2013 was achieved next and that was that the rejection fell by 29.5% and we had in 2013. 8269 rejected applications compared to 11736 as they were in 2012. The police will continue because it is an extremely important segment to raise the quality of criminal applications submitted through professional education, analysis of each individual rejection and quality co-operation with the State's Attorney's Office. I'd like that too. I'm sure I'll be able to, in addition to the comprehensive report you've been given on both the CD and the printed form, be able to respond to your specific details. Here's my thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85853	Thank you very much, Minister. Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85854	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear Ministers, I listened carefully to your report on police affairs in 2013, I would not like to return to that final draft of the law concerning amendments and additions to the Law on Police Affairs and Powers, but I will tell you something that you have been saying in this report, and it is about the Schengen regime of 1.7.2015. and you know that it will be necessary to adapt to this regime. Along the way, you listed traffic and basic and border stations, so I will only once again warn you of your response to me in 2012 when the inspection services at the Ministry of the Interior visited the Imotski police station that works under inhumane conditions, it is very well known to you. On some 100-squares all services from the transport service, an armed list, for ID cards, passports, and the entrance itself is printed daily by over 100 people. The workers themselves cannot and do not know where to put all these registries and the same building is border police. You then responded that there are certain solutions and that by obtaining funds from the European Union you will actually begin these works. Of course, realizing the seriousness of the economic situation does not occur to me that a new building is being built because the Government of the Republic of Croatia has two such buildings, say, in the city of Imotskom and I believe, and I would like you to tell me today, will you ever work a new police station in Imotskom? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85855	The reply to the replica of Minister Ranko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85856	Dear Vice President. Dear Mr. Representative, of course I won't build the station, but the job of the Home Secretary is to create conditions for police work. I haven't given up on your specific question, and I'm going to answer it very practically, I know the conditions under which the Imotski police are working. DUDI has been asked to enter into a lease contract as a temporary solution that through the new space they too have better conditions in the town of Imotskoma itself. Secondly, the building located in the center of the town of Imotski can be much better used for some other activities rather than for the police. Third, we are in the process of finding a solution through the bankruptcy process to find a quality building and we think it will be the best solution. Namely, there is a variant in which the company is in bankruptcy with large parking, with a quality building and with minimal investment that we could provide a debt to the state of a very large amount of money, so I believe it will be possible to close the building itself when we speak to new stations, basic police or become police in the city of Imotsko. As far as the rest is concerned, it's border police, we need to separate things, it can't be under the terms of the Schengen evaluation, and now I'm going to say mixed coloquially with the others, it has to be completely separate. And at the moment there are many actually works facilities from Trilj, Tovarnik to all other cities in the Republic of Croatia but they can't be the meaning of a solution specifically. So I hope you're satisfied with this part of the answer that's looking for a solution because it's clear to me that we have to deal with each other in various ways. In the Ministry of the Interior there are all kinds of limited funds for the reconstruction of objects that there are very many but we managed to solve it through a favourable lease or through renovation in most of the environments in which the worst conditions were indeed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85857	Thank you very much. Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85858	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, allow me, Mr. Minister, to say that I'm glad to see you and that I'm glad that you're having a difficult health condition and I can see that you've obviously recovered well and I really wish you good health in the future and I'm really glad that you're here with us. Secondly, as for the Schengen, I have to say that I am not such an optimist in terms of date, so next year 2015, I think there was talk about 2015, I think it's hard for us to enter 2015, but we need to prepare for it as if we're going to enter 2015, especially here I think of southern Croatia, which in this specific situation is related to the crossing of borders where we are already feeling the terrible pressures and the columns of summer are known to be 15 kilometers ahead of Neum to the Bistrina on the other hand. So that's one problem that should try to find one solution, I also don't know it now but you should think about how to try to make it easier for people who daily have to travel through the county, so they have to move through that space. That's one thing. And another thing, I think statistics can always be interpreted in different ways, so let's say statistics on drug-related crime. Of course we can say a lot of cases have been processed, etc., but it seems to me that this is the area, today something about this colleague Cain was talking about at the current afternoon, but it seems to me to me that this is an area for which there is an even greater involvement of the people within the police force itself, within the Ministry of the Interior itself, because it is one problem that has long-term damaged us and that really creates huge problems for families and for all those who find themselves and for this whirlwind of drugs. So that's one area that we need to say even more I'd like to explore and advance in investigations around above all those who deal in drug dealing and those who use it, unfortunately abuse this situation especially with young people. Here's what I think, I'm saying statistics can be interpreted in various ways, but I think we should give this area a special accent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85859	The reply to the replica of Minister Ranko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85860	Dear Mr. Matušić, I must point out first that I did not say that in 1.7.2015 we will enter the Schengen. In fact, for at least 6 months, it takes an evaluation to do so is the time limit when we can apply for entry into the Schengen. The decision on whether or not to enter the Schengen area depends not on the Republic of Croatia but on all the members. And, of course, not that it does not appear to be date 1.7, but it is a question of when a decision will be made and will we, at almost 400 points in the evaluation, meet the criteria that are very strict and important for all the countries of the European Union and which are also doing the repeat evaluation for those who are already in Schengen. I would also point out that Romania and Bulgaria, no matter how many years have passed, have been members of the European Union and have not yet become part of the Schengen zone despite the requirements. What of course needs to be known, which is that even before itself, means from the moment we entered the European Union and before Schengen we are obliged to apply the rules of this Schengen. I know it's causing problems on Neum. We tried to make it as special as possible, or I'm talking about the police and the Border Police, at a time when the biggest crowds were to use all those legal options and rules that exist to reduce the crowds. I would also like to point out that there has been... control with Slovenia almost all the crossings, only a few left. We have done the same thing with Hungary, which has significantly reduced the pressures that are happening there, but it is clear that the Schengen regime implies rules. Unfortunately, the situation in southern Croatia is such that you are actually coming out of the European Union at a distance of 5 km and entering it again, and that was one of the conditions. You know in monitoring that especially the border crossing... was highlighted as one of the 10 points that should have been met according to the full Schengen criterion that all together could be done And about the crime of drugs for a short time. [[/Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you, beautiful ministers. Time.]] You saw that in 2012, we had 10% improvement in entering that area. I took your message as an additional motivation for police officers to work on it. It's one of the priorities and will be continued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85861	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First in line on behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives colleague Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85862	First of all, I would like to welcome or rather commend what the Ministry of the Interior has done this year when it comes to floods in Gunja, in general in the area of Eastern Slavonia. But to go back to the M.O.P.'s 2013 report now. No matter what, Croatia is a safe country, I would even say that Croatia is a peaceful country. When it comes to police work, I dare say that the DORH is also a quiet country of Croatia, I would even say that the police and the DORH are sometimes co-responsible because of their inaction because of this economic stockpile in the Republic of Croatia. And I often notice when I watch what the police do, what the DORH does, that simply in action is an inappropriate selectivity. Today I would also dare say that it no longer runs through the ministries but it has fallen to the lower levels and the deepest division I would say it is created at these lower levels. In 2013, the state budget weighed €125 billion, the local budget weighed €21.9 billion, with the state in charge of €30 billion last year. But what's worst is certainly political crime, and it's in my opinion, that this is how I define it, when someone publicly turns it into private. That's what it means when someone gets their own, they get their own public benefit. That's what it's like when you buy public money down at my place, when you buy newspapers, when you buy TVs, when you buy portals, rather than know what it's called, or when you buy public money, for example. You're hiring PR agencies. Today I read that one mayor of an Istrian city on the East Coast said about what attacked me, so I spend only 1% on the PR and the media. 1% of 75 million kuna, that's 750,000 kuna. If I keep in mind that all the budgets in Istria without the income of utility companies are more than a billion kunas, we can say that some kind of self-promotion pays 15 million kunas a year. And then why I'm talking about selectivity, because we have a case called FIMI-media, and where they're far more subtle and systematic, simply... a budget when it comes to media, nothing happens. I've been talking about drugs in Istria for a long time. A little while ago, Mr. Matusic said something. This morning I asked a question higher than what's going on on Outlook or Dimensions where this year the police found drugs in 400 people or to be more specific, with them 397. Although I say it's nothing because 95% of those who were there were actually on pills and it's kind of tolerated. Recently, just when it comes to the report or the year of this report, the entire police department on the fight against narcotics of the Istrian Police Department for dealing ended up in a via Roma or better said in an investigative prison in Rijeka. The year this report in Uruguay came to us was the employee of the Port Captain of Pula, no less than 2 tons of 150 kilos of coke. Recently, a few weeks ago, a senior official of the party in power in Istria fell because as a communal drug officer, I told a spider so the chief or mayor of Poreč told me he was going to sue me because he didn't fall during working hours but after work hours. So the man's still working my ass. I know it's not their parents' fault, but it's more than serious. So we have a situation like this, that the open sea port captainia to the official speedboats, or that individual delivered it to the police, to the communal directors, and then to the official cars, spiders, or whatever, they sold it around the school. And I want to say what's most important, Mr. Minister, is that this is slowly changing in Istria. And what's changing is mostly due to a new chief of police, and I want to believe that this will no longer be a practice in the years ahead of us. Clearly, the first people around the drug lord Saric who is being tried in Belgrade are also from Istria. And then I'm really asking myself a question about how long it's gonna be like that, because we're all threatened about it. And I said, the new head of the Istrian Police Department simply decided to change things for the better. On the other hand, to be a little cynical, and that's exactly what my Buzes asked me to say, that where the police in this country are absolutely or at least down there is a success. That's, so you're absolutely successful on the roads, there's no objection, there's no no no. And now for the hunt, I'm going to tell people who kill, say, some wild pig. Look, when some peasant kills some wild pig in Buzet, there's a criminal report coming up. Who? DORH, his name immediately appears in the local and national newspapers. But when a communal officer deals drugs, then in the paid media, everything is clearly blocked why the police aren't responsible because the police gave that information. However, if we don't stop this drug from happening to us in the Istrian areas, gentlemen are threatening an epidemic, and we can thank that for the inaction of the police and local self-government in some earlier periods. And that's why I'm telling everyone, don't play with it, and I'd like you, Mr. Secretary, to reopen the case of the death of Mrs. Martin Duras. On page 6, this report is interesting, so Istria has 6.5% of the population. In the gross social product we used to participate with 6 and a half percent. Today, we fell to 4 and a half percent, but that's why we hold a record of 8 and a half percent of Croatian crime at 4%. We've got a case of how many residents that is and how much of that crime is involved. Or that on this table, it means the number of crimes per 100,000 inhabitants, and that's not just because of tourism. In Istria, we have 2505 crimes per 100,000 inhabitants. 1599 in Primorje-Gorski County. In Split-Dalmatia which also has some tourism probably 1217 or in Osijek-Baranja 1469. In Zagreb 1674, in Istria 2550. But that's nothing, too. According to another table on page 30, there is talk of a comparative demonstration of economic crime by police administrations, and it is about the material damage done in the Republic of Croatia, which totalled as the minister mentioned a billion and 463 million kuna earlier. Out of a billion 463 million kuna per city of Zagreb, for example, which has 800 and so many thousands of inhabitants of waste, damage, material damage of 243 million kuna. Or in the Primorje-Gorski County, 40 million kuna, in Osijek-Baranja 35 million kuna. I don't know, Split-Dalmatia 108 million kuna, and in Istria material damage is estimated at 662.9 million kuna. Of these, it means how many 1.4 billion kunas. I'm really asking myself a question then, gentlemen, what is that simple? We, like you had the chance to read and we witnessed a racket in the case of the List higher than half a botovun. The man has been systematically recalibrated for 500 thousand euros, no. Jupiter fund 200 thousand euros. Mrs. Palaciol Maria of Rovinj, whom we call the Captain. Why the Captain? Because her mother, after World War II, ended up in the rank of captains, twice wounded, the Nazis killed her father, mother, and four brothers and sisters on her doorstep. She wanted to sell the country to Brother Shimon Peres, a racketeer, for a little something of 600,000 euros. I know there's something going on here. If you want to build something in Istria, you can only make real estates that are for kuna, two or three purchased from the state, and later urbanized and detailed plans prepared for certain investments. Gentlemen can't do this anymore and that's why we're just stagnating. And that's why I also said that neither the courts, nor the DORH, nor the MUP, nor the government, nor the local self-government, we're actually not doing enough about it. And that's why I don't know whether to be in, against, I don't know, abstention. One word, I'm indisposed when I know just what's going on somewhere. Once again, he's doing my Buzeans. I mentioned that case of savages and what the police are doing. I mean, when someone kills a wild pig, they immediately follow a criminal record. Well, we can't live there more than that savage. It is likely that such a situation is not significantly better elsewhere. On Krk, on Cres, it lasts 24 hours a day, there are no poachers, so it takes a hunt. And there you simply can no longer plant anything or devote any agricultural production to us because you will simply remain, and to the people who defend our defenses we simply address or treat them as the greatest criminals. So let certain norms or behaviors be set in motion. All in all, I'm glad we got one of these comprehensive reports, and I think. Yeah, well, I mentioned a few cases in Istria, and I mentioned the work of the new head of the Istrian Police Administration, and I think the opportunities are still getting better.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85863	Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85864	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Cain, you mentioned in the fight against drug abuse and we agree, of course, that this is a multi-resor battle, we can say, i.e. comprehensive. I also have to say that it's not mandatory to carry a mandate, so we can't just look at who's in power, no matter who's in power, I think it's a common struggle, if we're going to look at political and multi-resored, because the political will without an institution doesn't apply, and also vice versa. I come from Dubrovnik-Neretva County and I think it's very important that it depends on people. I come from a tourist destination almost the safest destination. When you look at the city of Dubrovnik, regardless of the openness and frequency of tourists, and there were about a million and 900 thousand in 2013, we can still say that it is among the safest cities. But as far as drugs are concerned, we have an increase in the seizure of intoxicating drugs, we have even detecting activities that increase to 80%, and the processing of drug abuses without possession is more than 51% compared to 2012. It also increased the number of seizures, over 68%. These figures show the effectiveness of police work in the Dubrovnik-Neretva County police administration, however, I would also mention here a problem that remains and we must fight, which is alcoholism because traffic violations are increasing, the speed is the most common cause, and by research, especially alcohol. It's one fight we'll actually have to deal with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85865	Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85866	It doesn't work like we expected this new device. Yes, in any case, Croatia is a safe country and there is a common fight, a fight against drugs, and there is no doubt that there is no dilemma and I do not blame any parents but simply the community because what is happening to someone today can happen to someone else tomorrow. But what I'm going to do, how I'm going to fight it when some local bosses regularly go to those festivals... or what it's called, but they don't come to the opening of a Pula Film Festival. And then you're really asking yourself a question, which is a message, let's say the local authorities. Here, if you noticed on several occasions, I tried to commend the work of the new head of the Istrian police administration when it comes to drugs, and I would be also happy if he performed in the same way and when it comes to economic or under allegations, some political crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85867	On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, colleague Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85868	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. Since it is not the Minister's report, but the Minister's report on police affairs, I will begin my debate with what they have told me, or those to whom this report refers, on police officers who have carefully analyzed this report and regrettably found that in some important things that have a major impact on their work in the report there is no mention, and they think, and I have accepted it, that it should be. So police officers warn of a lack of equipment for police officers, especially those protective like vests, helmets and other means of protection they should have. The lack of official uniforms, and this, and public jokes at the expense of replacing their shirts, as far as the media was concerned, is far more serious because of the more significant equipment there has been nothing for years. A year-long reduction in police officers' rights, a abolished high-school police school, reintroduced police courses for officers, and then those who finish up to two years are waiting for work. A lack of interest... in the police administrations along the coast which requires bringing in police officers from the continental area which also causes new costs, not only services, but also those who have been transferred, and the return of those sent to these police administrations, for years cannot get back into their police administrations. The lack and untapped use of European funds to build police homes, or stationers. Non-use of EU funds, i.e. European funds for the construction of police stations... capacity. Not using European funds to get equipment, especially helicopters to control the border. Undetermined, vague and without additional information, pilot project of 3rd category police stations. Employees are dissatisfied and unmotivated because of the constant reduction of their right and... of social status, the frequent crackdown of politics over the back of the police and the feeling of insecure in doing their job and leaving themselves alone when problems arise. I have shortened these grudges or parts they feel would be good if they were in the report in the future because they also have a major impact on the quality of their work. So I call on the minister to include in the future reports and the part in his report in order to see, and we don't need to hide the problems that exist in the police. Citizens, when it comes to police, could usually be placed in two groups. The first group would be joined by those who will complain about police repression, which is always too much, who are always harassed and always stopped. On the other hand, there's another group who's constantly criticizing why the police aren't there, why there's no night in the park, why there's no weekend around kindergartens and schools, and in the morning there's a bunch of junkie syringes and needles there, why they're not there where there's a fight, why they're not there, and they could just pick them up all over again. These are two contrasts that are natural because by nature people fear a repressive apparatus but sometimes or too often have too many expectations. Police work is ungrateful and difficult, often and dangerous, unfortunately and we have had opportunities in Croatia to testify. And that's why I want to say that in the police, both in Croatia and everywhere, but we are now discussing Croatia, there are those who deserve not only praise but admiration for doing the job, but also those who embarrass both the profession and the service in which they work. And now it's a matter of setting up a system for them to reward and promote first, and for others to throw out of the system as quickly as possible and as thoroughly as possible. And that's the minister's success, and I'm sorry that he's not here in this debate with the police director because in fact this report is mostly about his portfolio. People in Croatia also, which is a mantra, are saying there are too many employees in the state administration. All of this needs to be cut down and hired. People don't know, they don't need to know that there are cops in that number of state administrations. 139 basic police stations, 20 traffic stations, 14 border, 6 airports, 6 maritime police units that employ 25,309 people. Do we have too many police? Enough or too little? So all those critics of the state administration remind me that when we talk about it, we talk about it. 31,000 jobs have been systematized. Filling in police officers 20,747 or 80%. Now this difference between 25 and 31 is 6 grand. It's obviously administrative business. I'm asking the minister what's the fullness of the systematic jobs there? So, of the police officers, the fill is 80%, what about those who aren't police officers? Is there a capacity of 100%, greater or less than this 80%? Citizens' trust is hard to gain, easily lost. And in this report, there are a few indicators that could be said that trust is not very good. The data on calls on free phones opened by the police incur a 46% drop in 2013 compared to 2012. Or maybe the citizens of 2013 had nothing to tip off. An untouchable citizen is a third or second element where citizens have the right to doubt that police don't treat everyone equally. I personally had the opportunity to see the documents now of the late Međimurje police officer whose causes of death were not resolved today, according to me, who on several occasions wrote that he was given orders from his boss to do so and not to touch it and because it was a major police sponsor. So, the very fact that it mentions the possibility of a citizen entrepreneur being a sponsor to the police and that it should be treated differently is something that is extremely dangerous. The leak of information, whether to the media, or to those who are subject to investigation or other measures by the police and this violates the reputation of the service. The success of fighting organised crime increases or reduces citizens' confidence in police, and the greatest damage to police officers and police services in general can be when citizens feel, see or hear that the police are only one enough to involve it in political accounts. Unfortunately, there's a minister at the local level today. As for public gatherings, the report said that there were 19,000, that 104 were public order and peace violations, and most of all in sports. I'm sorry it didn't work out now in detail 47 sports, I guess the most relevant thing is football. I remember a debate a few years ago that police had to spend a million and 600 thousand kuna, then Mrs. Kosor was prime minister if I wasn't wrong, to activate her employees for only one football match in Zagreb. A million and 600 thousand were the cost of police to hold a football match in Zagreb. And now I ask the question that we state that from the state budget we have to allocate so much significant money because of the inability and incompetence of sports alliances to regulate that area and so many specialists to hold a football game either in Zagreb, Split or anywhere else. 120,000 criminal acts, 90 grand per citizen's tip, 30 grand reveals the police themselves. This figure in 2013 is about the same as it was in 2012. However, the resolution is 56.8% and that's about 1.1% better than 2012. Is 56.8% of the crimes solved a passing grade or not? School way of grading that. Organized Crime 1849 Crimes, 1063 People Who Care for Growth Not 34 but 134%. Economic crime and corruption, the number of crimes increased by more than 5%, the number of participants decreased by 4%, 3.9 I conclude that they are now slightly less but more stolen, therefore the ability. It was obviously a human selection made, and the incompetent went away, and the more capable they stayed, and the less managed to steal more. In corruption crimes where 135% of the number of crimes is recorded, and 106% of the perpetrators on one side are encouraged, which is obviously a signal that police have entered the area more thoroughly or there has been a lot of such growth in these corruption crimes. But I have a question from the minister, and the report says that the material damage to the guy in the corrupt shop is 941 million. Is this the value of the bribery and corruption that is given, or has the state or other bodies suffered so much damage to these crimes? I didn't understand that, material damage 941 million. As far as traffic is concerned by a recommendation, when the storm on this Maslenica bridge closes the bridge for traffic and makes safe traffic, however, when local and state roads are concerned with conditions for maintaining traffic even worse than when the storm at Maslenica is extremely rare, I would say almost never closes the road for traffic because again the problem of the local community which is guilty of such a traffic situation, and police do not want to apply this most difficult measure for traffic safety, and by the structure of traffic accidents and the cause where you see it has not adjusted driving conditions on the road half of it is the condition on the road, and not the condition of the driver. The citizens' report for the crimes of savings cooperatives, the Raiffeisen Savings Cooperative from Austria, the ministers of 15 people reported to me who tried to file a police report. Whether or not all 15 were denied because of ignorance or incompetence was refused so that they could file a report. And only after the interventions did police officers receive reports from those citizens. That area is obviously still an area where we're kind of afraid to get into it. And due to the time in the end, you know exactly what I mean when I'm going to say the issue of security in Međimurje, we have discussed this especially in municipalities where the settlements of the Roma national minority are located. And of all those conversations we've had and attempts to co-operate with local self-government, some progress has been made. Citizens in fear of revenge no longer report not only thefts, petty thefts, but also serious crimes because they realized that the benefits of reporting to the police were nothing. Let's not wait for an incident occasion to talk about this problem again.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85869	The word was requested by Minister Ranko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85870	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here's what I'm going to take advantage of, given that I've been given a series of incorrect information that can confuse the public, so I'd like to intervene for that reason. First, this 941 million response has been found to be damage, and not how much bribery has been made, these are the data that were leveled along with the USKOK. When you have a situation, I'll simplify it, and that's when someone to the state, the local city or their company has done damages to 100 million kunas, and that's why they get bribes, it's especially written in the indictment. Secondly, I must say, this is the Home Secretary's report on police work. I can absolutely agree with you that otherwise you can always request the Home Secretary's report to speak about the ministry and the job that the minister should do, which is to create conditions for police work. As the horror of your discussion has just referred to that, and that is the status of police officers, equipment, construction and all that may not be in this report because you are parliamentary representatives, or those who have then passed the law, are prescribed in Article 4. The law on police, which is that the minister, and I've said it many times already, is that a completely guilty person submits a report on what he doesn't run, but I say so in the law, and every time I prepare myself neatly and come here to defend the report for the reason that these are jobs that the minister can't really interfere with, he can't participate in them, and he doesn't even have the authority to order you to do this or do it like that. My part of the job and the part is that I can, through supervision, or internal control, possibly by representation or by my own initiative, correct certain things and in this part of creating conditions. So I'm saying that it might take such a change that would then be one story to create the conditions in which I have to stress and you participate, that is, through the budget and through the funds that serve to equip and this ministry, it's something that I think is the subject of when we talk about how far it's going to go. However, I would like to say here that the data in relation to whatever the unknown police official said is, but it's good to make an argument. I always try to make arguments mate with certain points. First the Maslenica Bridge doesn't close the police just so you know, it's what the authorities do, the police just regulate traffic. So the same message is in terms of how to solve the situation elsewhere. Ours, or the part that the police are doing, is regulation. The question of two years of waiting, so the police officer absolutely incorrectly data, it is visible to you from this report exactly where it happened that there were two years of waiting all were employees, that means all police officers or those who had completed the course, whether the high school had been resolved and today we brought to order that situation because when I came to the minister of mine had waited for 1036 academics who had finished means at that time of course the place was not and we came to the situation how to solve it plus what was new who attended the academy and had a contract that they had to finish, as soon as after the completion meant high school or course that they had to get a job. So they're all settled. And it's incorrect to wait. What all the candidates are today we do with 325 so many of them, there's no exaggeration just because it's a natural outflow in the Ministry of the Interior and the completeness that is needed. I'm talking about high-tech cops who if we can distinguish high school and class from reducing things, it's just a matter of commitment. High school was that after two years it means high school education you go to a police academy for two years which loses the part that would eventually get you in high school and this way we get high school completed and then 9 months of courses where the end of the story isn't but then a year with a mentor at a police station and they all actually go through serious education and people we've been taking It was especially for border police where a special course was needed. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you very much, bring the end.]] Here's one more second. That part of the story about the people who end up they will certainly get a job and we cannot fix the variant of Istria and Dubrovnik. So if people there don't want to go to the police then the one who signs the contract and says there's no problem in being a border guard anywhere in the Republic of Croatia can't look after five days move back to Slavonia or somewhere else. [[Thank you very much.]] That's what's true. I've got a lot to say, but then I'll use it later. Thank you. [[Intruder Zgrebec: You'll be in touch later.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85871	Dragutin Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85872	Mr. Minister, the question I've asked about these 941 million material damages has not been bad but I've only asked for a solution, so it's material damage caused by the burden of probably state, local self-government or any other. Thanks for the answer, but I'm... If I'm not mistaken. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I fully agree with you that this report in the Parliament should be defended by the Director of Police and not by the Minister, I agree. And as for the state of the police service if you want me as a club to request a particular report, then we will deal with what you say is a series of inaccuracies. I simply cannot believe that those who have read this report and wrote this to me to lie because they work in the police force are not former police officers but active. I trust them, too. And finally about the traffic. I also use to commend the police's behaviour on one case when it comes to traffic. Croatia's state, Croatian roads have invested significant funds in the construction of cycling trails, pedestrian-cyclist routes, somewhere so radical that there is a general danger on the road. I warned my chief about it because I saw, say no more, and you, here I am already called by the police department of Međimurska, asking for a conversation with me to get the performers to resuscitate immediately until someone killed themselves. So that's proof when police officers in charge of traffic safety are reacting preventively to local self-government, though the investor is state rather than local self-government. On such examples, I wanted to show that in a preventive sense, the minister’s police can do very much. If the police threatened the head of the municipality about closing the road because it broke the bridge or in such a state that it threatened the executioner, they would see that the behavior and attitude of them changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85873	Answer. Minister, would you like to respond? Ranko Ostojić responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85874	Here's a quick word, I agree with you that in the part that we have inspection services, of course the police can do that. And in particular, it does not give consent to open a certain road but not in this way as you said, which is that the police are threatening the commissioner, but through a regular procedure that means that we are achieving what the objectives of the National Road Safety Programme are, and that is our absolute obligation. Secondly, as far as belief and non-belief are concerned, I will try later on to answer your argument that you are not purchased helicopters I will answer you, that you are not building a police station I will answer you, that you are not using the funds of European funds I will answer you and then you will decide who you will trust, me or those who have told you with the arguments, and I believe that even parliamentary representatives can always take advantage of the opportunity to come in, talk to you and make sure that something is true or not, or at the same time ask for a report to be delivered and to assess whether a debate is needed or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85875	On behalf of the National Minorities Club, colleague Veljko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85876	Honorable vice presidents, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. The attitude of the Ministry of Interior employees towards citizens is one of the most important elements of the state's presence in society. The level of democracy of some of the state and society can also be observed through the manner and transparency of police and other state services towards citizens. That is why I think it is very important to analyse the work of the police towards all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and also to national minorities as a particularly sensitive part of the population. Compared with recent years in Croatia, there has been a reduction in criminal offences committed on a national and religious basis, which is certainly commendable. We can also conclude that police are becoming more professional in doing their jobs and recognizes to a greater extent the crimes committed by hate, which was not the case in earlier years. However, there is still a significant space for improvement when it comes to hate crime, discrimination and other misdemeanors targeting members of national minorities. According to the police lawyer, Roma and Serbian national minorities are among the most discriminated citizens. It is therefore necessary to pay particular attention to these groups in order to improve their protection and the right to equality. Although the number of crimes against members of national minorities has decreased, there are still a number of very worrying incidents whose targets are mostly the Serbian and Roma national minorities. A bomb was dropped on the part of the Serbian society in Split or an incident in Kozara Boc, in which after the car accident, the driver said nothing terrible had happened because only one gypsum was less than enough to say that there are still parts of the society that do not understand the consequences of such proceedings. That's why proper and timely police response is important. When it comes to crimes against members of national minorities, crime offenders have often not been detected, but in some cases there are complaints of insufficient engagement or overstepping the powers of police authorities. Earlier reports by the minister of police services show specific data on violence against members of the Roma national minority, however, there is no such data in this year's report, and therefore it is very difficult to monitor these data. Also, after reports of unfortunate incidents directed against members of the Roma national minority, for example in Međimurje or in Škabrnja a few years ago, the public was unable to find out who was and how they were punished for those events. I think we definitely have to do something about it, otherwise we can't confirm the full functioning of the rule of law. Another important problem to draw attention to is the employment of members of national minorities in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other state bodies. Since members of the Ministry of the Interior work directly with citizens in a particular area, it is necessary to work on the fact that the share of members of national minorities within the Ministry of the Interior is at least approximately the share of national minorities among the local population. The Human Rights Committee has paid particular attention to the area of Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema, however, this problem is not limited to those areas alone. The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities prescribes a rate of 5% of state and public administration employees, which should be made up of members of national minorities. In the 2012 report, members of national minorities account for less than 4% of employees. It is therefore clear that there is a need to further improve minority representation. A good model through which the target could be partially achieved is also the so-called “. ” Orders within Roma settlements. They would play a similar neighborhood or contact to police officers in the residential neighborhoods of many cities. In this way, it would improve the efficiency of employees in complex situations within Roma settlements. Such a system has also contributed to better understanding and co-existence with the Roma community. The Roma national minority, which is a socially and economically non-exclusive national minority in the Republic of Croatia, has particularly big problems with status issues. Although it is the members of the national minority, most of whom have been born or have been alive for many years in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, some Roma are not citizens of the Republic of Croatia, they are therefore subject to laws on foreigners and citizenship prescribed by the very strict rules of admission to Croatian citizenship. For the purpose of survival and unity, in essence many Roma are granted temporary and permanent stay for humanitarian reasons. However, the road to full citizenship is long and quite expensive, given that people themselves bear the costs of health insurance. And while such an approach is entirely fair for foreigners who move to Croatia and want to become citizens of the Republic of Croatia, it is very unfair to treat members of the Roma national minority of whom many have avoided during wartime events in the former state. Given the social and economic opportunities between the Roma community, it is difficult to expect that many of them will ever become holders of Croatian citizenship, although they have the full right to do so. The next problem I would like to point out to the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities is the shortages in the civil surveillance system of the Ministry of the Interior. Civil police supervision is very important in all countries of developed democracy, and further improves transparency in police work. The law on police has introduced assumptions that civil police surveillance, however, has shown the system unsustainable. One of the reasons is the increase in complaints of almost 50% and which have arrived at the Ministry of Interior Internal Affairs's Internal Affairs Control Office. When an analysis of the work of the Board of Appeals at the Ministry of the Interior comes to the conclusion that the commission has solved just slightly more than 20% of the cases received, which is truly disappointing. The volunteering character of the commission's work, there is no second-degree procedure in the Internal Affairs Ministry's Internal Affairs Control Service, as well as a large increase in complaints received and have led to a complete impasse in the work. Recent developments in Međimurje County suggest that they must perform more subtlely in the actions of police officers towards members of national minorities. A high concentration of Roma residents in a particular area leads to disagreements in the conduct of police officers towards members of the Roma national minority. They also cause a certain riot against the police when incarceration is carried out in a way that uses force or coercion. The deep trauma of the Roma population leads to rebellion when such and similar actions are taken within the settlement. Now, from this point on, I urge police officers to try to bring this kind of drive away from the settlement, because it may be a fuse that will set fire to a tense situation inside the settlement itself anyway. I appeal to the commissioners and employees to try to avoid the presence of observers on the street who are almost always on the side of weaker and powerless situations, and the scene in which a dozen police officers are engaged in the detention of one person is certainly not welcome on our streets. I also ask that, in accordance with the applicable laws of the person who has been brought into talks and after such talks, they are released and adequately informed of the rights and obligations. Recently, in one of our cities, I have come across such an example, as a suspect from one city has been questioned in another. After they found out there was no basis for keeping it, they let it on the street without introducing it to the basic rights that belonged to it. Namely, the suspect was released from the police station and was told to manage himself and to come from a place where he was brought to the city where he lived, and it was 200 km away without any document that might help him prove that at the time of his arrest he was without the money in his pocket and any document that could serve as proof of identity and the possibility of at least borrowing money for a train or bus ticket. Such examples should be aware of inhospitable activities and errors in the ministry, and they should not become practices and customs. I also appeal to the greater need for sustainability in carrying out investigative actions so that it does not happen to start an investigation before it is found out on the street, but rather that in the case it is ultimately not fully investigated and concluded on it. The commission also explained the situation on the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, and once again called on the Government and the Parliament to address the problems as soon as possible with the new Police Act proposal. Only effective civil surveillance can increase standards on the conduct of members of the Ministry of the Interior and transparency in the work of police and other bodies of the Ministry of the Interior. This report in its largest part shows progress in the work of the Ministry of the Interior. However, it is very important to consider the take-up and objections mentioned in the report of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, given that equal treatment towards all citizens, as well as the members of national minorities, is the key to the co-existence and progress of the entire society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85877	The word was sought by Minister Ranko Ostojic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85878	Honorable Vice President, Your Honor, MP. I have to say, first of all, that one part of things is a little late. That means I'll start at the end. There is no need to pass a new law on police when, in the meantime, from a debate on the Committee on Human Rights to this day, this House has already passed a new Law on Police Affairs and Powers and what I said earlier introduced civil surveillance. It means a council that will be able to do the job the same as the Civil Security Service Supervisory Council does. That would have been removed if something hadn't been covered. In order to know the exact figures of the Civil Guard Council, there were five performances during last year. Therefore, I am sure that this council will be able to do without any problems, especially when you have a fully computerized system of 15.7., in which it is impossible to delete any variant of the measure of secret data collection because of what at least 8 addresses receive at the same time information that the measure is applied without entering the content and the like. So you can't do it anymore. It's very simple just by typing inside you can see if there's a warrant and if you respect the court's decision. As for the Board of Appeals when it was proposed to make a commission in all police administrations, then it was rejected. Therefore, the suggestion at the time, which was just by the police, i.e. the directorate and the ministry, is that it is best to get rid of it in every police administration, and that there is one commission that would work at the level of the state at the second stage. This would avoid this asphyxiation that we have received at this point for reasons of course when doing objectivity after 2238 plays that have been delivered to internal control all what I am actually repeating for objectivity is being rerouted to the Civil's Board of Appeals. The solution can be found even in these moments, it is my opinion that it is decided that those in the second degree solve if someone is unhappy with the answer by internal control. And we could handle it. Mentioning statistics in terms of the national minority, here we are a little in trouble. So if you remember that I was in some way even exposed to media serious problems when you state certain data relating to a particular minority to it fairly and differently put it, which is if there are crimes that are listed here, and these are hate crimes, etc., but they are no longer separated in a way that is done to a member of the Roma national minority and vice versa. It is not also highlighted here who is the perpetrator of a crime in a particular area. Also, I just want to say that the question, the suggestion of yours, a little bit surprised me about this removal of witnesses, how to bring in how to be a tactics of conduct, etc. I mean, I have to be honest that I'm a little surprised how you would handle it. As far as I'm concerned, we're not afraid of any surveillance, but I must also say that the police will operate in accordance with the law and when they apply the means of coercion, then they will be fully protected if they did so legally. And I don't think it's a good idea to suggest or tell them how to get in or not to go in, where to do it, whether to be witnesses or not to be witnesses. It's quite practical, it sounds nice, but I think the law must be equal to everyone. Therefore, you can be sure that the police will not remain in the tactics of action, which is to carry out a certain procedure with the slightest means of coercion. I think that's what I should have answered. I hope these other things about employees I ask you also to make your effort. You know how much we have on our part made there to be as many of them as possible in the schooling and in the reception of candidates, and you have seen for yourself what statistics look like, and that is that we have no interest, or that we do not have the opportunity to solve it in a way that even the members of the national minority are in a selection process to find each other and to change this percentage. Although it is actually slightly higher than 5.5% which is essentially in the European ranking. And this should be used by the Council for Criminal Prevention is a place where these things can be dealt with in a very good way for every settlement and we will continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85879	Thank you very much. Big Kajtazi, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85880	It is true that we have tried all the efforts to employ and that we are one group, the talks we had with the Chief of Police but we have also made so that members of the Roma national minority, those who attended, who ended up still without a job. Here, thank you. So, we tried, we did, but they're still out of a job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85881	Replica response, Minister Ranko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85882	The Honored Mr. Representative has no chance, except that in the schedule of the assignments of the graduates, the school may only be unscheduled and that he has completed his education. So when you say it's out of a job, it's an incorrect piece of information, so it's waiting at this point for a schedule in the police unit, provided it's finished a successful course. ... And that's a possible thing, I repeat, we are now regular schooling, only in this generation have we actually had, but a very small percentage, and neither you nor I have succeeded as we say in this part, which is that we have more candidates here. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85883	You can't double the line. On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85884	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Minister. I wish you a further rapid recovery, given that as a doctor, I know well what situation you were in, and I am pleased to have you back with us and that we can discuss this report by the Ministry of the Interior on the conduct of police affairs in the last year, so in 2013, which I can say by the way that it is technically excellently written, that it can very well inform anyone who carefully and carefully read this text about all aspects that are clearly spoken here. But here I will try to point out some of the moments in this report and, despite the excellence of this report, a little critical of what our citizens are interested in. Namely, your Syntagma, Mr. Minister, to defend you, has twice said you're defending the report. Well, there's nothing to defend. You can only explain this report. So you have no need to defend or defend this report. And I'm saying twice you used the syntagma I came here to defend the report. You have nothing to defend it is not a doctoral dissertation. But good. In 2013, the MUP Republic had 26 thousand to round up employees, which is about 700 less than the previous year. I must say that even in these tables, or charts that are shown here, the spending of funds relative to 2012 has been reduced, so for the needs of the Ministry of Interior by more than 200 million kunas from 4.3 to 4.1 billion kuna. But when we talk about money, then I have to ask the minister who is busy with these other private obligations how much money was spent on a gay parade in Split last year for insurance of the mostly intervention police in order to conduct the event peacefully? Some sources say it's a day or a few hours of expenses of about a million kuna. The same event was recently held in Osijek, so I would like to know even though it was the year 2014 how much it cost in Osijek. There are also some other events in the Republic of Croatia and, above all, the opportunity celebrations where police are also intervening at the assessment of ministers and the risks that exist in such celebrations must at least be present if not intervened and how much money is not reported here for such so-called spending. At least risk according to the assessment of the MUP event in the Republic of Croatia. If we go in line on this report before I go in line then I must commend the work of the MUP and the employees of the MUP in crisis situations and floods, primarily starting with those winter floods in Zagreb and Sisak-Moslavina County in February, March and then in that catastrophic flood in Gunja, Racinovci and Rajev Selo and other villages of Cvelferija, not to list them now and not for a long time. Here on page 1 we are talking about the main strategic objective of the MUP, which is 4 objectives, reduction from the danger of criminal behaviour, then improve prevention of criminal behaviour, improve crime prevention, road safety and strengthen safety at the state border in air traffic and navigation. We have strategic objectives for the first time, so I would ask if these were the same strategic goals that existed in 2012, and in 2011 and 2008 there will be 2015, the 16th and so on. So that's what they're called. General objectives and therefore the MUP exists. These are the objectives that every police, every interior ministry in almost every country has to implement, and no strategic goals like this strategic 5-year-old who was brought here a few days ago on the state of the economy or the strategy of the development of the Republic of Croatia's economy from 2015 to 2020, I'm afraid that this 5-year-old will end up as well as those of the former state. On page 3, point 1, point 2 is replaced by the following: No one here mentioned that there are 20 police departments based in each of our Croatian counties and the City of Zagreb with 185 police stations, of which 139 basic, 20 traffic, 14 border, 6 airport or airport and 6 sea ports at local level. There's been talk and there's still talk of changing the number of police administrations. So here's since the minister is here I'll take the opportunity to ask if it's true and has it given up that there are still 20 police administrations as there are now, with the fact that I'm going to throw an emphasis on the fact that the Slavonski Brod Police Administration is very often mentioned, whose existence is a long-term existence on air-conditioned legs and on the transfer of locations, these police administrations to another city or another city or county center in Slavonia? I'd like to get the minister's answer to that question. In the Republic of Croatia on page 7, it is said that in 2013, 89 thousand, 90 thousand violations are recorded in all regulations governing the issue of public order and peace, which is 1240 or 1.4% less than in 2012 which says that not only this data but also a number of others, that the efficiency of the MUP in all police administrations is better than in previous years, given the reduction in the number of employees and the resources spent from the MIP budget. It's a good fact and it's nice to read in the report that last year there were murders, so with a fatal outcome, deaths were only 41 compared to the year 2012 when there were 51, which is more than 25% reduction. But what concerns me and what citizens often mention and beg me to say to the Minister in my midst, and thank God I have the opportunity to say it right now and that is that, as my colleague Lesar said in Međimurje County, so in Brod-Posavina County there is a large number of thefts and above all agricultural machinery. Let me put it this way: trimmers, lawn mowers, chain saws, etc., and then machines from homes of all kinds, so objects where no one lives or lives occasionally, or someone lives occasionally to have police officers come out to call the one who was stolen, make a record. And here from 2013, I'm not going to say the name or name of the person in a village in Brod-Posavina County who was simply robbed one night, so it's simply been stolen from all these appliances to say agricultural and wooden not to say motorbike and that a year and a half after that there's no feedback on what's with that application. The records were made, whether they entered the procedure at the MUP for further search or not, I don't know. They don't even know the people who were stolen, but there's no answer from the MUP. When we talk about police relations to the population about trust, it is quite established in Croatia. But it wouldn't have been good, Mr. Minister, if one day those who made the record had come into that village and explained to people that it hadn't been traced or traced and where these machines, motors, trimmers, lawn mowers and everyone else who disappeared in the villages of Brod-Posavina County and I believe in other counties. That would be very nice, even if it wasn't a failure, so the record was built, if I said the thief wasn't found, if I called them the real name, but if people were told, unfortunately, that would be very nice, unfortunately we don't have feedback. This year we seem to have seen each other, it doesn't seem to me, but I've seen the police in short, as the English put it, as I'd say the Minister of Transport T-shirts, short-sleeved cotton shirts, is that right. Honestly speaking that blue shirt light, maybe now I have the wrong impression they don't exactly look like what a man would have guessed to say to a cop. If I heard the good news from the media it cost 180 kuna apiece. Believe me, I would recommend an Orljav shirt factory from Požega where prisoners of prison work, women's prison in Požega that produces excellent shirts, excellent quality, summer shorts for up to 100 and in a large amount and for less than 100 to 120 kuna, which would be much better suited to one serious police than to tell T-shirt as it is said, because as our Minister Doncic T-shirts wore by our Croatian police and allegedly cost 180 kuna per piece. If we go further according to this report then we see that during, on page 12 during 2013 it says finding persons and objects. So in conclusion, during 2013, 15 thousand 203 searches and publications were launched for persons and 15 thousand 222 were suspended, so more were suspended than was called. Today, 31.12.2013, 12 thousand 832 were in place to search for persons. At the same time in the same year for missing items and not persons, 159 thousand and 291 were reported and only 44 thousand were suspended, which means that, therefore, there is a search for 110 thousand items. There is a big difference between the number of persons sought and the items sought. That's exactly what I've just painted and explained in those previous sentences that happen with alienated objects here in our villages, in the villages, and I believe that in other counties, especially in Slavonia and Baranja where the crisis is and where people try to get their hands on these little machines of various kinds and shapes to either resell it or sell it. and earned it. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Bring the end.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85885	Thank you. Done [[/Intruder: Done?]] You have to practice before that. [[Intruder: I've only only come to 12 pages.]] On behalf of the SDSS Club, colleague Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85886	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Democratic Serb Party, I would like to express my satisfaction with some of the positive indicators brought by this Internal Affairs Ministry report for 2013 above all by indicators concerning the fall of general crime for nearly 10,000 crimes compared to 2012 which is significant progress. The same is true of course for the downfall of murders, as well as for achieving results in investigations in search of perpetrators who are also quite high. Data relating to the other two types of criminal offences, that means crimes in the area of economic crime and especially in the traffic of intoxicating drugs, are also growth, but I am sure that a more detailed analysis, not the one that speaks about the number of applications and the number of reported cases, but what is estimated is the total state of traffic and drug consumption, as we know in the State's Attorney's office reports, shows that there is still one wide area of actually unoccupied, unreported, unexplored and that in this area, as well as in the area of economic crime, space for progress and space for even better police results. The same could be said, of course, of the crimes in the area of economic crime which has increased by 5.4% and the estimated value of the damage to materialism that has been committed by such acts to nearly a billion and 500 thousand kuna, the indicator that the Ministry of Interior is focusing on its interest after the good results it has in the general criminality could focus on those areas, because this is actually about the greatest damage to the state budget, I suppose, and also the greatest damage to the country's economic interests, and thus economic security. As regards complaints from citizens, performances and anonymous submissions that rose in 2013 compared to 2012 by more than 52%, it would be interesting to see Mr Ministers of nature and complaints, submissions and complaints. More than 90% of these complaints are considered either unfounded or not established, there are no facts which could confirm their justification. It would be of great importance to us if we could determine what it really is. I'd like to ask you if we can get, either now or at any other opportunity, some more detailed information on these indicators. As for the issues of hate crimes spoken of by fellow Kajtazi, this has, unfortunately, increased by 183% over the past year compared to 2012. This is something we warned about last year and during the previous year and here in the Parliament and outside this assembly because often people who acted in political life, including people who act in parliamentary political life, are insensitive to it, and some have contributed. The addition of the motives of vocabulary and the speech of hatred that has come to light in the past few years, especially in the past year, and it has continued in this year, whether it is ethnic, whether it is gender, racial, or politically motivated form of hate speech, often by those who allegedly do so out of Christian love and rarely by those who could not actually speak that kind of language. And for this reason, I think it is extremely important to step up prevention measures and to strengthen co-operation between police and judicial institutions, and also to have a more serious debate on this phenomenon because an increase of 183% compared to 2012 is a very large increase. No form of crime has ever seen such an increase as this. And for those of us who act politically and whose speech is the basic weapon of work is very important to commit ourselves, let's focus on seeing how the police follow it, but at the same time we can help the police to get this type of action in as serious a way as possible from one side to sanction because the sanctions have been settled since the 31st act has been solved. The second question is the judiciary, unfortunately. In many cases, police do their job and when it comes to this type of crime, as well as some other criminal cases, but the judiciary unfortunately does not do its part of the job. I'll give you an example. For six years, a family in the Like area with the illegal holding of cattle, horses and cows, destroying crops, destroying possessions, harassing people until physical beating. The police come out every time people report them, and then when they get to justice, the whole thing ends, the dots don't work. How is that possible? How can police be placed in such a police station that they cannot protect the citizens because they are not protected by the judicial system. How can the Ministry allow such a thing? How can someone at 0.8% of a hectare hold 52 horses and 60 cows? How? And pick up incentives. So should a parliamentary representative or anyone else be looking into whether it's legal? It is clear at first sight that it is not legal and yet violates the law at every turn so that people have to build fences around their properties, around their houses to have elementary security and the case is 6 years old. You ministers must know what case I'm talking about. I'd like to draw attention to one more thing, two actually. One of my colleagues spoke of Kajtazi, and the other I will speak of, and the one he spoke of I will add to the information. The application of the Law on residence, Mr. Minister and respected colleagues and fellow MPs, unfortunately is not used in accordance with the law, with the regulation because uninformed citizens of the Republic of Croatia are being cancelled their identity cards in the consular offices of the Republic of Croatia and are having problems about this. And they complain daily, and now we already have a problem as representatives, and so does the Republic of Croatia. A second question or another phenomenon or another procedure. Citizens are deleted from their place of residence without a procedure conducted by individual police stations under the law of the prescribed procedure. Srdjan Okic of Voćin was erased and he did not know it until he came to the polling post at the time of the parliamentary elections, the elections for the European Parliament. So, the man has a ID, he leaves, he uses it when he goes to the bank, when he goes to other places, and then suddenly he realizes that he's wiped out, that he has to get his ID back. As it is possible to explain this differently than that police officers did not visit the site, they did not inform the person they were supposed to notify and deleted from the residence records illegally. A special case that concerns us in particular is in the Gračac municipality, where 1261 persons, 1261 of them, were wiped out for a year and a half from the residence records, 1261 of them by official duty, of which 234. Therefore, regardless of what the legal provisions say about extending the time limit for early departure from the country or the notification of stay abroad by the end of 2014, officials rushed to do so, which means checking out and thus deleted 234 by official duty and did not have a legal standstill. Were they getting ready for the election? If they were doing other shops, I don't know, but I know it's not their job, and I know that the work they did was not in accordance with the law, but against the law, and in doing so Roberta Vojnović from Gracac was punished by 1500 kuna, the man who is there. Please, Mr. Minister, set up an inspection for this case. It's too many and circumstances are such that they require that inspection be done. And finally, as for the hate speech that my colleague Keatazi and I spoke of, he was unfortunately accompanied by damage to property, objects, cemetery and attacks on persons. And we recorded them last year much more than in 2012 or 2011. There are several places where cemeteries are damaged, memorial tombs, monuments. In several places, incursions were carried out violently in the premises of the minority councils of the Serb national minority or the assets of natural persons were destroyed, as was the case with the 60-year-old population of the Imotski area. In particular, monuments of the victims of fascism and monuments of anti-fascist uprisings are often attacked and destroyed in various areas. Mr. Minister, we know you can't have a cop in front of every place, but I suggest you find the means to make the public sensitive to this thing. I'm sure there's a way to do that. Finally, when it comes to representation of members of the national minorities concerned, colleagues and colleagues, when it comes to representation in police services of 8 point few percent of the members of the national minorities in the Republic of Croatia in the police, 4.27% were represented. Data from the beginning of 2013 Of these, members of the Serb minority have 2.86%. If it were as evenly represented, Mr. Minister, then maybe we'd say okay, but it's not. In Zadar County, representation is 0.3%. The Serbian population in the Zadar County is a domicile population. Požega County 0.8%, Lice 1.27% And carlovacki 1.81%. [[Intruder Stazic: Bring the end, I will pray nicely.]] And so I could count, but I respect the prescribed time. I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, thank my colleagues and colleagues for their hearing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85887	We'll hear three replicas on this exhibit. The first is the esteemed colleague of the Iron Happy Flego, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85888	My esteemed colleague is actually a quasi-replic because I'm not complaining to you, I'm not asking you anything, but I'm trying to complement you in the part where you talked about the hate speech. The hate speech is humiliating, offensive, eliminated and basically hate speech is the first step or a kind of call to conflict, to violence. And hate speech in this sense has its far-reaching consequences both psychologically and materially and socially and politically and therefore numerous. I therefore invite you, both colleagues and colleagues in the assembly, and Mr. Minister, to engage in international anti-hate activities, to join the international initiative to introduce the Day of Victims of hate speech and to make different forms of campaigns not only between us adults but also among children in schools, in kindergartens sometimes about what brings hate speech and how to prevent and prevent it. Here, that would be my own appeal. I'll contribute to him as much as I can, but I'm counting on your help.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85889	The replica matches Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85890	Dear colleague Flego, of course, I join your call for increased sensitivity and increased activity when it comes to our public hate speech, in our public space. What was once characteristic only of people who represented the exclusive political attitudes here in the Parliament or outside the Parliament during the 1990s, given the times that were such that it could even be understood to some extent that people fail to control their attitudes and their emotions. But the fact that we today a year after we became a member of the EU, not so many more of the people who act in political life than individuals, but to hear from prominent representatives of the Church of a message which unfortunately is hate messages to political, ethnic and other different members is absolutely worrying. And for this reason, it is of great importance that not only the police but all of us start talking about it like you, and I thank you for that, have joined this humble contribution to this topic during the afternoon debate in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85891	Another replica, respected Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85892	Mr. Vice President, I'm going to replicate something similar in the spirit of what my colleague said, as he replicated Flego's esteemed colleague, Pupovac, who is most of them, here you are colleague of most of his debate, and it's commendable he spent it precisely on analysis and your accent is right in suppressing hate speech. Because everything that is, with full right, you rightly pointed out, namely, that the police in many cases and she has just been sensitised for these forms of criminal acts or inciting crimes, but often others in a series and in that chain of repression and condemnation often fail. However, it is important that the first-invited police are more sensitised, but the fact that such crimes are more and more revealed in this mandate. What my colleague Flego said is a big problem, unfortunately, and it is precisely waking us up from Croatia as an EU country because it has become a major problem in the EU at the time of the economic crisis when many are just about to take advantage of the economic crisis to invite people, to show that the other, that foreigner, is guilty of the crisis. Well, you see, today it's no longer a secret, it's an Internet buzz about kids in German kindergartens who can't speak yet drawing hook crosses and stuff because they learned it at home. We are still at greater risk of this in Europe, but we have to vigorously prevent such attempts and in our own betrayals. Because every evil that has happened in the last century and that has happened recently to us was first the word of hatred, and then it has gone on to act in a fatal way with fatal consequences.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85893	Thank you. The replica corresponds to the esteemed Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85894	Dear colleagues Antičević-Marinović unfortunately the problem of our society, apart from the economy and the economic crisis and other than the lack of consolidation of our institutions, is actually the presence of hatred. Yeah, then released in different situations like hate speech. And we can see now what are the basic sources of that hatred, who are those who are actually restoring that hatred, and some we mentioned. But one thing is certainly important, we often talk and talk about having to speak properly in our own language in Croatian, and very rarely we talk about it. How tolerance we need to be in that language, how careful we should be when we speak that language, and how much we must avoid words that will awaken or spread hatred, it is unfortunately our problem that so few people in this country are concerned about, including those whose work is the same as ours, and we are talking about media space. Not only on the portal forums, but unfortunately in newspaper texts as well. There are media that have a license that does nothing but produce daily hate for political, ethnic or racial differences, daily even if they are called.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85895	The third line is respected Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85896	Dear fellow Pupovac, a short time ago, Flego said he would give the quasi replica and my quasi replica, however, is not the only complaint. The replica can also be a compositing, and I've already shared it here from the dictionary of the chair of my colleague Stazic. Comrade Pupovac, you said the police couldn't put a cop in front of every monument and that cop was guarding a monument, that's correct, and the police are powerless there. But we as a society, especially politicians, can create a social climate in which it is unacceptable to destroy monuments, in which it is unacceptable to see differences. We need to create a climate against hate speech, and we don't create it. If you remember the case law and the case law tolerates your punishments, there were several cases in which those who in the media every day sow hate speech were freed from any responsibility. This has given the incentive that this hate speech is booming, and that hate speech by the police where they can contain it, can still be tolerated at football matches, and that's where they're still being tolerated, and that's where the police bear great responsibility and guilt, and it's the biggest on us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85897	On behalf of the HDZ Club, the respected Ivan Shantek will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85898	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is a report from the Ministry of Interior on police operations in 2013. I would remind you on November 14, 2013 we discussed here a report for 2012 when we warned in front of the HDZ Club that it was a more general report with certain shortcomings but unfortunately there is also a report in this report. Last time, among other things, we stated in the report that there was no precise and reasoned data on the spending of financial resources. It is good that the minister is this time more than the last time he... said in this segment at a press conference when presenting the results of the report for the past year that the MIP budget has been increased compared to the previous period, noting that the implementation of the costs includes the work of the entire ministry and that there has been increased engagement in relation to preventive activities in the field of the work of the basic police, border police, criminal police, as well as the fulfilment of obligations under national action plans such as those. trafficking in human beings, drug abuse, etc., and all of this requires higher costs, as the minister then stated, which is logical. But here in this report I will look back on just a few segments of this report. In this part when it comes to human resources, there is not mentioned one situation that I believe should be mentioned, although we have discussed the situation here recently in the Croatian Parliament when adopting a credible interpretation of the law. Namely, colleagues and colleagues today all remember the big shift in the police in 2012 when the new minister decided to change the people in the police's leading posts and then, during the night, he declared 2439 jobs available and opened an internal tender for them. In fact, the minister declared the jobs that had been filled. people who have worked in those places for years with valid solutions have been relieved of their duties, and in their places other people have been appointed, and we know what was the consequence of such a decision, there have been a number of lawsuits to the Administrative Court, and the Administrative Court has also made several inadmissible judgments in which they are ordered to return to their posts. It is a sign of one in the shift, which he said in one daily newspaper: 4 months since 15 October 2012. By 13 February 2013, he came to work at his police station and sat in the halls." That 4 months neatly paid by the police station chief even though a new chief was working at my workplace. The pay, of course, was given to him. So from the state budget they were both paid for the same job. And after the Croatian Parliament gave a credible interpretation and an article of the law at the government's request, and we all remember under what circumstances it was brought to be without a quorum, then the quorum was collected afterwards. There remains a dispute with the police union, so it would not be bad if the situation were further clarified on this occasion, i.e. to say whether the MUP will have to compensate for the damage caused by that decision. They referred to this report and to the section on the state of public order and peace, which points out that there were 89 thousand 928 violations in 2013 under all regulations governing the issue of public order and peace, which is 1240 or 1.4% less than in 2012. In doing so, the violation of the Law against Public Order and Peace is 25.5%, according to the other laws 73 and 0.6 by the decisions of local authorities. Therefore, under the applicable Law on Public Order and Peace Violation, the number of violations has been reduced, so it is unclear why the Ministry of Interior referred through the Government to the parliamentary procedure of the Proposed Law on Public Order and Peace, which is the law which is now on the agenda, it is P.Z. No. 172, which waits very long to come to the debate so almost two years, October 4 will be two years. And yet it is among the last points of the agenda, which is a sign and a sign that this law will not actually be discussed at all. Unlike the previous report in this report, the Schengen and accession of the Republic of Croatia to the Schengen area are mentioned a little bit more, and here is the minister's explanation, so there's no point in now following the new acceptive. There is also an increase in the number of criminal offences reported from the domain of economic crime which only says that we still have a lot of work to do and that the Republic of Croatia is unfortunately again in the area of smuggling channels. We see that in 2013 there has been an increase in corruption crimes by 135% compared to 2012 and 96% of these crimes constitute abuse of positions and powers, receiving and giving bribes, which is a shift in the previous situation. However, the report does not assess the dark number of this type of crime since the perception of corruption in the Republic of Croatia is very high and therefore dark in some situations, it is known to me to be much higher. I'm familiar with the situation that in the event of a rape at 10 rapes, there's only one reported. Dark numbers are very important for each report because the reports are good, statisticalally they are very accurate, however, there is always the question which is a dark number especially in these situations when it comes to corruption and when the perception of corruption in the Republic of Croatia is very high. We also warned in the last report that we could not be satisfied with the state of information security, i.e. the state of cybersecurity. The report says that strengthening the capacity of the MUP in the fight against cybercrime should begin in the first quarter of 2014, the draft contract was drawn up and the signing is expected by the end of March. I believe that this is a very important part and that this may need to be given more attention, to point out the importance of the strategy in the fight against cyber-hazards. Here's the report that in 2013 729 crimes in the work of computer crime were recorded, which is an increase of 38.1%. So it is obvious that the figure is not negligible and that it needs to be dealt with more. Furthermore, we see from the report that 2520 complaints, statements and public submissions were seized in 2013 and related to police officers' actions, which is 52% more than in 2012. However, 90% of the total number of performances solved 2238 internal control services assessed unfounded and unconfirmed and only 3.4% were established and 5.7% partly. We are witnesses, namely, to the media of all kinds of situations, and we believe that in this part too, more attention should be given, by the fact that you yourself stated in the report at the outset that it is also a very important perception. So there's this statistic that's run for every cop, every police station and police department. However, it is also important that this part, therefore, is whether citizens, with confidence, address a police officer or are going to ignore him and feel that it is not good to approach a police officer at all. Finally, I must say on behalf of the HDZ Club that the HDZ Club has no reason not to support this report as statistical facts and data, however, we believe that these are very important issues that we have raised and that due to the importance of the Ministry of Interior for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, we know what the role of the MUP is in this segment of the security of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85899	Thank you. We've got two lines reported. First, a colleague, Josip Djakic, applied. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85900	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, Shantek, you've made quite a statement as described in this report, but what really concerns is a credible interpretation of the law and the application of the law and the retroactive application of those 2439 who, according to the first degree judgment of the administrative court, would not want to interpret it as you have pointed out yourself because it is neither good to interfere with judicial decisions. But we have experience in previous years also of government when Mr. Minister was the Director of Police and then there was a series of layoffs, shifts, and court proceedings. Trade unions have done their job, the judiciary has also been an independent body and millions of compensations paid with tight interest cost the Republic of Croatia. We are afraid that even now and this time, under the quotes, there are "free" jobs when they are appointed not party, because there are no more parties and partying in the police, but those who were probably similar to the police today. There are some results on drugs and crime, but they complain that the reduction of salaries of all costs, equipment and everything else is really neglected as a service that needs to be and must lead to independent security for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And I therefore think that another additional cost will be on the burden of the budget in view of the enormous claims which follow from 2439 removed and unscheduled.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85901	Replication response, Ivan Shantek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85902	My dear colleague, you have made me very well. I didn't mean to spread this subject on purpose, but I just wanted to hear the clarification here because the worst situation that can happen among the police, that they begin to share themselves in similar and inappropriate, so to speak conditionally left and right, and that every change in political power, there is a situation of this kind between the police. I wouldn't want to remind myself again here of the situation that has arisen, but I must, in choosing the president of the republic who was chosen to do so. It was a very unpleasant situation which is here and today creeping out among the cops and unfortunately they still look at each other with some kind of mistrust at each other, trying to answer a fundamental question whose are you. Well, everyone should be the police of the Republic of Croatia. I think it's important, and that's exactly why I asked for this to be further clarified and said once and for all, that such situations will never be repeated again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85903	The second replica, the esteemed Hrvoje Neklic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85904	Comrade Shantek, so I must admit that it is interesting how you managed to mention the meaning of a major shift of personnel in 2012, but it is also interesting that you failed to mention the way and time of appointment of management staff in 2011 so I would ask you to explain it to us if possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85905	Replication response, Ivan Shantek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85906	My dear colleague, I deliberately didn't want to go back to the time of last government because I would have to tell you then, and now I'm going to tell you. Well, the HDZ government just made a decision in the last term to depolitise the police, so no police officer can be a member of any party. What am I talking about?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85907	Minister Ranko Ostojic has now come to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85908	Mr. Vice President, dear colleague. I think it's good to talk about both this topic and to say the exact details, although I'm surprised how many criticisms you're giving to Mr. Karamark, he's still the president of the HDZ. It's quite surprising to me because since you say I've decided to replace 2400 people, and it's about the police law that was passed and proposed by Minister Tomislav Karamarko and who also carried out the contest the same way you wrote it in the Police Act. Well, I guess it's clear to everyone that the police director's place hasn't been emptied, he was Mr. Grbic, every police chief was at the same job and you can't separate them from some of the executive officers without others. Secondly, we'll believe that the police were really depolished because if you kill the information that I didn't hire a single police officer who wasn't or enrolled at the police academy. Therefore, there is neither one, nor one in the part that is secret, which means in the PKK or in transactions that are under special security, there is no need for a public tender or anything like that. So everyone who's been in this contest, and we've just done the following, we've opened an internal tender that only employees who work in the police can participate in. I repeat, I hired no one. So they were all depoliticized cops, as you say, and I'll believe you. And all of them in that internal competition came into a situation to fill the executive jobs. There were only 47 complaints in total. 90% of the police officers in those 2400s stayed in charge of police officers because we don't have others. And a credible interpretation was needed precisely for this reason, which is for someone to answer whether it will be done selectively, and that means that there are certain places. Or next, and this is that a concrete example for Deputy Chief Director of Police, Mr. Brkic left the post and, according to your interpretation of the law, a new deputy should be chosen by an internal ad for five years, and the second who found himself in that post remains until retirement. The right way is to call an internal tender for everyone. The most important thing of all is that they were all actually employees inside and there was no going in outside and everyone said 90% of the executives stayed in those places. Speaking of 2003, it is true that 932 police officers were out of work, but 1080 were only with primary school. No 3,500 and no one's ever sued for it. The lawsuits were for overtimes that weren't paid, and that's something that's true. And for that reason, I would say in the end that it's positive that this third year we're still going after the team, which is that this is our police force and it's important for us that it works well. Therefore, it may have been difficult to say, but I am glad that after three years we have the opportunity to still have the support for certain results the police have achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85909	It is too late to report, but Josip Djakic answered in time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85910	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, yes it is true that the Croatian police were depolitized during the time the HDZ exercised its duties and authority which was probably both directed and necessary and necessary in view of the entry into the European Union into impartiality and everything else. Until then, however, there are clear records of who was where and who the party belonged to and who had frozen their membership. And let's not demagoguely outwit ourselves who what and why. The internal competitions and commissions that decided on it are clear who formed them and who chose them and left it behind. The results are important. Like you said, the results that say there are certain shifts in work, in some yes, in some no. There's too many dead in traffic that's a fact we can't escape. What do you need to do? Whether they're just action and presence on the street of police officers and regular control or there are some other things that can be done. But that there was a time when you were the head of the hunger strikers here at Mark's Square, cops who went home without a thing, who were for no reason only removed because they belonged to the HDZ. You can't argue with that and that's the fact that it was. Non-payment of overtime, non-purchasing of necessary equipment, vehicles. Well, you left the M.O.A. out of gas, and on foot, they had to act on their duties, they had nothing to drive.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85911	Thank you. Minister Ranko Ostojic answers on the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85912	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's the specifics again. We're going to take the year 2010 of 426 people killed in traffic. 2011 418, 2012. 393, 2013 368. I hope this argument speaks of the fact that it is also a shift for the better and that there are fewer fatalities. This year's trend is just as good. As for the people you say that they strike that hunger out front, they, of course, as I said before, did not, no matter what I was head of police, means not the person who hired but was in the hands of the ministry. I repeat, they didn't get fired because they were members of HDZ, but because they didn't meet the conditions that they could be police officers, and that's because of that, the one who told them that they could work with primary school at the Ministry of the Interior and be police officers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85913	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the SDP club, the respected Franco Vidovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85914	Honorable Vice President, Honorable Minister, Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. In 2013 in order to achieve the main strategic objective, and it certainly reduced the risk of criminal behaviour, the police focused their overall activity on 4 priority targets. Improve prevention of criminal behaviour, improve crime prevention, increase road safety, and strengthen safety at the state border in air traffic and navigation. Indeed, 65 million kunas more than 2012 have been spent on achieving the programme itself. But here's what my colleagues have already realized before me that the results are even better. The first specific objective is to highlight improving the prevention of criminal behaviour. This report shows that 89928 violations were recorded in 2013 under all regulations governing the issue of public order and peace, which is 1240 or 1.4% less than in 2012. The police seek to be permanently present in critical places in order to prevent or directly combat as many criminal acts as possible, while in violation of the Law on Public Order and Peace, they account for 25.9% and 73.9% under other laws, and according to the decisions of local authorities, 0.6% and perhaps that is what should be done because I believe that local authorities should still participate more actively, i.e. that the police should respond better to these calls. What we should be particularly concerned about is the frequency of violations under the Family Protection Act, which is 14335 compared to 14874 in 2012, i.e. 15.9% of all violations. In 2013, police received 341314 reports of events or about 935 a day on average through operational police stations, police administrations and police administrations. The Police Directorate's project "Police act publicly and the public assesses" has received a positive result, but citizens' reports have dropped by about 46.2%. In addition to these activities, police have carried out tasks in the description of the work of the intervention police through intervention units. Compared to 2012, there was an increase in the number of assistance from employed employees and spent working hours. 176828 hours of work, which is an increase of 75.6%. The means of coercion were used by intervention officers 760 times compared to 2012 when it was used 870 times and each time consistently applied the principle of necessity that justified the use of force to the limit of legal effect. In 2013, there were also 19275 public gatherings. On a smaller number, i.e. There have been public order and peace violations at 104 gatherings, and 1713 people have been detained. 52 criminal charges and 1739 criminal charges were filed because of the riots. At the public gatherings, 134 citizens were injured, 9 of which were severely injured. Twenty-two police officers were injured in ensuring public gatherings, one of which is more serious. From the security point of view of the major gatherings, Split comes to 3rd gay, Zagreb comes in 2013, then peaceful gatherings and public protests of defenders and other associations for the introduction of bilingual inscriptions in Vukovar, regular elections for local and regional self-government, manifestations about the marking of significant anniversarys from the Homeland War, peaceful gatherings and public protests of various family rights promotions related to the introduction and implementation of health education in schools, the organisation of signing and holding of referendums to introduce a provision for the marriage of women and men of life, the collection of signatures for the opening of referendums on the amendment of the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities, a series of concerts of foreign music stars, among which I would like to come from Sibenik, which I would like to separate Terrana in Sibenik, which is not opposed to the authorities in 2014. During 2013, 15 203 searches and publications were launched for persons, and 15 222 were suspended. On 31.12.2013, 12 832 search and publication for persons were in place. Special police are doing police work in high-risk situations such as kidnappings, hostage situations, dangerous pursuits, dangerous arrests, risky insurance and demonstrations. During 2013, members of the Special Police carried out 383 operational tasks, which is 23.6% less than the previous year, of which 23 crisis situations, hostage crises, negotiating interventions and the like. It is important for 2013 to sign the Declaration of Accession of the RS Special Police in the organisation of ATLAS and to obtain new aircraft for the Air Force. In 2013, 60 explosions were reported in our country, down 14.3% from 2012. In these explosions, unfortunately human casualties were recorded, 16 people died. Of the 14 killed in the explosions of the formation-explosive means, 12 people only activated them, so they committed suicide. The second special goal of the police in 2013 is to improve the fight against crime. Crime as a total of all criminal offences which occurred in a particular area for a certain period causes two thirds of all harmful and tragic consequences in the area of public security. A significant part of crime remains undiscovered for many reasons, and society suffers from adverse consequences. Undiscovered crime is hiding in the so-called The dark number of crime which the minister also spoke of in the introduction, and the criminological assessment has been made that only one fifth of the total crime rate has really been lit up. In the Republic of Croatia, police record about 120,000 crimes annually. Of that, about 90,000 police find out on the way to a tip, and the remaining 30,000 finds out on their own. In 2013, 104 793 crimes were recorded, which is 4.3% lower than in 2012. If we add to that a 5-year criminal record for possession of a drug that is now being penalized, the total number would be almost equal to last year. 60.1% has been resolved, and that's a 1.1%) score better than last year. In 2013, 1849 acts of organised crime were recorded, and those crimes were committed by 1063 people. The material damage done by these crimes was estimated at $11 million, 67 thousand, 652 kuna. Compared to the previous year, the number of these works increased by 134.5%. The number of suspects for 119.2%, but the material damage is almost halved by 48%. And I must stress this increase is probably due to a change in the Penal Code. The most significant increase records the crimes of illicit possession of weapons and explosive materials and as much as 851%). It should be noted here that the operational action "Pegaz" carried out by the Croatian police produced exceptional results and, unlike in 2012, when 484 criminal acts of illicit holding of weapons were reported in 2013 were better by 106.4%. 13 crimes of human trafficking, 204 cases of counterfeiting and 176 crimes of illegal entry, movement and residence in the Republic of Croatia have been detected. It is also an interesting increase in the detection of criminal acts of criminal association. This type of work was reported in 118, which is 337% higher than in 2012. A good part of the criminal offences mentioned was identified through the operational actions carried out in 2013 and this Operational Action "Kaštel", Operational Action "South – first and second phase", Operational Action "Kadam – first and second phase". In 2013, 6315 crimes of economic crime were detected, suspected of 2344 persons. Compared to the previous year, the number of crimes increased by 5.4% and the suspect was less by 3.9%. Corruption crimes were reported in 1940, of which 45.9% of the crimes committed by abuse of position and authority, 26.9% of the grant, 23.5% of the bribe received, while all the other acts in this group are 6%. Corruption crimes have been reported more than 135.2%. The extent of the evil involved is evident from the report. The material damage caused by corruption is 941 million 965 thousand 674 kuna. The focus of the anti-corruption effort shall be placed on the parallel implementation of financial investigations in all criminal acts in which material damage has been committed or the unlawful acquisition of property benefit has been established, in particular in corruption cases, irregularities in connection with the procurement procedure, and all for the purpose of raising the effectiveness of criminal persecution and the establishment of an illegal property benefit so that it can be taken away through criminal proceedings. Also, the focus is on curbing internal corruption, within the Croatian Ministry of Interior. In 2013, the police also engaged in financial investigations, in connection with which amendments to the law on criminal proceedings entered into force on 15 December 2013, gave slightly broader powers to the state's attorney and redefining the concept of investigators, which now includes, with the notion of investigator, the concept of financial investigator. In 2013, police also dealt with money laundering and high-tech crime. With the prevention of high-tech crime and significant strengthening of administrative capacities and norms and accepts... a project within IPA 2011, strengthening the capacity of the MUP in the fight against cybercrime that started in the first quarter of 2014. In 2013, police also worked to combat the grey economy, found and sanctioned the most common legal forms of the gray economy, the sale of goods on black, illegal employment, the smuggling of excise goods, the conclusion of loan agreements and the illegal loans are also on the rise as a result of the economic crisis and the reduction of credit, so... Croatian citizens are entitled to credit with financial institutions. By passing a series of laws, and in particular the Consumer Credit Act, this matter is substantially placed in the relevant legal frameworks. The penal law, which entered into force on 01.01.2013, decriminalized the unauthorized possession of drugs and passed into the scope of the offence. Otherwise, according to data from previous years, the crime of unauthorized drug possession accounted for 70% of drug crimes reported. The new Law on Criminal Procedure has introduced major changes in the methodology of police work because the appropriateness of the State Attorney's Office regarding drug crime has changed, but regardless of all changes, the real state and movement of drug abuse has not changed, which means stability, continuity and certain trends. On the subject of general crime involving every... crime and violence, property crime and all other criminalities that are not classified in previous categories, 50 thousand 217 acts were reported, which is 10.9% less than in 2012. In this segment, there are a large number of works with the unknown perpetrator and there is a large rate of 36.4% discovery fee. If we place 25 thousand 333 resolved crimes and reported cases in the reporting period, the resolution coefficient is 50.4%. The murders were less than 10 out of 51 reported murders in 2012, so 41, representing a 19.6% drop. 36 or 87.8% have been resolved. 124 assassination attempts have been recorded, 5 of which remain unsolved. These are 24 cases, or 24% higher. Seventy-two rapes have been reported, two of which remain unsolved. Police also worked on crime of special security significance where the number of 57 crimes was recorded, which is 31.3% less than the previous year. Then 22 war crimes committed during the Homeland War were recorded and 26 possible locations of mass or individual tombs were confirmed. What characterizes this report is the application of the new method of efficiency of police work applied for 2011, 2012 and will be applied in the 2014 report most likely which differs from the method of use of previous years. We stress that further improvement is needed, that it is necessary to go to global European models to measure the success of police because the model we are currently using shows however certain shortcomings described in the report. We at the SDP club hold that this report in terms of the amount of data and transparency is more complete than in previous years, that work is We fully support the report by the Minister of the Interior on police affairs in 2013. [[Invader Batinić: Bring the end.]] And if I may add only in the end, here, I'm sorry that under the Law on the Police, which has been passed by the previous ruling majority, there is no present here today and the Director of the Police whose report is actually.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85915	In the name of the HSU club, the respected Maria Ilic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85916	The Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister. The HSU Club will accept a report on police operations in 2013. Of course, with some comments and suggestions he holds so that they can influence the more successful work of the police, i.e. the MUP. Of course, as in any work and police work that is part of the MUP could be even better if they were respected, I would say well-intentioned remarks from the field, so police stations, and in particular local communities, which should be closely linked to the joint resolution and repression of crime. The report says that in order to meet its mission, to achieve its main strategic goal, to reduce the risk of criminal behaviour, police have focused their activities on 4 specific objectives, and as the first more effective prevention of criminal behaviour and crime control, and we agree that this is the main strategic objective. We are therefore surprised that this report did not look back, i.e. singled out as a special display on a very important segment, which is the Council for the Prevention of Crime in local communities. The report should certainly provide information on the actions of local community police to prevent crime through these councils, so this symbiosis is very important for the priority of the main strategic objective, to reduce the risk of criminal behaviour. It has been known that local self-governments have been suggested to establish a council for the prevention of local communities, therefore, a very important link in this chain which we hold to be of great importance in resolving crime, especially when we are familiar with the fact that such councils work in certain EU countries that attach great importance to this institute. Therefore, on the basis of my personal experience, I consider the Council for Prevention to contribute to the prevention of crime in particular in smaller cities and rural areas. The Institute of Communal Prevention can be extremely effective in preventing criminal phenomena, but so far very little has been given to importance, and even less has provided funds for this purpose. The funds for this purpose simply must be found in the state budget because they are not and must never be expensive and must not be burdensome. We pay a far higher price when a criminal act or crime occurs because the damage they cause is not only material, they are far greater and more difficult because they create victims of crime that cannot be compensated by any money but of course suffers and society as a whole. We believe that a good idea has been underestimated that would certainly give birth to good results because without symbiosis, the local community, the police are less and less likely to prevent crime. Disdaining the so-called "supervision". small problems at local level and underestimating the issue of public order and peace and behavioural disorders is one of the applicable I would say delusions. And right now, the Council for Prevention of Local Communities could act there so that these petty problems don't turn into one serious problem tomorrow, as it does eventually. It is therefore necessary for the police to assist and, with the police, to engage a wider social community than city and municipal offices, public city enterprises, inspection services, educational and social workers, health homes, educational and educational institutions, religious communities, local committees, state's attorneys, criminal courts, of course very important associations of parents and media. And as a particularly important factor in the participation of citizens as individuals because without their cooperation it would be impossible to achieve any prevention plan already at the beginning. But here we would also like to emphasise the very important role and contact of the police officer that I think is also underrated, which is not mentioned in the report, and there is no evaluation, which has proved to be effective in local environments which have also taken seriously the Council for Prevention and Contact Officers who should also have one of the main roles for success in the work of the council. His presence proved extremely effective during the night hours from 22.00 to 5.00 a.m. when according to indicators, the highest incidence of public order and peace and behavioural disorders occurred. Crime isn't just a police problem and it's hard to solve for itself, crime is the whole community's problem. Therefore, the prevention councils in local communities need to be laid down by law as mandatory, and what is most important is to monitor the work and the results of the work in order to see the importance of their existence. Prevention of crime in local communities through councils is an uplifting way I'd say a new level of police development in the community. Therefore, in every police administration, as far as I know, there are units of crime prevention with 5 to 6 employees of higher education professionals. On the basis of this fact, they should have information in the report on what they have achieved, in cooperation with the Councils for the Prevention of Crime in the Local Community, which the problems of relations within the members of the Council, etc. We don't have feedback or have turned into a full administration. There is no cooperation, no partnership, no communication of coordinated actions, no feedback on what has been done, and that is exactly what should be the task of the Prevention Council and of all the entities I have previously listed. Because the primary goal of the police as public service is prevention in the first place, at least it should be, and then there's repression. Dear Ministers, looking at your report, I must say that it is evident that there has been reduced crime, reported crimes generally committed in 2013 compared to 2012 and that in some segments is a reduction of 5 to 10%, which we hold to be not negligible. Looking at the second year, I have to say that it can't be attributed to all the work of the Prevention Department that exists for as long as I can remember for about five years, but I think it's somewhere in memory. Because before the establishment of the Prevention Department there were projects, i.e. as you call them in an operational action report that the ministry has regularly implemented before, for example. now at the beginning of the school year called "Respect Our Signs" focused primarily on the first-class, which is part of the National Road Safety Programme of the Republic of Croatia, and "Peace and Good" which has been implemented for 19 years during Christmas and New Year's holidays with the aim of preventing the abuse of weapons, explosive things and other killings and, of course, other projects. Therefore, this reduction cannot, of course, be attributed to the Department of Prevention in almost all segments because I think you would say so in this report. I have to look back at the work of my police administration that I come from, which is the police administration of Osijek-Baranja, which belongs to another category and comparing it to other administrations in the same category as other administrations. Indeed, I must commend the fact that our administration on the total number of reported so-called crimes of the general criminality most said and interested in and who, in the total number of crimes alone, account for about 80% of them, has a resolution of 73% and the subsequent discovery activity is 66.4%, which bounces from others in view of the number of criminal offences reported and most and category of police administration. But of course I don't want to single out any police departments, but let's just say that's a suggestion and an example... other administrations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course not all but in the interest of improving the work and efficiency of the police officers themselves. Regardless of the above, police work must also be mentioned on the ground with one example and it is about a lower leader in almost every police station, which is the leader of the sector. He used to be an alpha and omega of every police station, spent more time on the ground, getting to know his sector and directly taking part in the performance of all tasks along with his patrols. Now that I'm familiar with it, it doesn't come out of the police station because it's crowded by some writings of various reports, work schedules and police officers' work orders. So, there was one, and it came down to one cabinet work. Although it is not relevant in 2013 I must note that it is known to me that this year, on 1 February, a pilot of a new organisation and organisation of work in third category police stations was launched and that it was completed in July of this year and the objective was just to increase the operational coverage of the police station area and to make it more flexible to organise police affairs according to the requirements of each specific environment, to reduce administrative burden and to make the operational engagement of police officers and to make police stations more efficient, more cost-effective with a reduction in the costs incurred by the police station. I mentioned this precisely because you allegedly ended this pilot project in which you naturally spent a certain part of the resources and which aimed primarily at that particular sector leader that I mentioned back where he belongs and that's his sector, his neighborhood, his street and his police officers. But what's done is I don't have the information I know is that he's back in the office and they've turned him into a scribe, of course not insulting that interest because it's still a police officer with responsibilities that unfortunately the terrain doesn't see and according to the job description has to be in the field 70 to 80% of the time. And that's exactly what we advocate the 24-hour presence of police on the street that would thus ensure prevention, achieve better co-operation with the councils and what, of course, has created a better sense of security for every citizen by affecting the most favourable state of public order and peace. Finally, representatives of the Croatian Pensions Party will accept a report on police work for 2013 but with the suggestion that the police must draw closer to the citizens in order to make all citizens feel safer with the note that in the approach to countering crime, the most important thing is that the police do not act alone and that I am through this debate, which I have thrown the accent on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85917	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, a respected counterpart, Nada Turina-Đuric, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85918	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to congratulate our minister on his rapid recovery and his tenacity, assuming that our police are as tough as he is and that he will continue to carry out his duties successfully. This report is comprehensive with a very large number of data that can be compared, put into correlation. What is of course important to us as representatives and the public in general is that police as a mirror in some way a state or perhaps an institution that, at the first meeting, is actually a state as such, represents a state, it is extremely important how it works and how it acts. And it's also extremely important what is the efficiency of this entire system. This report shows that there are no significant changes in the statistical type by certain segments of crime, but here I will try very briefly to point out some of the things that we have noticed that have a certain leap in the increase in crime and that, in fact, through the analysis itself, the report is not clearly highlighted why it happened. For example, in organized crime, we have 11 million kuna damage, which may not be such a terrible data, but the most crime was in illicit weapons possession, making and getting weapons, then trading people 550% is an increase. And we hope, or I hope that this is actually an increase that has been shown actually better police work, that is, to devote the police to these priorities, and not something that has grown here because it really has, or because police have always done this job on a continuous basis. Last year, there was this increase. It's the same thing about counterfeiting money and criminal association. So 42% counterfeit money and criminal association. These areas of crime that have not obviously been up until recently in the focus of our police attention and occupation, I guess they're now beginning to come out and that this activity that we're seeing in the coming years will have information that will talk about how we've prevented these criminal acts from happening. Unfortunately, this report also shows that through the economic crime that unfortunately there is still a very high degree of corruption in our society and in the economy, but in general these data on bribery and bribes that have been reported, and we assume that a large number of those who have never been reported and who have not been processed are unfortunately very, very corrupt society and that our index is too high and that we cannot be satisfied with it. All that is being processed, of course we are glad that the proceedings are ongoing but also of course the effectiveness, the speed of resolving these procedures and bringing these proceedings to the courts and their epilogue, whatever it is, it would be good to be as short as possible and to be much more efficient there. Converting crime, it's a bit surprising that only 46 proceedings are under way. It mentions, of course, some of the most significant investigations of crime in the economy, in MTC, in education, unfortunately, which for many years has actually been being dragged into something that has not been solved in the courtroom yet, but where the whole investigation may have been too long and the public certainly expected it to be resolved in a much shorter time. Unfortunately, drug crime has no significant change, so one statement in one sentence in the report, nothing has changed which means stability, continuity and trends, which is one sentence that says that unfortunately we failed, but of course it is not the police who are guilty of it but as a society that manages to fight in the right way to make these figures better. What is the crime of violence, so what I think is good data, we had 41 murders, of which 36 were solved, and by these indicators we absolutely don't bounce with the countries that we compared ourselves with in this analysis, means with countries in the region, or some European countries that I consider to be relatively good, although of course it's never good to have such cases at all. So is rape where 72 were recorded in the report, and only two remain unsolved. It is something that is commendable and certain to be stressed because citizens can see some kind of security in this area, so the police are effective in these cases. It's just a little bit more about property crime, which is 76.8% of the total crime. What's not good data is that 95.9% are unknown perpetrators, and only 33.8% of these cases are solved, or the perpetrators are found out. I think our citizens are particularly sensitive to this because, unfortunately, we have here by the indications of an awful lot of such petty break-ins, marauding where our people's assets are concerned and where we haven't done enough as a society. So it's not the only police who are guilty and can't find for sure anyone who commits such a crime, but the fact is that we haven't done enough with our citizens to possibly educate and help the police prevent such property crime or reduce the number of such acts. As for traffic safety, the trend of reducing the number of traffic accidents continued, and here it is not good to return to the past, but when we see the fact that we returned to the figures from 1964 and 368 killed in the past year, respectively. So sometimes it's good to say in the past in '64. when there was significantly less traffic and traffic and traffic in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, these are certainly good data. What I'd like to use just for the last time as the head of a local self-government is that maybe, not perhaps, but surely in smaller local self-government, we all felt a reduction in police standards. So there's a police presence in our premises. Every less place back 10, 15 years had a police station, two employees. The very presence of the police certainly gave security to the citizens in some way and prevented some crimes. Unfortunately for us today, let's say in a little self-government where I have so-called. A cop in a community who unfortunately can't. Covering not only mine but also another local self-government and unfortunately cannot cover needs, our needs because it deals with both traffic violations and all others. He's responding to the call. Our police department and the station that covers our space are really coming out to meet. I must commend the Primorje-goran Police Department and the employees and the 3rd police station that covers my city, but they really don't have enough personnel and not enough equipment to cover such a wide area, especially when we know that our premises are loaded and sometimes 100% more people present in our space than is usual during the tourist season of course. So I think that it will need to work further on education, on efficiency, on better organisation but probably also to think about making some regional cooperation, local with the police to strengthen personnel and with equipment at given time, although I know that our local and regional self-government helps our police administration and in purchasing certain needs that they show each year and we try to keep the standard. But obviously that's not enough at this point. Here, I think the HNS is pleased with this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85919	Thank you. We have a single debate, a respected colleague Boris Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85920	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Very short. A few words, with a few words I'd like to refer to this report. Namely, the purpose and role of the state is primarily the physical security of citizens and this is what the state uses repressive appliances for, and these are the military and police. But the police, or police service, are very clear that I thus express myself to a complex mechanism that is not easy to manage, and citizens themselves generally come to meet the police when extracting personal documents on their way out of the country at the borders and most often by reading various media articles and it is good that they do. Most citizens thus come to meet the police, but only those who do some illegal activities come in another way to meet the police. Police work itself is one of the hardest jobs and it's at all levels... The service. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And police officers who are constantly working with citizens in particular feel the pressure these citizens are making on them, and we citizens demand that the police officers who communicate with us are always kind, always mild, always forgiving, and careful with each and every one of us and ask that police officers and officials be more or less perfect in their work. In some ways, we have the right to do so, and today's officials are growing in quality, in my experience, increasingly professional and better doing their job. We also look at police officers with suspicion, although today there is much, I say, better public relations with police officers and police officers than it was five, ten, and not to speak from the time of the former state that we then had a relationship with the police officers. And it's good that it is. We need police who are friends and protectors to the citizens, and fortunately, we don't have a significant increase in crime, and as I said, the quality of police officers is growing. Clearly, the situation is not ideal, but efforts and intensities are clearly positive. And that is why I think it is very good that this report puts this table where the comparison of the number of criminal offences to the hundreds of thousands of people in Croatia and other countries where it is seen that they are worse than Croatia and such as the number of criminal offences on hundreds of thousands of people, such as Germany and Austria and Slovenia and Hungary, Estonia, Poland, Slovakia and Bulgaria. I think it's good and such comparative data to show and tell the citizens so they know what and how our police are doing. But in my review of this report, I would certainly like to emphasise the necessity of a further fight against corruption which, by my deep conviction, is the greatest evil of any country, especially a small country where more or less everything is known. The echo of corruption is psychologically devastating for society and in such small countries as Croatia has far-reaching always, especially in such small countries as Croatia has far-reaching and long-term negative consequences. And I would particularly refer to acts of terrorism and the latest threats related to terrorism. In fact, the situation in our even close neighborhood but certainly the recent developments in Iraq, not only in Iraq but also in other countries, the creation of the Islamic state and departure or export, and then the return of Islamic extremists, are a real threat to the security of all EU countries and Croatia. And the agreed joint fight between all NATO and EU member states in the fight against terrorism is extremely important and I think we need to give this special emphasis and increased caution. News from us close neighbouring countries such as Austria, BiH, Kosovo, but not only them, and it is related to the return of Islamic radicals that go to fight in these countries and return indoctrination to one particularly different and educated in one completely different way than it was. I think it is necessary to point out the need for increased caution regarding such threats. By the way, the overall report, and therefore police work in 2013 I think it's extremely good and good and gives the feeling that we live, regardless of all the problems that are, but give the feeling that we live in a good, safe country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85921	The final minutes of this debate belong to Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Mr. Ranko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85922	Mr. Vice President, here in the final word I will try to say just a few comments which I think are good and I view this as not well-intentioned criticism but also instructions in the extreme case sharing the responsibilities of the Croatian Parliament together as one of the important factors that act on public security. Part of the parliamentary deputies who might have heard this comment but now they're gone, but I think it's important for others to know. First of all, I thank the police and this is very important in Gunja and Slavonia, and I am glad that, in fact, at this moment despite the very bad forecasts that we could expect this work has continued continuously in these moments. I think it's one important thing, which is that it's first and foremost for them. I would point out only one thing, just to compare ourselves with others, we did not have a serious security incident for the entire duration of the Gunja disaster, and our colleagues who were of neighbouring meaning both BiH and Serbia had no exceptional problems but had no place to detain all those who were trying to steal other people's property in waves. And I think it's a particularly important segment that I want to share with you. Also, I have to correct Mr. Vidovic's parliamentary representative, the Law on the Police in this section has not been changed, and it was passed in 2001, so it was passed by the coalition government then. Therefore, since then, there has been this variant that the Director of Police would probably be a better person to say this, similar to the state's attorney's report on the work of the state's attorneys and not specifically do not know the minister of justice. Although it may not be the same relationship, but I think we have a chance to change that thing together. As for the residence and the part which, of course, is not an integral part of police work but is related to determining the case itself, I would like to ask my colleague Popovec to give us these specific cases as well. We can't talk about inspection surveillance, but we can talk about surveillance if there's a suspicion that something wasn't done as it was said in an illegal manner. Otherwise, I have to say that people have been informed, it's come out of nowhere to try to give full and real information. In particular, the interior ministry officials were even on call in Serbia and explained all the conditions around the residence itself. I must point out here that everyone whose residence is being checked out, and I claim that this is not related to any of the national minorities, you remember well that the objection was made to the police to remove Croatians from certain areas on the one hand, and also here we could now listen to another story that in certain areas is probably doing some reasons to also delete people of other nationalities. This is not true, and what is important is that Croatia provides judicial protection to everyone treated under Article 12. The residence law. Also, in terms of police equipment, we must all be very precise in terms of the fact that this depends on the Croatian budget as well. The problem with the Ministry of the Interior is, above all, that 80% of the money goes to pay, the rest goes to all these other activities from prevention to equipment, etc. So, it doesn't matter if the cops are going to, I have to point out that they're actually wearing uniforms, etc. to make a decision, 8 million kuna is only a savings in this segment when it comes to the work of the uniform that is an integral part of the police, both in Germany, Slovakia, Italy and the like, because for years I have also listened to these objections, it bothers us that we are in shirts in summer, we would be better off in shirts, now that they've come shirts, now the situation is that the shirt would be a better solution. I'm thinking that it should always be left to those who are users, and they're cops so that they evaluate what's best for them, but also with all the arguments. We've seen the tests that passed those shirts, what Ariel's advert wouldn't do what they did on that particular interrogation, what all that T-shirt needs to handle, and I think it's important to say that it's not only carrying savings because it doesn't have to be a priority, it makes a quality part of a cop's uniform. The number of administrative officials is equal to the systematization smaller, so to Lesar, if you can pass on, so 20% of unfulfilled jobs in administrative jobs are the same as in the work of police work. Incorrect data on two years of waiting, here we've now figured out how it happens that actually one partially true piece of information, job waiting for criminals who have enrolled as well as each other, it's about the same as if someone were going to sign up for law school and then say there's no job at this point, they're going to find all those who have a contract, so for high school, cops, it's absolutely settled for them and there's no waiting. It's a small number, cca 20 criminals who were enrolled from a position outside of the system years ago, not from the system, were not educated from the system, and as such did not get a job at the police station at the moment because they were educated for it, and of course they are being opened and part of it is employed according to the capabilities and permits of the Ministry of Administration. So there can't be new employment just like that in groups, but if there's a job opening, there's a competition going on, they're picking up on it, so fellow Katazi said it's actually an exact example. It's not a member of the Roma national minority, they've been working for two years, but it's about people who signed up as criminals as well as everyone else to sign up for another university and to him, the MUP hasn't even taken any obligation to be employed, but has to wait for the competition. 120 million euros as much as we got from the... fund, incorrect information about not spending those funds. It is true that they are partly prepared for consumption and I hope that it is clear that the restrictions we have here, which is that in these two years we have to carry out procedures, and by 2016, more precisely in 13.07.2016 the funds must be spent. There is no reason to rush it, first of all, to do what is also pointed out, and that is to say not to build police stations, incorrect data. From the complete plan, it means... the fund of the indicative program that was adopted, you start using it when you have the right to funds, which is from 01/07 last year. And since then, all the procedures that could be prepared at this time have been made from the acquisition of technique, vessels, radar, police stations, construction, the center for migrants in Tovarnik. At this point, it is being built in Trilj, we are also solving things in Dubrovnik, and the ministry had the strength and I must point out, in cooperation with local leaders of local self-government, both in Samobor and in Velisto and in Slunj and in Kaštel and in..., that no further resolved police stations have been in catastrophic condition for years and I... that this can be a common model as well as in the interests of the citizens and in cooperation with the police. As for vests and equipment, there are no cases that would confirm these allegations, it is the situation in which we have the same story regularly, which is that there is something missing, but the data is completely different, and I will now give another example, and that is that after 32 years, we all know well how much Croatia exists so that we know where those helicopters we had, the youngest was 32 years old, so 2 new Eurokopteras that were obtained by means, not from... funds, because from there we will get what is exclusively for the border police, and we have provided the possibility that the police can do additional jobs that they could not do so far. As far as the number of complaints is concerned, it is true that the number of complaints has been increased, as regards the structure itself, it has been pointed out only to the commission to which all the things which have not been found to be justified are going to them for verification and, on the basis of that, we can conclude, but if necessary, we can distinguish the whole part of the complaints themselves, although they will certainly report to the Committee on Human Rights. As for rape and reporting, entering the dark area of crime, I'm sorry we didn't give you a parallel plate and that would be important, and that's to see how much sensitivity has grown, and that means that it's incorrect that we have 1:10, namely there's a dark zone, but that was the same thing with family violence that was once a shame to report, and today these figures are significant and I think there's an absolute step in that part. Also around the Prevention Council is an observation that you made about that part, that we have not pointed out enough, although I must say that the police initiative that is old, the police in the community, means the project that started in 2002, and the police prevention of the Prevention Council itself, which has proved to be an extremely good model with the right, you have noticed that they are not sufficiently prominent in this segment, but you will probably have to agree with me, the result is nevertheless in front of you. Feedback information is that we have a reduction in significant crime, but it was necessary to separate them and specifically point to those preventive activities that are a special objective and in that segment I agree. We'll fix it. I think that prevention is definitely a strategic definition of the MUP and support to prevention councils, and it is good to see a table in which cities work for prevention councils and how much this is reflected in the reduction of crime because these figures are extremely high, especially in this segment of smaller environments, smaller cities, smaller towns, can't talk about everything, but all the reports speak about where you have a quality Council for prevention in which the police are initiator, and others participate that crime is in significant decline. About the report on the pilot projects itself a new structure as you yourself said about the 3rd police station, the third category police station is the result of what we are facing. The fact is that we have almost 1800 people who are in the cold drive, you've noticed that well, so they're sitting behind the phone and unfortunately there are those who at night at the police station don't unfortunately have any phone calls. During the summer, they are, of course, completely choked, I'm talking first of all about islands and certain police stations that are located in such places, and on the other hand, we can't afford it. For this reason we went into the pilot project, a complete analysis was made, and it is true that you have certainly good experience regarding what the head of the sector means, the goal and was to have more people on the ground, and on the very presence of the police, I must say that this House adopted, and we were not yet able to realise first of all the law relating to the reserve police. It's one of the solutions in which we have to go from one side to saving because the police officer as much as we've cut costs and today he's come to a significantly lower figure in total in terms of how much it costs per cop, but the point is that we have to use a reserve that can then do certain jobs for a lot less money, of course, on jobs that may not be suitable for a police officer in this sense is too expensive to do such jobs. And that's where I see the solution and the legislative framework has been passed, of course if we have the resources then we would realize it, even though I don't think there's any obstacle and we'll go safely into that project. A third of the composition is allowed, so in Croatia there could be 7300 cca of police officers who would be in reserve and based on that law they have the right to 10% of the average salary per month, by the very fact that they have passed education and would be reserve officers, and then if they are hired to receive 90% of the average salary in the Republic of Croatia, which is much more important to us. I'm sorry, as much as this cost is so good and quality a replacement that at certain points or at larger public gatherings they can do some things that we're too expensive for cops to do. And finally, Mr. Blazekovic is right about terrorism, as far as it is not pointed out in this report here, the truth is that, of course, our focus and police are especially our focus is absolutely towards extremism and a situation that could be a danger to the Republic of Croatia. We are trying to make a maximum exchange because we share the fate of all other EU countries, with them we have a quality data exchange. And what I can inform you as parliamentary representatives, we have so far not had cases recorded that specifically one of our citizens participated in or that belongs to this... there but the fact that recruiting and searching for people who would participate in this is happening in the area of the Republic of Croatia, and especially in BiH, and this danger cannot be ignored and the experience that the Republic of Croatia has. So just remember that car bomb that was just from that position of extreme terrorism in Rijeka in 1995 is enough reasons why it is necessary to be fully involved in all these processes and I'm not inclined to have any, I don't think we have anything to talk about, that's the fact that we are involved in operations and in Afghanistan, that we are present together with the EU and in certain sanctions and so on, and therefore that part of the burden carries certain obligations. On the other hand, be assured that we are working on our own as far as the police are concerned, that we should prepare ourselves for such a situation. Namely, you can't predict it, it will or won't be, but all focus is and we are flexible and for that part of crime, which, of course, is not only the problem of Croatia anymore, but is global, and we are an integral part of it. We can't play the ticket because we're made up of this global world. I thank you all together for all these remarks that will guide us in how to prepare a better report, but the next is true, I believe that it is of interest to everyone and it has proved to be the interest of every political party in this House, first of all, and the better conditions we create, the better they do we will be a safer country. That's what I'm saying for the simple reason I think one positive thing to point out, our most important industry tourism and this year it wasn't threatened, there were no security incidents and I'd say it was cca. 12 million people as far as we estimate that Croatia has come from the side, and this should definitely be pointed out as one of the greatest successes, I will not only tell the police, but I am sure that there is one very large contribution to this service. Here's my thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85923	Thank you. We have a reported replica of Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85924	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, we heard extensively about your explanation at the end of this 2013 report, but we heard how many procedures in the body, i.e. court proceedings, how many lawsuits have you filed against those to whom the Committee on State Officers and Inspections at the Ministry of Administration has made a decision that you have unlawfully treated them when you have... One of these people said that he worked for 4 months from 15 October 2012 to 13 February 2013, I came to work at my police station and sat in the halls and spent 4 months neatly getting paid by the police station chief even though he was working as a new chief. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Tell me, how many procedures has the MUP raised against the decision of these bodies that have annulled your solutions?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85925	Minister... on this replica. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85926	Mr. Vice President, thank you. Your Honor, I'll tell you the information, which is that in seven cases, an inadmissible verdict, a pardon, and a Committee on the State's Service in which the interior ministry's solutions were annulled. The interior ministry conducted a total of 42 proceedings. I have to say that there were 73 people who complained about this position during the proceedings, according to which the number of 2400 is absolutely not standing. Only 37 of them were former executive officials. And as far as your double salary remarks are concerned, it would be best if you didn't talk about it because of what I can tell you, which is that there were three or four other officers in one workplace at another time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85927	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Internal Affairs Minister's report on police operations in 2013. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report by the Minister of the Interior on the performance of police affairs in 2013 is accepted. A year.". Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 107 votes in favour, 2 against and 8 abstentions, have adopted the proposed conclusion. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, I am giving the following conclusion: "It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose within 6 months amendments to the Law on Police in order to create assumptions for the effective conduct of the Committee for Labour under complaints at the Ministry of the Interior, and to take appropriate measures to monitor more effectively the conduct of police officers by strengthening the functioning of the competent authorities of the Ministry of the Interior.". Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, with 101 votes for and 16 abstentions, have reached a conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85930	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So the year 2013 for which, as chairman of the Governing Council of HINA, I submit this report to the Croatian Parliament, marked in the first row the restructuring of the agency which covered the programme for the provision of extra non-innovation staff and strategic investment in technological reconstruction and development. So on 1 January 2013, 152 workers were constantly employed and 4 working relations rested, which means 156 employees. In HINA today, 125 workers are employed and there are no more workers whose working relationship is still in place. So in HINA right now, 31 workers are working less than or equal to 20% less than the previous number. The Agency thus returned to the number of employees guaranteeing sustainable business and harmonised expenditure with revenues following recommendations from the State audit and the budgetary surveillance sector of the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, restructuring in HINA has been completed and we are proud to talk about the results of which the restructuring took place particularly when it comes to the financial part of the implementation. For the severances, the original plan covered 28 workers whose severances provided EUR 1.7 million of money from the bank's loan. However, only about 800,000 kunas were spent on severance payments because some workers were able to be taken care of elsewhere. By transferring 6 workers from HINA under the means of the Ministry of Culture to jobs in the Croatian State Archives, we saved about 300 thousand kuna for their severances and another 300 thousand kuna on their salaries by the end of the year. One of the results of the restructuring is the shutting down of the media monitoring service of the failed former management project, where HINA lost nearly 100 thousand kuna at monthly level, or more precisely around 1.4 million kuna per year. In total, HINA spent around $9.5 million on media monitoring over several years on how many services there were as much as nine.5 million on government and as much as on their own money. In doing so, the money was intended to digitise the former Vesnik archives but this was not done and only 3% of the construction was digitized. Vesnik's archive in the first half of 2013 was transferred to the Croatian State Archives, properly taken care of and became available to the public almost completely after a number of years. Of course, the greatest effect of restructuring is the reduction of the wage mass by more than 2 million kuna compared to the previous year, i.e. exactly 2 million 17 thousand 958 kuna and the reduction of the loss by 56.54% despite restructuring costs. The total savings at the annual level are estimated at 2.6 million kuna. At the same time, numerous first-row investments were launched in the technological development of the agency, which was found in a very outdated state. During 2013, 440 000 kuna was spent for this purpose, and the rest will be used until the planned amount of 700,000 kuna this year. All of this, however, has resulted in the recent public presentation of the new multimedia website HINA, which has been developed within the house with its own forces and money and which we will try to get close to European agency standards. It is not just a new web but a whole editorial system, a multimedia and modern interface adapted to smartphones and a new ratio of public and commercial content. In accordance with European rules, HINA also opens up a part of its content to the public, and we are expected to amend the law in order to fully comply with what is the practice of other European agencies. In 2014, although this is not a direct subject of this report, HINA began to record the first positive trends from the market, which stopped the months-long decline of commercial products. The actual expenditures on the other hand are planned, which is also the result of restructuring because we have already managed to achieve a balanced financial plan for 2014. Thanks to the arrival of the new editorship, there is a continuous increase in quality, volume, relevance and speed of news HINA, which is confirmed by the users themselves in daily contacts, the market is growing interest in the subscription to agency services, increasing the amount of published news and photographs of HINA in the media and relying on HINA services as the main sources of daily information content in Croatia. The additional support for HINA financing and development aims to ensure that its own projects are reported in EU funds tenders. HINA today earns 17.3 million kuna on the basis of a total subscription contract, and 7.2 million kuna on the market and currently there are slightly less than 140 users. It is started with product repacking, market research, price change and action products are offered. We're trying to increase revenues from the market. We have speeded up the news show, enriched it with journalistic forms, but we are still being followed by great difficulties with the collection of large publishers, the problem of high VAT, and the biggest problem at the moment is the fact that the HINA budget for 2014 has been cut off by 5 million kuna and 23% of the total budget. However, given the promise and guarantee of the Ministry of Culture, we believe that this money will be returned to the agency, especially given the fact that restructuring and neutralisation of long-term losses have been carried out. In 2013, the Council adopted HINA ended positively, with a loss of slightly less than half a million kuna shown as a result of the execution of one previously lost 13-year-old court dispute. In 2014, according to current indicators, we will certainly end up in plus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85931	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is the club of HNS and colleagues Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85932	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HNS-Liberal Democrats Club, I would like to point out at the beginning of my presentation that we will support the report on the work of the Governing Council of HINA for 2013. In fact, there's finally been conditions for us to say finally good news from HINA in this House. For years we have been following the drama in which HINA was in 2012 and I said here if the next year HINA does not seriously suffer important changes in its organization, functionality and management, in its way of doing business, it will no longer be. Fortunately, it happens exactly the other way around, so by changing the administration, changing the regulation, or changing the editorial, different approach, more responsible attitude to public money, a more responsible relationship with earned money, which in terms of donation and very difficult circumstances in which the media as such are increasingly buying agency news, HINA manages to increase the number of its subscribers, increase its quotation, plasma information produced and materials produced, because HINA has, as we have heard, also established a multimedia service, so it is no longer just an emitter of written news but also video and audio recording. It is far from permanent stability because HINA still depends on the financial transfer from the state budget because it performs a very important public function. And it is good to know that despite the projections of the budget presented to the Croatian Parliament last year, which planned a slightly different model of HINA financing in the following years, first of all in 2015, 2016, a more secure, normal financial framework will be established in which this process of restructuring, i.e. the conversion of HINA into a modern, fast, stable, efficient news agency, will be continued. It is not a simple job because the opportunities on the market have completely changed over the last few years. The structure of the media has been completely changed and the structure of the material that is placed through the media. Today, unfortunately, information that is superficial is prevailing, which is speculation, which is neither a fruit nor an examination of facts nor a serious analysis. There is less and less in Croatian media, but unfortunately in other countries such a type of journalism, serious, concentrated, based on information, facts, and knowledge of those who work on this information. In this respect, these steps, which have been taken by HINA, have ended at the end of 2013 with a positive approach to financing activities, i.e. in planning and in establishing a sustainable business plan or financial plan of the FINA. And as you have heard and as can be seen from this report that there has been no end to the court proceedings that lasted for 13 years, and which reached the charge right in 2013 HINA would have finally ended up positive that year. In 2015, we hope that this approach will continue to work and that, above all, what is core bussiness HINA, which is the production of news, will have an even greater momentum and in this sense, we will encourage as founders of this House all those efforts which, in the case of budget users, or those who spend public money, create a different climate from which the obligation to earn more, to acquire more than public sources. This is not an easy job because the information, regardless of what we still consider to be one of the best quality goods and the most expensive goods, is generally taken, because the real information is especially in the digitalised and business world. It is still not desirable because of the overall economic opportunities and market conditions to pay for the real price. In any case, the technological step taken by the establishment of a multimedia drive, by establishing a new web interface between the Croatian news agency and what we believed, which is that HINA itself has inside its own house under its roof of its own, quality, human potential, knowledge and skills that enables it to make such steps that others would have to pay if they do not have such resources expensively and in very difficult processes. I congratulate everyone who works in HINA for taking seriously the situation they faced two years ago and realizing that everyone who stayed in HINA after restructuring and taking care of the extra employees took this job as a job to which they belong, who understand domestically and according to its means, its money and our public money are related to the attention of a good master. So I congratulate them for their success and for showing this positive trend and the shift I hope will guarantee the long-term stability of HINA. Once again, the Croatian People's Party – Liberal Democrats welcomes HINA's efforts in this regard and will support this 2013 report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85933	Thank you. Sun Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85934	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Beus in one part of it like I read my phonogram from four, five years ago. Namely, it refers to the part where you speak about the value of HINA and the value of HINA as an agency if you want in both culture and beyond in Croatia. But you mentioned that HINA has been having real drama for the past few years. I will just remind you that they are in the drama of budgeting, because they are not at all in the projections of the 2014 and 2015 budget and that until September 30th they have - there is, just as it says in this report, in the projections of business and then what happens. So, my colleague Beuss, I've carefully read the structure of HINA's income and if I understand numbers well, and I don't think my eyes are cheating on me, then it's very clear here that they've fallen revenue from users of services and unfortunately HINA hasn't positioned herself on the market or imposed herself as someone who would have the news that someone wants before everyone else. I will say more, of course, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club. So, I'm not very clear about the thanks at the expense of the new administration and the increase in users who are not, and the revenue has dropped and the loss has been shown that here is clearly visible on page 32. So things aren't good at HINA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85935	Goran Beus Richembergh, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85936	You know this report from the Governing Council of HINA isn't the kind of sentence Ana loves Milovan, so when you read from whatever side you want to read the same thing. In fact, it can be read in different ways and also tendantly. The drama in HINA began the moment she was hanged around her neck by commitments she didn't fall for. First of all, this famous project of media surveillance, the media monitoring that cost her a lot of new ones, where she was promised wonders unseen, hills and valleys to digitize the Vesenik archives. It did not happen, and it was imposed on her both through labour force and through the download of an archive that she simply could not execute alone. We've been warning for years that the archival structure of this type isn't the place in HINA, and it's finally resolved now. Its place is where all archival buildings belong, which is therefore the Croatian State Archives and it is a solid and organised institution that is immediately upon acceptance of the building and with employees who have crossed from HINA established a normal approach to the building that was not possible until then. So, in some ways, two problems have been solved, or three. Those people who worked on it are taken care of. On the other hand, the construction was made available and on the third hand HINA had lost one obligation that it could not finance on its own. As for the loss itself, read on and see why it came into being. So, I mentioned him. It's about a 13-year-old working dispute. So, three or four administrations were stretching, tightening and unable to even agree on the work dispute, and that now came at a charge. When you've been on trial for 13 years, you've got more interest than the principal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85937	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, colleague Ivan Racan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85938	My colleagues and colleagues, I'd like to get a hold of myself. Things in HINA haven't been good for a long time. This report essentially shows that things are a little bit better now, or that they're going in a little better direction. I would like to commend this report, in the scope of the report, because so far the reports of HINA are if you saw them on several pages of paper. This time we've got a really busy, detailed overview of everything and I'm grateful for it. Positive developments can be seen in restructuring and business. I do not want to repeat what counterpart Richembergh has already said, I will single out as the most important, perhaps this is my criterion which is a little subjective, the most important criterion for any media house in this sense media agency is its relevance. And the relevance of HINA is growing after really years of stagnation when HINA's news was very little in various media, now there are more. And that's, I'm taking it out as an indication that things are going a little bit better. Of course, we're far from full potential or what everyone really wants for HINA. The SDP club supports this report, thanks to everyone in HINA who works in conditions after a period that long did not know what would happen to HINA, the period in which many feared that HINA would be shut down and after the period of really failed projects, but here I am not going to stand there again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85939	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague of Sunchana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85940	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, President of the Board of Directors, colleagues and colleagues. According to the HINA Management Council’s announcements, and in this report, we expected a stabilisation plan, and with the implementation of the restructuring and development plan, we can say so, and then such a financial report for 2013 in which, after the last year, HINA ended with 30 people less than a large majority were fired and here I will immediately correct the incorrect quote of the President of the Governing Council, it is incorrect that it is non-innovative personnel. So that's absolutely incorrect. We thought we'd see a lot of savings on the spending side and what's even more important is the increase in our own incomes of HINA, but unfortunately the report for last year is not like that. Total revenues are slightly more than 2% less than in the year before, and this concerns the fact that HINA’s own revenues from selling services to users, to the media, are lower by more than 9% or dropped from 9.1 million kuna to 8.3 million kuna and that the last two years are the smallest in HINA’s history. The number of service users was reduced compared to last year by almost 2500, which is a decline in revenues from service users by nearly 2 million kuna. In the structure of business expenditure, staff costs of over 72% were reduced by 9.5% or 2 million kuna. So if we go back to the finding or the truth that HINA fired almost 30 employees last year, that 4 went into early retirement with the right we can ask why the expenditure on staff costs is not significantly reduced? We see in the report that HINA has raised a severance loan for the restructuring or lay-off programme, and therefore it is necessary to explain why expenditure, in particular as regards staff costs, has not fallen significantly. The list of extraordinary other expenditures also lists expenditures to end the long-standing working dispute with the former employee, as mentioned earlier. There is no information missing exactly how much the work dispute cost, so I remind you that it usually dates back to 1998, and what are the other costs of criminal proceedings. The working dispute is not a criminal procedure, so they should respond to what criminal proceedings have been or have been conducted and how much they have cost in the total amount of nearly 450 million kuna. On page 13, in the case of information in addition to five categories, the balances are listed in parallel, i.e. for 2012 except for the item money in the register. My question is why? That item amounts to 1.5 million kuna, the kuna equivalent was it that much last year? If so, is the money spent or is it still armed? The same page states that HINA has a long-term obligation of 1.7 million kuna relating to a loan raised by the HPB to finance the work plan in 2013 or more specifically to discharge or care for workers. Credit is granted at an interest rate of 5.75 every 5 years. Since the revenues from the service users are lower, as I have already said, that the government has cut its share for a total subscription of 5 million kuna, which the President of the Governing Council knows very well, is my question, how is HINA repaying that loan? Besides, I'm curious about how HINA and who's gonna repay the loan instead of HINA, if HINA can't do it? I remind you once again, there is no budget projections of the HINA funding that most in this House have raised their hands and voted for such a budget, and on the other hand, they would now swear that HINA should remain, I think it's a little late for such oaths. According to a rough estimate, due to 30 employees, fewer expenditures were supposed to be at least 4 million kunas but they weren't and HINA was lost, despite announcements that the former administration was doing badly, that the revenues were low and that all of a sudden it would go better. Practically, where are the new services? One was mentioned by the President of the Governing Council. If one service that has yielded a little more than a million kuna has been abolished, so we are talking about media monitoring, so we are not talking about Vjesnik's documentation, which is obviously said, it is incorrect that it has become available to everyone by moving to the Croatian State Archives because it lacks funds for digitisation, so it is also not available to anyone, these are facts and that is true, just to be known, which has already been used by individual ministries and public institutions, did not it need to be introduced any other service or more of them to compensate for that loss? This is not how HINA can go on, nor with the foundation of its administration, nor by the treatment it has from the Resoring Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the reduction of the correspondence network that the report says should be the advantage of the agency on the media market again raises the question, from which money? Well, maybe there's a volunteer who'll be working for HINA. It's possible, but if you had a correspondence network, quality people, you'd have to pay for it. I remind you that HINA does not exist for the government and the Ministry in 2014 and 2015. In this way, in our opinion, the independence of the media service and its survival on the market are directly at stake. In addition, HINA had to prepare itself for completely different circumstances and actions with new technologies, with new work programmes, instead leaving an empty space that is set out in the business projections for HINA to find new funding models and mentioning some kind of public media subscription such as HRT, which... stands here in your report, which is a notorious lack of knowledge of the EU-wide support system. I'm asking you, President of the Board of Directors, please report to the support system so we don't get into trouble with these reports. Let us not call upon something we simply cannot accomplish. It's a lie, it's not true, and that's how HINA can't be financed. All of this is put on the press every day, photojournalists working hard at HINA. And we've always advocated a journalistic profession, but in these circumstances, we can only ask ourselves how, how, and what will these people work on. The ease of giving up on the only Croatian agency, the public service, we can say anything already. Persuasion in the nightmare of media laws, the lack of a famous media strategy that has been floating around for 3 years in the air, financing non-profit media directly from the budget without any criteria, is a continuation of media collapse at all levels. We're not happy with that. In its inaction, the authors of this report, which we at the HDZ Club, cannot accept, have contributed in some way to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85941	Ivan Racan, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85942	My colleague Glavak, I believe it's a stroke. You have repeated on several occasions that the HINAs are missing from the 2014 and 2015 budgets. However, it is that there is no position of HINA in budget projections for 2015 and 2016, which we discussed on the board and received an explanation. We asked that question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85943	Sunny Head, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85944	Thank you, dear fellow Racan. You're right. I'm sorry. However, what I said, which is true, that the funds they have, hence the proposal for a financial plan for 2014, only refers to HINA financing until September 30th. So I'll do it again, you're right, you're right, you're right, you're right, because of the media that we don't even know if they're following up on what's going on in the media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85945	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85946	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Glavak, it's very strange that we in this House are discussing in a way that fits. Anyone who understands himself in finance knows if someone gets a position in the budget that they're insured, which is what they say, for a man who wants to wipe it out in the future, they're going to have to make a lot of different groups out of it. We are talking here with praises for HINA's successes in 2013, but when we discussed the 2014 budget, where money is scheduled for only 9 months, in projections for 2015 and 2016. HINA is not envisaged at all in a country where it scratches in all-powerful and impossible ways to reduce the expenditure side of the budget convinces that someone will provide new millions for someone who is not in projections for 2015, 2016 is a pure illusion. Well, it is fair to admit that if someone believes that HINA does not need Croatia, that it does not need a place, that it is not in the budget and that it should be removed, and not so much to be showered with praises about the 2013 report, because when a man listens to discussions on behalf of clubs from the Kukuriku Coalition on the work of HINA for 2013, he would expect in 2015, 2016, to increase the budget, rather than erase the position in which HINA was practically from the establishment and has always found its place in the state budget. Remember, too, when VAT was reduced to written media for one reason or another, we prayed, we wrote amendments that it had the same HINA status, but there was no understanding, and now I guess we all know why it was like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85947	Sunny Head, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85948	That's exactly what my colleague Shuker is. So I don't know how many times we've appealed, prayed, written the amendments, talked to our colleagues, spoke to the board, and today we don't know why HINA, which was invested in from the state budget couldn't get into the privileged VAT system but from 25%. It's not normal, and no one's raised their heads from their colleagues from the ruling parties and said, "Let's get this over with," he didn't. Likewise, whether it is normal for the Government to replace the administrative board and the former director to the same board of directors and that same director, who has been replaced, to give a positive opinion and accept their report. So there's as much illogicalness as you want. The fact is, there's no HINA position in the projections, and I'm afraid HINA will once again say that, experience the fate of the Vesnik. HINA cannot be financed from the fee as it was said and do not fall for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85949	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU colleague Marija Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85950	Honored Vice President and President of the Governing Council. Namely, the Club of HSU Representatives will accept the report on the work of the Governing Council of HINA for 2013. We believe that this report can be interpreted through two prisms, and each of them is a common denominator, a crisis which unfortunately does not come so easily in Croatia. The effects of the economic crisis are also seen in the general media, making information of vital interest increasingly difficult to penetrate citizens due to lack of financial and other capacities, and many media are forced to reduce the volume of public reporting from important events and the role of public service such as HINA is crucial in informing citizens. In this regard, the Club of HSU Representatives strongly supports the efforts of HINA administration, led by the director, to position HINA even more strongly as an independent public service acting on the principles of independent, impartial and professional agency journalism. The first report we received clearly reads that the HINA restructuring model is one of the most exemplary ones would say because the result has been achieved in this short time. In our club's opinion, it's really encouraging. The rationalisation of operating costs resulting from a drastic loss reduction compared to 2012, an increase in revenues from the market and the launch of a new investment cycle, as seen in the report, are measures that have produced good results and constitute a model for all state-owned companies, agencies and institutions. Financial sustainability and professional performance are the minimum benchmark of success that should be maintained by all those who manage public money in this country. Croatia's interest is also of interest to HSU and we will be happy to support this report. Secondly, on the basis of everything we have said at the Club of Representatives of the HSU, we believe that it is of paramount importance for all citizens of Croatia to retain the model of public funding of institutions of vital interest for the Republic of Croatia, and HINA is certain. The state must have the role of regulators and must not leave everything absolutely to the market. This is why we are extremely concerned, in part, with the report of the Administrative Council of HINA, which discusses the uncertain financing of HINA, which is not available in the projections of the 2015 and 2016 budgets, and this time we appeal to the competent authorities to solve this problem as soon as possible. In fact, we believe that institutions that show good results should in some way be rewarded in order to be even more successful and to break the practice that has brought a handful of bad news in Croatia that quality work is not recognized but that all good initiatives are being choked because of the poor results of some others. It would also draw attention to a part of the report that says that HINA financing funding was provided by 30 September 2013 on the basis of a common subscription contract with the Ministry of Culture and the commitments made by the ministry to provide funds for regular HINA financing from that date to the end of the year. We believe that the ministry will respect the signed and welcome all government efforts towards respect and award, I would say, a cult of work in Croatia. President of the Governing Council we wish you and HINA a lot of success and, of course, even better results in 2014. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85951	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85952	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Ilic, you were talking about successful restructuring. So from what I've been listening to from the board president, only one part of the HINA surplus staff has been transferred to another budget user. So from left to right pocket, it's all ultimately the budget of the Republic of Croatia. It is very interesting, however, that we in this House of higher education have a rather voluntary view of someone providing money after 30.9. So who gave someone the right to distribute money in a different way than how this House of Commons adopted it? Someone just doesn't have a right to do that. Because if the Ministry of Culture has that money, then the 2014 draft budget had to give them to whoever they belonged to. Another thing if you look at the Budget Law, the Fiscal Responsibility Act has exactly the responsibility of one who does not provide the means for something that the law stipulates must exist. We did not say by any legal act that something changed after 30.9.2014 in HINA. And here we are in this House of the High so benevolently going over it, the minister promised to give the money. So where'd it come from? Where does that money come from if now the finance minister in every possible and impossible way is scratching to cut the budget's spending side, then it means that someone went wrong towards both the Prime Minister and the finance minister that in certain positions he needs so much and so much money, then it's one big irresponsibility. And we can't bring into question and the transportation of students and far more important things than maybe some others, everyone has their own different priorities and claim here that someone will find the money. Where will they find them? [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85953	You've got to take this. Replication response, Maria Ilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85954	Dear Mr Schuker, of course you noticed that I was in my debate and appealed to the government and indicated that we are very sorry at the HSU club that HINA is not in positions for 2015 and 2016. Let's trust the promise that the funds will be found. You say that's illegal because it wasn't entered into the budgets. I agree with you, but if there's any chance that the situation can be resolved and that it can be brought down, let's say in some order, I certainly do, and you support it. Where the funds come from, I hope they will, and we'll see about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85955	Just the budget rebalance. We're moving on to an individual debate. A colleague Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85956	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I read this report similar to my colleague Beus Richembergh, a coalition colleague and I support the report, and I think it speaks of HINA as an example of how one, one public service, one institution, one institution, something that is successfully and properly recovered. The report also speaks about the weight and quantity of dubiosis created during the 8 years before the arrival of the Kukurik coalition to power. The problems were deep, organisational, logistics and governance. The HINA's report really accurately shows that coming to power of the coalition, seeing the challenges in HINA that we have talked about several times both on the board and on plenary sessions, changes the composition of the governing council, changes management, changes the editorship. The restructuring process, the financial consolidation programme and the new investment programme are included. These are profound changes, and it certainly takes time. HINA was in complete disarray in moments before and skating towards total self-destruction, debt was growing and greater, human relations were heavily disrupted and management was not functioning. The administrative council was ineffective and the basic activity itself and the survival of HINA was threatened. For similar reasons, if not the same reason, the Vjesnik simply had to be abolished. Today HINA is largely restructured, the scope of basic activity is increasing, it has a fully functional administrative council, the management is doing its job quality, the editorship is providing an increasingly high quality service, financial consolidation is at the end, new perspectives are being opened in the form of an increase in subscribers and an innovative approach to modern media. And all in two years. And it was all done in a regular procedure in accordance with the positive legal regulations and completely transparent in front of the public and despite many. And now I want to say something about the importance of HINA, which I think HINA is simply too important. Thanks to the already mentioned management of the period before the arrival of Kukuriku coalition to power, the media scene has become almost entirely sensational, profitable, tabloid, yellow, simply bad. Unfortunately, because of the completely reckless action of the former authorities on all levels, we lost the continuity of professional work in most media, especially the most important Croatian media HRT. Reporting is one of the professions where continuity and transfer of knowledge from the elderly to the younger generations in the business is simply necessary. In the early '90s, simply, to say a rough term, nearly two generations of journalists were executed and there was a gap that we could not fully fill to this day. HRT is barely and terribly ill and slowly recovering from these holes and the question is to what extent it will heal, but HRT is another topic. Something similar happened to HINA. During the year, she was systematically devastated and brought down to the trimming of the so-called ". Important, strong media. All the media in Croatia except Croatia are private and all the media live on this very insecure market, they clearly understand how they know and understand within the framework of laws and positive regulations. As in any private entrepreneurship and publishing media at the end or at the beginning, there is profit. Today, as we all witness, the best pass is the sale of catastrophic news and the public search for the culprits for everything, that is, anything. Here it is certainly necessary to distinguish and highlight precisely in this context and the positive role of the media that have succeeded in their research work to discover and shed light on various illicit actions and crime in our society. This is a necessary role for the media, without them it would simply be impossible to fight social irregularities and crime, against inaccessible actions, public or corrupt and criminal civil servants, executives and officials. The role of the media in this is necessary and irreplaceable. Often, however, and unfortunately too often, various business phenomena are also stigmatized by mud for no reason. In advance, false conclusions are made, irresponsiblely playing with human fates, unargumented mud and show the right people and positive jobs, and less doubt and wandering are shown as catastrophic. And that phenomenon has taken hold in all the media at all levels. It's irresponsible and harmful. There is too much blackness and negativity in Croatian society. It's bad, it's bad for society, it's bad for every single person. Public balance between good and evil is essential and because of the very mental health of the nation. It's not true that in one country in society everything is bad. In Croatia there are also a number of examples of good business, quality and successful people, valuable and good individuals, top experts, positive examples of work, action, life and more important examples. And they are not excess, they are a real constant and reality of every society even Croatian. But they and all of us feel bad if new and new examples of catastrophic, catastrophic, bad things keep popping up from all the media. Today if you meet anyone on the road and ask him or her how it is, the regular answer is bad, so everything is terrible, everything is a disaster. The reason for such black attitudes and the bad feeling of people, other than the harsh reality, is media reporting. Yes, we're not well, that's what the various objective indicators tell us, but they also say that the difficult way is to take care of the state and recover, but there are many positive examples that we could and should be a role model, a public role model. That is why it is necessary, not only for this one, but for all authorities, that there is an objective medium, an objective service that provides serious and relevant information, information collected in a quality and verifiable way, information that will guarantee the truthfulness, relevance, objectivity of information that will reflect the true journalistic quality of the information with the signature of HINA. It has to be the HINA mission and we all have to support it and encourage it all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85957	Thank you very much. And colleague Karolina Leakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85958	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here, of course, my colleagues warned in their presentations about the problems mainly related to the financial structure of HINA, but I would like to begin my presentation in which I will, of course, support this report on the work of HINA for 2013 in view of the fact that the President of the Administrative Council in this report is also, in fact, stressing that it is a year which can be called a transitional year, so in the year in which we did not expect some incredibly good results in business, but which indeed after years of stagnation, especially those between 2008 and 2011, shows some trend that could be called positive. And this is what seems to me that we as advocates and advocates can support and which can in some way encourage us, so not only us but also workers and workers of HINA, journalists and journalists and all who think that Croatia needs a publicly trusted media service, a public news agency such as HINA and who, of course, advocate that it is not only financially sustainable, but highly productive, relevant and of course reliable and that it may again take what seems to me in some way, especially in the 1990s, unwarranted on our media market. It is clear, in fact, that for years HINA has been in a financial crisis that we have all warned about, which we warn, but that it was also a kind of creative crisis or a crisis in governance or management and that we are trying to find ways to solve this creative crisis and that we seem to be on the best track to improve HINA productivity in this sense. So, somewhere since March 2013, by appointing a new editor-in-chief, and this report. The data shows, therefore, that production grew from month to month and so, not only is it that we have more reports, those classical agency reports if I can say so, but it's actually about the fact that journalists and journalists of HINA have started to turn to thematic texts in a certain way, and that HINA has actually started to publish more and more of these thematic contributions. And I think it's very important because these contributions and information can then serve other journalists and journalists in other media to have relevant and reliable background information on which they might then be able to build their reports further. In that sense, I would therefore like to say that I believe that news, photography, audio-video production is produced by HINA journalists and journalists. In any case, they should be made publicly available. So either this directly or through others, so non-profit media, or educational and non-profit organisations, and I think it's something that we can all support, and so HINA can and must in some way be a platform that will serve other media professionals as a particular database, i.e. information that is so grouped that other journalists and journalists can be used in some ways. So, of course we all agree that the reporting standards and standards of journalistic work in general, so HINA must be quality, that it must be of course professional, political and any other way, so that it must work on impartial and independent reporting, and strengthening the role of public media. Although the productivity of HINA journalists and journalists was increased in 2012 and 2013 of course that the restructuring was unfortunately due to a certain reduction in the number of workers and workers, journalists and long-term staff in HINA, but unfortunately, this is a trend that we have seen in the media in Croatia and in the public and private for several years, so unfortunately more and more journalists and journalists are out of this work process and it is actually a trend that I have to point out and that we have to focus very much on in Croatia. So, how to turn it around. What I would like to say, in the end, is also repeated, and it seems to me that my colleague Glavak was also talking about the fact that HINA has a problem with the correspondence network, and that is what you, Mr. Webber, in your report, are stressing and warning. And of course, it is in our interest that the HINA network is stabilised, that it is also increased and established in such a way that it covers all parts of Croatia evenly. So, I support, of course, the report of the Governing Council of HINA, but I say neither the Administrative Council is expecting us to be praised, nor are we in any way here to do so. So it's about one trend that's positive, I hope. And I hope, therefore, that the restructuring in HINA will continue, the modernisation of HINA, and, of course, productivity in this sense in which I talked about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85959	President of the Administrative Council of HINA, Mr. Joseph Webber, final presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85960	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So, I thank all those who supported the report of the Governing Council of HINA for 2013. I stress that last year's loss of half a million kuna in total compared to the previous year when over a million and a half kuna was significant, a significant difference. Right? We can intersect the numbers one way or another. It is true that some of the press personnel that have been restructured, but this was about offering early let's say pensions with ransom, with the purchase of internships like it used to be, something like that. The revenues are lower in this year, in last year, but the expenditures are much smaller. I have to answer the cash in the cash register here in 2012, i.e. in the last year, it wasn't shown because it was so small a sum that it was somewhere around 24,000 kuna, that it wasn't mentioned in the report. New services are developing during this year, which is not subject to the 2013 and HINA report on HINA financing itself, HINA organises a conference of European news agencies in Split next week where there will be talks on how to finance public media. So, the report is visible and I pointed out in the opening section that HINA restructuring is complete. Now we move on, we hope for a bright future. I believe in the journalistic force of HINA and I appeal to this High House to support their efforts and efforts by the Governing Council in close cooperation with the administration and the editorial to establish HINA as the bearer of a journalistic profession and journalism that is not sensational. And thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85961	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85962	Thank you very much. Telling this House that the problem has been solved by early retirement is just ridiculous. The early retirement is tomorrow's expenditure side of the pension fund's budget. It's the same in the budget. One reason why Croatia has such a disproportionate relationship between the number of pensioners and the number of employees is that early retirement. No matter how expensive the internships or whatever. So it's spilling from hollow to empty. But, Mr. Webber, this isn't going to you, it's not you or the guilty or the criticism going to your account, but it's simply a model that we praise when it comes to how great it is, and at the same time when we talk about pension fund problems, the problems of the state budget, the problems that the pension fund has 18 billion higher expenditures than the collection of contributions, then we can't talk about solving the problem in the state service in a way that someone has gone into early retirement. We just transferred it from one wallet to another wallet, and eventually at the end of the year we look at it in the picture, and that's the height of the government budget deficit. And therefore, no matter how politically politically we may be at any point fit to talk about how we've solved some kind of early retirement problem and resolving the number of employees, the extra employees in such a way, is no solution. It's just not a solution. People got an internship but they retired, and that's where they'll get their money back from the state budget. However, I am sorry, Mr Webber, that you have no longer pointed out this problem that arises after 30.09. regardless of this 2013 report, because I simply think that all of us with some responsibility and from what HINA has done in all the difficult years for Croatia, we simply have a responsibility and maybe we should consider why no one has made us now. Just one sentence, please, I'm sorry. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]] A few days before the end of 30.09, it was not said that this HINA would be financed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85963	Sun Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85964	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Webber, you haven't answered my question, and it's very simple and very important. You say employees got offers, they got severances. Mr. Weber HINA took credit for that. Who's gonna pay that loan? HINA doesn't have any money, right? You've been restructured in a way that you've retired a part of the employee, which was spoken of by fellow Shucker, and you've moved some of them to the State Archives, and you've given them some of them money. Is that what restructuring is all about? You're appealing to us so we can figure out what the agency is. We know very well what the agency and every serious country in Europe holds to its agency. Do you think we're holding? It will be your responsibility, Mr. Weber, you're the President of the Board of Directors. Look at these numbers, wonder what's gonna happen after September 30th. We have given support to HINA, those who have not given and who have said no, should not be in the projections of the budget ask them what is going on. So these aren't cards and greetings, these are very serious things and I don't think the situation in HINA is good.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85965	I'm closing the debate. We'll come forward about this report when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85966	Annual report on the work of the Administrative Council of HINA for 2013. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Annual report on the work of the Governing Council of HINA is hereby adopted from 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013.". Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 88 votes in favour, 25 against and 5 abstentions, have adopted the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85967	Thank you very much, Mr. Weber. Tonight, we will discuss the 4th proposal for a rule on the handling of electronic media with national concessions in the Republic of Croatia during the election promotion The draft act is proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the proposal. In the case of the adoption of this document, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You received the report at the session. Introduction will explain the proposal of the chairman of the board, colleague Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85968	Dear Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament prescribed that the Croatian Parliament would lay down a rule on the handling of electronic media with national concessions in the Republic of Croatia during the election promotion, the aim of which rules are to achieve the representation of all political options during the duration of the election campaign. The law also stipulates the obligation of all means of public communication to allow candidates to present and explain their election programmes and election promotion at the time of election promotion under equal conditions. Acting in accordance with those legal provisions, the Croatian Parliament adopted the relevant rules in 2003 and their amendments in 2007. All with the aim of enabling national electronic media to provide adequate presentation of electoral programmes, while respecting the principle of equal representation of all participants in the election. However, the application of the existing rule did not lead to the results expected of them, although their application led, for example, to the fact that for example in the face-to-face show, which takes 50 minutes for the existing rules to be laid down by the representative of a list if there were no more than 20 minutes for one electoral unit, and in the other publishers’ emissions for which the existing rules were set to last 20 minutes less than a minute. This means of representation does not benefit either candidates or viewers, but neither does it benefit the promotion of the multilateral system as one of the fundamental values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. We are invited to adopt new rules that are before us today, which we want to allow voters to receive relevant information about candidates, their programmes and approaches to current political, economic and social issues. And what ultimately results from getting an informed public and informed voter. These rules retain the obligation of public service, so public radio and public television, to enable all candidates in the electoral process to present their programmes together with the right of commercial services and public service outside the obligation of equal representation, to, in accordance with their editorial principles and principles, and to respect journalistic independence, professionalism and expertise, respect for the press code and, in particular, the basis of the principle of freedom of expression, govern the rules of monitoring election campaigns on their own. I will repeat, all the political options they decide to participate in the election process, regardless of the party base, representation in the Assembly or support in the polls, will be given the opportunity to present their programme via Croatian Radio and Croatian Television, which is explicitly set out in paragraph 3, paragraph 2 of this proposal for a rule. However, the upgrade, which comes out of the framework guaranteed by this, pardons all participants in the elections will be left at large for publishers of electronic media to determine whether, to what extent and under what conditions, they will follow the campaign. Therefore, the electronic media will, apart from Croatian Radio and Croatian Television, follow the campaign in a similar way to how other media in the Republic of Croatia do so, with the obligation to monitor their internal rules before the start of the campaign and to make these rules public afterwards. Perhaps the biggest newspaper to be proposed by these rules is the introduction of an institute of television face-up of candidates for the most important state duties, particularly the face-up of those participants of the election as their candidates for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. As regards this proposal, we could hear certain criticisms that go against such a confrontation, but I will point out that there is no candidate institution at EU level for the President of the European Commission, which did not prevent political parties in the EU from pointing out such candidates, and then choosing them as the President of the European Commission, and the EU institutions, above all Parliament, to organise a televised face-up for such candidates. We could not hear from any political party in Croatia that it opposed such an institute at European level, nor that it opposed the face-to-face of these candidates being transferred to the Republic of Croatia. It is our desire to ensure that voters in the Republic of Croatia get the same opportunity to hear people competing for their support. In addition to the above, the rules in question are also governed by the way in which the study of public change is presented, the advertising of participants in the elections, the objection to the behaviour of publishers, the way media reports are formed, the possibility of the publisher refusing to publish paid ads and conduct in such a situation and the like. Finally, these rules aim to simplify and open the process of pre-election promotion and to ensure freedom of work for electronic media as a basic prerequisite for the most important thing in the electoral process, which is an informed public and informed voter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85969	Sun Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85970	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow coat of arms, I believe you know that the government comes from Parliament. The criticisms we put out when you represented this way were going in that direction. So there is no institution to elect the Prime Minister, the government stems from Parliament. The fact that it was an explanation that it was a common practice, then I can only say, for now, here, to you in the replica, that in this way we are violating constitutional provisions that say that everyone has the right to choose and be chosen and then what about those candidates or parties that will not have, say, a potential candidate or someone that the media will think will be future, possible Prime Minister? Comrade Grbin, please, you know it very well, the government comes from Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85971	Peja Grbin, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85972	Thank you. Well, colleagues, at first glance, you might say you're right, but that's not the case. The government and the Croatian Parliament come out of the election, out of the will of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the elections, in the elections where we choose not only between the offered programmes, but also among the people whom the public should probably believe are able to implement such programmes one day. So if people are behind the program, then it's time for the public to get a chance to hear people like that. If you see anything in this issue, then I must tell you that 26 heads of state and Government of the EU, when such a question has been raised for the EU, is it so? ... the candidate should be sent by the President of the European Commission on behalf of his countries and on the basis of the expressed will of voters in the EU, including those in Croatia, whether I agree with that will or not, decided to support that person who received most of the voters joined in the European People's Party. Now, colleagues and colleagues from HDZ, if you support something at EU and EU level, why don't you support it in Croatia? Maybe because you're afraid of what the person who represents you will be able to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85973	Does the Committee's representative want to take a word for it? He doesn't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, colleague Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85974	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, and this proposal rules to speak from a formal and content aspect. First of all, something from the formal aspect, as these rules have come to light, something about the procedure. Therefore, an internet consultation was held with the interested public, which started on 9 April 2014, by publishing a draft draft rules on the website of the Croatian Parliament, and then a thematic session was held in the Croatian Assembly where the public debate was held. This was attended by representatives of the State Election Commission, the Ethics Commission of the Media, the Croatian Journalist Society, the Faculty of Political Sciences, the Agency for Electronic Media and the GONG. It's such a transparent and precise job for which I must give recognition to the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution of the Honorable colleague, Peggy Grbino. That is how it is done to involve the entire interested public, to include media representatives who have to work under these rules to help us bring as many better rules as possible. Why is that necessary? If this had been done before, we would not have the current rules in this form in which we have because media representatives would certainly have warned in time that they could not and should not be working on them. They're actually a little bit like... They look beautiful, but in practice they're exactly the opposite of what they're propagating. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to these rules, Croatian broadcasting and other electronic media with national concessions in the Republic of Croatia during the election promotion period starting from the day of publication of the lists and up to 24 hours before the elections will allow all political parties, the party coalitions, independent list holders and candidates for representatives of national minorities, their equal representation in the emissions of electronic media publishers. In the last elections 122 lists were proposed, 4359 candidates were proposed. And now this passage sounds very democratic, everyone will get the same chance. But what will viewers and listeners get when these get the same chance? Who will listen to 4359 candidates, who will be able to track and even perceive the presentation of 120 lists? If this is the only way of presenting, then it does not actually serve to inform the public about who is going to the polls but to confuse them and to prevent them from making a clear decision in the elections. What would that mean is already said the esteemed Peja Grbin, in some election unit with 20 lists every two minutes, if the show is 50 minutes, if the show is 20 minutes, then less than a minute. So who can present their programme, their political party's programme in less than a minute? And what benefit does a viewer or listener benefit from such a show? Absolutely nothing. So when this gets as crazy as it was, when it's put into one mold, then the voter's damage, they stay short for information. So, the SDP club has proposed four amendments, we think they're significantly fixing the text. The most important thing seems to me to be the amendment to Article 2(2). Electronic messaging publishers guarantee journalistic independence, professional expertise, consistent respect for the press code and the particular foundation of the principle of freedom and expression, we add ourselves to the public's interests. We think it's terribly important because all of these party representations, all of these candidates are not because of parties or candidates, they're for the public. First of all, we have to keep in mind the citizens' interest, the interest of the voters. Those are key words. The public has the right to know who appears, how many relevant have the right to be familiar or to be reminded of what has happened with some previous pre-election promises and their realisation in each of the individual policy options that are relevant. What happened to the guaranteed cards and the guarantees on those guaranteed cards, with Plan 21 with every promise? How many cornerstones have been laid, and how many of these projects have been completed? Because only then will the public be able to make quality and measure decisions. The public has a right to know, for example. Whether the party whose leader says that if he wins the power to change history textbooks has the right to know in which way the history textbooks will be changed, maybe history itself will change. It's understandable to me, it's completely understandable to me, it makes sense to me. It seems to me that if the party comes to power, they have to do so because otherwise, in the history books, they will write about what rulings have been made against certain parties, that judgments have been passed against the head, the prime minister of a government, on 10m euros in bribery. Well, of course, then we need to change history textbooks because God forbid it gets into such textbooks and stays in them forever. Here it is guaranteed that the esteemed Peđa Grbin has already said the equality of all election lists because Croatian TV and Croatian Radio will provide at least five minutes to present political programmes for all participants in the elections. It's going to be the most boring part of this representation. The most boring part is if it's like in last election 122 lists times 5 minutes 610 minutes, 10 hours. So who's going to listen for 10 hours to be represented by five minutes of political parties and who can remember them. This, however, fulfils one obligation to the parties, according to the lists, and then we come to the citizens' interest, to follow an optional part beyond this mandatory part where the media itself can organise representation so as to enable citizens to have full information. Here we also propose an amendment that publishers can organise candidates' meetings, it says in election units, we propose that it be in elections and not in election units, so let the media decide whether it will be by election units, whether it will be for the whole state as it suits them. That depends, what does that mean, what makes it possible? This allows two candidates to face each other, e.g. to discuss security policy or education, health care about agriculture so that citizens know. Two relevant representatives or three or five relevant lists are invited to know that citizens can tell what will happen if any of these lists are in a position to form power, whether or not they will change historical textbooks. Now, there's this controversial thing that the HDZ is complaining about, it's the possibility of dealing with people that the participants in the elections have highlighted as candidates for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. We really don't have an office system and we don't choose an Chancellor, it's true but objecting to this, but I guess every relevant party that goes to the elections has an idea of who will be able to form the authority of who will be prime minister from that party. And citizens regardless of these... the comments have the right to hear that person, have the right to hear the journalistic questions asked by that person and hear the answers from that person and compare them with the answers of other candidates, other parties who claim the same duty. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's in the interest of the citizens. Only someone who is afraid can object to this, who is extremely afraid that his candidate will pass through and what he will have to say. For content and formal reasons, the SDP club will support these rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85975	Peja Grbin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85976	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, I'd just look back on what my colleague Stazic said. Italy doesn't have an office system, so it has a debate between two candidates for Prime Minister. Someone will say well, in Italy is chosen on the basis of a list, we have persons who are the bearers of these lists, perhaps Italy is not the best example. But imagine what system has been set up to debate between the two candidates for Prime Minister, Great Britain. And do you know what's chosen in Great Britain? One person is elected in one constituency. Gordon Brown, when he was a candidate in the 2010 election, was not a candidate for Prime Minister, he was a candidate in his constituency. Same as Mr. Cameron, same as Mr.... but the orderly Great Britain organised the confrontation of such candidates because their political party highlighted them as its candidates for the Prime Minister. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And why is that? Because the British public had a right to know. So why does the British public have the right to know, the Italian public has the right to know, the European public when we talk about the European Commission has the right to know and the Croatian public would have no right to know who will lead it or who will run the executive power in the Republic of Croatia after the parliamentary elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85977	The reply to the replica of Vice President Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85978	In politics it is very important or should be important to be consistent. When it was in the first parliamentary elections, when the lists were published, the late President Tudjman was a candidate in one of the election units for MPs in parliament. The HDZ then represented him as the future head of state even though the presidential elections had not yet been organised. They were, so he was a candidate in... I think it's in the first election. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the time HDZ did not raise such objections, it did not bother them, but as I said in politics there should be some consistency.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85979	On behalf of the HNS Club, colleague Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85980	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, it should be reiterated that the legal obligation of the Croatian Parliament, which it has therefore granted itself, is to adopt the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament, the adoption of rules on the conduct of electronic media with national concessions in the Republic of Croatia during the election promotion. So the Croatian Parliament has to make such rules, she did it in 2003 with a novel in 2007, and here seven years later it actually shows the results of the norms that we then brought as bad. In fact, the rules of media monitoring of elections should contribute to the hearing and visibility of candidates. It would have to contribute to the public's understanding of key political messages. It should contribute to making it easier for voters to identify who stands for what, who offers what policies and what people propose to be responsible for implementing such policies after the election tomorrow. The experience of the past shows that it was simply not so. The rules so far have allowed for the creation of a cacophony in which everything was just not what was meant to be achieved. And then what could the national media have done? Follow formal obligations by broadcasting hours and hours of programs in which already known things have been repeated or presented with highly ridiculated ideas and created one forest from which one cannot see what one actually wants, which of all these candidates and lists is relevant and who will actually tomorrow, at the request of the voters, influence the formation of state policies and different policies. The media rightly warned that existing rules do not allow for the elemental things that lead to democratic processes in the election process itself. They warned that the existing rules were such as to make life worse for them, to actually underestimate them because they do not allow them to be judged, because they do not allow them to focus on important topics, select relevant partners and open debates that are important for decision-making. The rules here are an extremely important document. It is a framework in which there is a very important part of the pre-election process and it affects the electoral process. And as right are those who say that the electoral process at all levels, that is, all electoral laws should be redesigned, unified and put into one electoral law, is right and those who say that the right hand is so successful in clarifying electoral rules, in promoting them, democratisation the whole process as well as making clear rules for media monitoring. Of course, when it comes to the media with a national concession because all locals are practically left to judgment and their local cancer. The new institute introduced by this proposal for rules is the face-to-face of candidates. There is no doubt that it is of public interest to present candidates for whom key policy options, i.e. lists with the greatest chance of becoming parliamentary, regardless of what level we are talking about, present their people for whom they guarantee in advance that they will be the holders or coordinators of certain policies. In this particular case, people who will bear the full responsibility of leading the government. Of that, there can be absolutely no harm, but only benefits. The public has the right to know what the person that the list is running for elections and informally nominating for the future Prime Minister if the party, the list or the option comes into place to get a mandate to put the government together, what it means, how it communicates, how it refers to its counterparts, how it refers to other ideas, other people, other political actors, other political options. They're all elements based on which people judge who they want to lead them. So there is no doubt that this is a public interest and it is necessary to enable not only the so-called "intervention" of the so-called "public interest". A series of candidates, as well as the face-to-face of people who will be responsible for individual policies, to hear relevant several people who will debate monetary policy, fiscal policy, social policy, development policies and the economy in general, but also about culture, science, health. On this basis, people can identify themselves, and if we want to continue to be a high rate of abstinence, that people rightly continue to say that they no longer know who they really represent and who they stand for and who they are and that they're practically in that mass because they don't get to look at everything and they see only one random pattern, people like that can't believe, they turn from politics, they turn from the electoral process and eventually stay home. If, therefore, we want to contain this one process that is fatal to society because it creates inactive citizenship, it is dying society as such and creates a space for the domination of the state, and we liberals are against it, so if we want this process to go in a positive direction then we must also allow the media to contribute to it. I don't doubt their good will, no matter what the media has the right to define itself, but I don't see any harm in it. Readers, viewers, listeners recognize political preferences and do not mind even serving specific political messages from private media. It's probably why some media are following, listening, watching, reading. But without it, without that role, there is no real contribution to democratisation of the electoral process. There's no doubt about it. Therefore, the HNS Club will support the adoption of the proposal for rules on the handling of electronic media with national concessions in the Republic of Croatia during the election promotion. And as for the amendment, we'll make a statement about them at the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85981	On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague of Sunchana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85982	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I see great interest in this topic of politicians who would be so happy to perform in the media, and the Croatian public you can think of is looking forward to politicians talking to them for hours. Let's not lie to each other. Our own sins are the most startled when we see them in others. Maybe this debate could come to mind. I will speak very specifically of what we have seen and express regret that, in the public debate, no good proposals have been seen and have not been accepted, for example the proposals, i.e. the remarks of the Croatian Journalist Society. And I'm going to suggest a colleague to the coat of arms might be good if this goes in two readings. I think there's this possibility, as far as your board's colleagues are saying, to think about it. So very specific. The public change study should be complemented by a point - Public change testing is not allowed two weeks before the election. Namely, I'll explain why. You know very well that sometimes the interrogation or the most frequent public study is used for promotional purposes, not for information, but for such perfiduously suggesting to voters who are to be voted on. The need for this provision is so much greater because we already have experience of the vast with manipulating the results of research that were most often significantly different from the results of the elections. I can only repeat that according to all relevant polls, the Croatian Democratic Community would not win the last three elections but lose, and I will remind you we got them. As for the programme rights of publishers, the possibility of facing candidates for Prime Minister. Article 19 also states that these rules apply to elections for the President of the Republic of Croatia. We think it should be added that another show should also be provided to face candidates for the president of the Republic of Croatia in the second round, which is left out here, which is not here. So, I think it was a failure. How to present the participants in the election and the rules of the publishers. So the publishers are obliged to provide an adequate space for presenting the political programme of participants in the elections. Maybe the terms themselves should be predetermined. That's what we talked about on the boards, because you'll agree to not the same presentation at 10:00 in the morning or at 5:00 in the afternoon. You know what it's like with television programs. Thank God there are still a lot of people working in the Republic of Croatia, so in those terms they are not even home. If we already advocate that everyone gets the right to hear everything and that everyone has the right to hear what certain political parties or candidates individuals have to say. As for the programme rules for monitoring elections for representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is quite flexible to act in a provision that publishers retain the right to media format the report and determine its duration and time of transmission. A journalist or editor may have a little too much freedom to form a report. It can shorten it, extend it as much as it wants, put on some statements, or tones of what suits it. So, without some bad intentions or doubts about the authors of contributions, that is, journalists and editors. But we think this is quite flexible. I'll do it again as far as chapter two is concerned. So, an unacceptable and legally questionable provision to call for a face-to-face in any media candidate for prime minister, the president, because our electoral system doesn't know that kind of candidacy regardless of how this was intended to be explained or wanted to say it in some other way, so I guess everyone knows. For example, he will not be offended by his colleague, Shemper, but perhaps his party does not enter the coalition with anyone. They won't have a candidate for prime minister, but they want to enter Parliament and I think we put them in a discriminating position here, or that we make it impossible for anyone to hear it in that kind of confrontation. It is unacceptable that TV publishers are almost self-organizing the form and form of the show, including the choice of guests. So, colleagues and colleagues, this is the way we're rather disputable and we're also asking to think about it. In this regard, the publishers, because of the attractiveness of their shows, and in fact because of advertisers and possible other interests, are completely disabling any necessary equality of all participants in the election game. The choices of any kind are not meant for fun. Elections aren't fun. The election is a very serious matter. The elections are the moment when people who do not absorb from them want to change something, want to give someone their trust and elections do not have to be attractive and they do not serve it anywhere, nor is the electoral system designed to entertain someone. Anyone who enters an election race has a program, let's hope for serious intentions. Whether or not some of my predecessors spoke about them in the election of people. Similarly, it is not specified who will control national radio-television and by which criteria the concept of relevance will be defined. There's something else discussionable. So there can be an objection if we are not satisfied with something., we see that there have been violations of some rules to the National Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia, and then you can appeal to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. However, this is not very much achieved because such a complaint is not considered to be a rush, it will not be resolved within 48 hours. And in the end, its outcome can be even after the elections have been made, which is really pointless. So this should definitely be regulated in a different way. As regards specialised programs, whether they are subject to these rules, it is responsible that they are not subject to these rules either to the Internet or to the printed media that we can agree on. But in the end, what we're trying to say is, changing the rules is necessary but not in this way, not this hasty. It is true that a public debate or consultation with an interested public was held, however it is equally true that the same public here actually came across a closed door because almost none of the objections were accepted. What we are expressing doubts about at the HDZ Club in light of any legislative initiatives that have generally not ended well is an even more visible intention to offend other parties or individuals by such a proposal. Because you know the dignity of a man actually consists of his choice. We will remain restrained by having such a proposal ahead of us, and my colleague Grbin will answer me if there is any chance and the possibility that it will go in two readings, which we would like and we would really like to determine how everyone who wants to participate in the election process in the Republic of Croatia in any election will have the same chance but also so as to enable the publishers to arrange their space properly here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85983	Peja Grbin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85984	Thank you. You say it hastily, on April 9th, these rules are addressed to a public debate, April 9th. The public hearing lasted 45 days. Please tell me how many objections did you or your party file in that public debate? That's what you tell me. After that, tell me at committee meetings, for example at the the thematic session of the board, how many members of your party participated, talked about this in contrast to, say, radio-based persons, all publishers with national concessions of radio and television were otherwise at that session and unanimously supported the adoption of these rules and their remarks were also respected. They were representatives of scientific institutions in the Republic of Croatia, representatives of citizens' associations and a beautiful part of political parties, not all. At that time, the comments you had or believed that you would have them so that we could talk about them. But you didn't do it. And then today, five months after the first proposal drastically changed, you're talking about the light of the day that you needed to talk more. For example, as far as we're not talking, it's visible from the amendments we submitted today. These amendments were not created in the SDP club but were created at the Centre for Media Research and Communication of the Faculty of Political Sciences, which at the session of the Committee you attended pointed to certain remarks and then directed them in writing and helped us formulate. You didn't do it, of course. And now for the end of one thing, regarding the deadlines of the Constitutional Court. Only the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, any other act lower than that, may set deadlines for the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85985	Thank you. Sunny Head, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85986	Thank you very much. It's nice to meet you, Mr. Grbin. You've shown one emotion. That's very nice to meet you. You know, when you want things to be good, then sometimes it takes a year and two. Well, yeah, I don't know what the problem is. I don't know what's bothering you. I don't know if we were so quiet or if we weren't loud enough on the boards and my colleague Mesic and I were talking about exactly what I was just telling you on behalf of the club. And colleague Mlakar was equally loud enough on your board. Therefore, I see no reason why we should be upset. And we say it's necessary. It's necessary, but why don't we talk and at least something about the media after three years of trying to make a consensus. But nothing, but nothing from the media sector, nothing about the media in the Republic of Croatia since SDP's been in power we haven't brought consensus and that's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85987	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85988	My colleague Glavak, I guess in Croatia it's kind of a valid right that whoever is in a position to make the rules of the game to bring the rules of the game that he thinks will suit him and will be stronger. However, there have been all kinds of situations in Croatia in the past. We've had a situation that one coalition has gone with two people on the campaign, one will be the Prime Minister, the other will be the President of the Parliament. Now you might think that this confrontation proposed by this law was at the start of the campaign, it would be one man, and in a week it would be another man. What would voters think? And my colleague Stazic mentions some books. No one from HDZ has said anything, but colleagues from the SDP have already made, they are a book, I think it's called "Politicals and Entrepreneurship" gave a picture and an opportunity of their party and politics. Because they gave it and pointed it out as an example. Running away from these people and hiding out whether it's gonna be like that in the campaign, that's the question. But when someone senses that the ground slips under his feet, they agree with each other the way they think they're going to get it. And the Spanish agreed to play with the Americans' finals, so they didn't even get to the semifinals. So some think that something is their advantage, but they are not aware that our greatest advantage is exactly what they think is their advantage.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85989	It's worth both of us. The answer to the replica? There isn't. On behalf of the HSU Club, colleague Zeljko Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85990	Thank you, Madam Vice President. We welcome the revision of the existing rules on the conduct of electronic media with national concessions in the Republic of Croatia during the election promotion as an over-needed initiative that results in a better, more impartial and more understandable presentation of candidates in the elections. The model of television confrontation is far the best way to present candidates for parties participating in the elections in a certain format of time. The presentations so far have often come down to a memorized text that candidates literally recited in front of TV cameras during a very limited period of time. If election presentations are about the mere repetition of the most important features of the electoral programme and the number of times already spoken floscule, after which the next candidate or candidate is doing so, and thus in the circle, citizens are unable to get an answer to the topics that are vital to the Croatian public. This increase in minutes available for the presentation of political programmes for all participants in the HRT and HR elections from the previous 2 minutes to the current proposed 5, allows candidates to be presented more in a better way to the citizens. However, it is the task of editors and managers of individual emissions to design such a format in which, in addition to guaranteed minutes, the dynamics of the conversation, the quality of the debate through polite communication, and the possibility of bringing out arguments and counter-arguments of all parties involved. While the paid media space is regulated in such a way as money, so much music, which is quite legitimate, a common promotional space on public television, i.e. the radio must represent a free zone in which no party or list is favored, but is allowed in an objective and impartial manner to debate. Public change research when designing emission formats for election promotion will provide editors of these shows with clear guidelines and serve as a form for asking as high quality and relevant questions to candidates who then get an adequate opportunity to provide Croatian public with answers to questions and, in accordance with their ability to present themselves in the election race. The HSU Club will support these improvements.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85991	On behalf of the promoter, colleague Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85992	Thank you. So when we talk about consistency, we have to remember how these rules used to change. For the last time, as I said, those rules were amended in 2007 on 12 October 2007 by 72 votes, 52 against and 5 abstentions. So we didn't even have a consensus then. And why is it important that these rules were adopted on October 12, 2007? Because another decision was made that day. On that day, this House decided to disband the House so that elections could be held in Croatia. So in 2007 the rules on monitoring, we brought the media monitoring campaign the day before the start of the campaign, and the document is the committee that the proposer sent to the Croatian Parliament this time on 11 October 2007. So, please, when you talk about acting, remember how you used to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85993	On behalf of the club Croatian Labour Party, colleague Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85994	Dear Vice-Presidents, few colleagues and colleagues, Croatian Labourists have some thoughts about these rules. We primarily believe that the rules so far have been quite bad, that they have been the brakes of one quality media presentation, election promotion and accordingly this is one step better when it comes to the election campaign and the media promotion that the media should present to voters. It is clear that objective representation, what certain parties or individuals suggest, is very important to have equal rights, equal conditions for all under which to present their programme, their ideas and their thinking and thus create voters, voters that they can objectively and decide who they will vote on. That is why we think that these rules do not have any major obstacles through 21 points, that this part of objectivity could not be achieved, but it is true, there is what Croatian Labourists personally consider not to have reached the end of a quality solution, which is a matter of which there was talk, questionable question of the presentation of candidates for the government of the Republic of Croatia because, regardless of the fact that there is no obstacle because we do not have such a post-election system to propose directly to government candidates, but there may be cases of individual candidates for prime minister or prime minister or prime minister of the government presenting themselves, and in fact there may be something else that might happen, that we have some post-election coalitions and it should not be entirely about some other people who will emerge in these post-election coalitions, not those who represented themselves, but also that part of media representation is not very well solved for us in this way, but in the end should not be any way that they are already prevent certain programmes. What has already been pointed out as a particular problem, and this is a question of the public change which is set out in point 4 here, we also believe that a certain deficit is not as indicated here, but we believe that a week before the elections, we should not conduct certain surveys and give them to the public if we know that they can influence certain results, they can sometimes be set up, sometimes they can also be ordered regardless of what these provisions say and the data they ordered and the one who did them, but knowing that all of these data can be manipulated. And that is why we believe that there would have to be a certain time limit below which it could not be presented that part of the public change in the survey could it have an impact on voters. And within that, the proposal may be such that there are still certain remarks and suggestions if the Proposer considers another reading can be made in a shorter period and in some ways correct and improve this part of the text that could be more quality. But this is also the solution we think is better than the proposal so far, and Croatian Labourists will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85995	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the draft rules when the conditions are met. A few colleagues and colleagues, tomorrow at 9.30, we will begin the report on the work of the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest for 2013 and, as announced, we will work with point 11. Good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85996	Proposal for rules on the conduct of electronic media with national concessions in the Republic of Croatia during the election promotion. The debate on the text of the rules is over. The amendments were submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club. I would like the representative of the honourable Pejo Grbin, the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure to declare the amendments. Amendment 1 to point 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85997	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85998	Amendment 2 to point 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u85999	The amendment shall be accepted in a modified form in such a way that the figure 4 stands in paragraph 2 instead of number 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u86000	I'm asking the president of the SDP club if he accepts this modified form? The amendment has been accepted in a changed form. Amendment 3 to point 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u86001	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u86002	Amendment 4 to point 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u86003	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-17-0.u86004	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and I'm voting on the draft rules. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 92 votes for and 25 abstentions, have adopted the rules on the handling of electronic media with national concessions in the Republic of Croatia during the election promotion in the text as proposed by the proposal, together with the amendments adopted.
