ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83046	My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good day and we will continue our work. We will discuss - A report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality for 2013 by the Advocate General for Gender Equality delivered the report on the basis of Article 22. Gender equality laws. You've received the material. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Gender Equality, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership. You received their reports at the session. The opening report will be explained by the Ombudsman for gender equality Mrs Višnja Ljubicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83047	Good afternoon, everyone. Honored Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. Allow me to address you in front of the Ombudsman's institution for gender equality related to the annual report on the work of the institution for 2013. So, as well as entering the mandate of the Ombudsman's institution for gender equality, we have dealt with the implementation of the organic law on gender equality and all other laws that enter the mandate of the Ombudsman for gender equality, we have dealt with discrimination on the basis of gender, marital, family status, gender identity, sexual orientation, in areas assigned to us by the Law on Gender Equality, that is, areas of work, family employment, domestic violence, education, political participation, media and other areas in charge and established by the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination of Discrimination. I must say that due to the presence of an institution at local level for the last two years, we have been present in the media, an increase recorded by 178%, thus increasing the total number of cases by almost 41% which were covered by discrimination issues that were established in more than 2% compared to 2012. Statistics show that citizens and citizens mostly complain about sexual discrimination in over 77% of cases. In most cases, women are damaged, almost 2/3 of women are damaged, 5% of them complain about discrimination based on sexual orientation, 2% on marital status, 1% on gender identity, 13% of complaints we found there was no basis for discrimination, there was no basis for treatment, and that was one trend of cca 13% almost passing through the last 2-3 years. In the capacity of the Ombudsman institution, I must say that we are an institution that has existed for 10 years, there are 9 persons employed, we have conducted 9 independent surveys, one in the field of justice, and this has been a research into what is the legal situation, what is the status of the penitentiary in the Požega penitentiary, one in access to services, so according to complaints from women who are pregnant and mothers on maternity leave, and in what way banks approve them or do not approve loans. Two studies in the field of media, two research on the parental care of fathers in the field of social care and justice, two studies in the field of education and one study on reproductive health, so what kind of birth treatment is in maternity care. As an expert in court proceedings by prosecutors and prosecutors in cases of discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, we continued to monitor three court proceedings based on the powers of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination,... which we carried out two settlement procedures related to sexual orientation, related to sexual discrimination, sexual harassment in the Ministry of Defence system and in the Ministry of the Interior system, with the possibility of making an extrajudicial settlement and the consent of the victim. We have sent 168 written proposals, 227 warnings, 503 recommendations, initiated the launch of one misdemeanor report and gave an initiative to amend three laws. Due to the limited financial resources, we have applied to the European Union funds. We have been granted funding from the European Commission related to a single project related to the glass ceiling and have been granted funds from the French Embassy, the British Embassy, which we received from the basis of registered tenders. The activities that we have based on complaints from citizens and citizens, analysis and research that marked the work of the institution in the past year were primarily related to the field of labour and employment, work and employment visibility of the issue of discrimination between pregnant women and women based on motherhood in the labour market and sexual harassment in working relations. The most complaints we have received relate to the field of labour and employment, 61% of complaints. In order to see how the complaints are related to other areas, I must say that only 7% of complaints relating to the area of justice and administration, 6 to the field of information and media, 3 to the area of education, science and sports, and 1 to health care. You will see a great disproportion with respect to areas where citizens and citizens are discriminated against. The cases considered show further deterioration of women's unfavourable position on the labour market anyway, increasing the number of work contracts for a certain period of time. In 2013, it was 94% of all new contracts, in 2012, it was 92%. In previous years, let's say the last seven years from 80% to 94% we've come in the past 2013. It particularly concerns the rate and increase unemployment among highly educated women. As many as 67% of women with high expertise are at the Employment Service, newly unemployed women in 2013 are 52%. The pay gap remains still 10 to 11%. As a result, the pay gap is reflected in pension levels, so that men receive 3 average pension benefits more annually. Women are at increased risk of poverty because 53% do not have enough means to live, 55% do not have income to support them. We constantly accept complaints about sexual harassment. 45.7% that only women stand for. About 22% of complaints were filed for adverse treatment on grounds of maternity leave, based on motherhood. We witness the unbalanced representation of women and men in the management structures. If it's companies with less market power then it's somewhere between 16% and 17%. Because of the above and in public we spoke and talked to the Resort Ministry, we pointed to the failures and insufficient provisions of the existing Labour Act, as well as the new Bill on Labour Protection for Workers and Workers, as well as the powers of the Labour Inspectorate in the arbitrary conduct of employers and of resorting to violations of anti-discrimination guarantees. In the context of the implementation of the progress of the project from 2013 to 2015, we point out the need for balanced representation of both sexes as this increases the likelihood that employers will be more aware and will be more sensitive in terms of discriminatory obstacles that occur within society and that they meet women or men, and we know women most often. The second area by number of complaints is domestic violence. We have initiated in the educational process of police officers and officials their sensibilization and gender-sensitive approach in cases of domestic violence. We made an agreement with the Police Academy about their education. According to the Police Directorate's data, a total offence was reported in 2013 somewhere around 16 and a half thousand people. A smaller application trend is applied. 64% of damaged persons are female, over 73% of women are victims of crimes. What concerns us and what we point to is that a relatively large number of women who have been reported for violent conduct or who have been detained and brought to court for violations is even 43.2% which is an unusually high trend in relation to the existing situation in the European Union and the international community. I will mention the report by the High Commissioner for the Prevention of Violence Ms. Manju, Rashid Manju, who said whether women in the Republic of Croatia have become violent or whether it is not to recognize who the victim is and who the perpetrator is in domestic violence. It concerns what is happening and how it is less recognized and often does not recognize the economic violence in the family. All together, it points to the need for education, continuous education, sensitization of all professionals. I will mention from the protocol on the conduct of family violence that they should take care of what the protocol tells us how to act and how to be professional, spotting in such a problem. The third area marked by the work of the Ombudsman institution was that as damaged persons, fathers complained about the achievement of parental care followed by two studies on expert opinions and proposals involving 118 centres for social care and we analysed 151 judgments at the Municipal Court in Zagreb concerning the award of parental care to fathers after divorce proceedings. We followed the media, we made public statements. It's a question of sexism, sexist statements, homophobic attacks. So it's all still in the media. The media monitoring, the results of public television research, press media, the Internet portals that we have conducted have shown that 18 years after the Beijing Platform 10 years after the adoption of the Law on Gender Equality, after 5 national policies to promote gender equality, the media continues to practice sexual stereotypes, sexism, media editors, there are still misunderstandings about how much of an obstacle to achieving gender equality is the way women are shown, and to a lesser extent, men. If we want to create a society of equality between women and men then women and the female body cannot be goods traded in order to increase profits or visit media content. For all these reasons, we have approached agencies, institutions dealing with media surveillance. We held meetings with them to better cooperate and to level the criteria and standards when such concessions occur in public. I must say that this was the second year in a row where we held education workshops with editors and editors of television and radios of our media house. We also conducted two studies on women and men's representations and topics related to gender equality in HTV shows and how to report on domestic violence in the media. Of course, the area of education is one big challenge for every society that moves towards democratic development. We analyzed 66 textbooks of nature and society, nature and biology in 2013 and analyzed the experimental implementation of civic education and education in several schools. We launched an initiative to introduce a systematic education for the application of anti-discrimination law in the area of higher education, professional training. In fact, we have noticed that there is a specific problem in court proceedings where a large number of claims which do not contain a basis, a specification of which discriminatory basis is an indication that a significant number of lawyers and lawyers are still undereducated and still have doubts about how anti-discrimination guarantees are applied. Such a way of working unquestionably makes it difficult for courts to work and reduces the efficiency of protection. For the purpose of professional training of lawyers and lawyers, judges and judges, we have requested the contributions of the Croatian Bar Association, the Judicial Academy, the Faculty of Law in the Republic of Croatia, civil society organisations and all in order to improve the effectiveness of anti-discrimination protection. I must say that we have received great support from the Croatian Bar of Law who is interested in such education, the Faculty of Law in Zagreb, Osijek and Split have already shown some shifts. Women are still under-represented in the field of political participation, whether it is about inclusion in the candidate lists, public representation of the party or final election results. The analysis of local elections from 2001 to 2013 shows that there has been a small shift in women's representation in representative bodies and units of local, regional (regional) self-government over the 12-year period. Taking into account the length of the 12-year time period, the fact that both national policies and the Law on Gender Equality are adopted today's state of representation of women of only 18% at local level cannot be considered satisfactory and the fulfillment of the principle of gender equality should be particularly highlighted by the marked stagnation and minor shifts in relation to local elections since 2009. This second year in a row includes issues, problems faced by particularly sensitive social groups that are at risk of multiple discrimination because they are at greater risk of violence, of poverty, of economic dependence on their partners, subject to gender stereotypes, prejudices or stigmatisation. So in this report we processed women in rural areas, women with disabilities, women with national minorities, women in penitentiary, women victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War, women in prostitution and victims of human trafficking. Finally, the institution was actively involved in legislative initiatives, opinions on legislative solutions. We have achieved a proactive approach both with state authorities and with educational institutions and with trade unions and with international regional organisations for the purpose of respecting the principle of gender equality as given to us in the mandate by the Law on Equality and Legal Stakeholders of the EU. In this report, we gave a total of 56 recommendations. We propose to the government of the Republic of Croatia to consider them and to discuss them in this House. I thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83048	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. Ivan Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83049	I thank you for the information we have heard now, but I am in principle against the Committee on Gender Equality because we are all equal before the law regardless of sex, nationality, worldview, and this principle should be respected. On the other hand, a good analysis of the position of women has been made here, but if the Commission for the Protection of Men were to be established, I think we would also get convincing analyses that would indicate that men today are quite endangered and that, in fact, or we will come to this if we persist, that we will have the Commission and gender equality when it comes to men. I know a lot of things, but I wouldn't go out with them right now, that much. I just want to say that let's respect the principles of the Constitution that we are all equal before the law and then these commissions that are founded lose their own meaning and their effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83050	Replication response, Mrs. Vishna Ljubice.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83051	I thank you for opening this question. It's often heard in the public that the D.A. is talking exclusively about women's rights. I always point out that this is an institution for gender equality and that I'm talking about both men and women. However, statistics, complaints that come clearly show that those who complain who are most discriminated against in all these areas are precisely women. And that's why I always put an emphasis on those who need to be protected and those who are in a more unfavourable position. Of course, when we talk about the field of work and employment, both men and women lose jobs, but there are still situations that I have now statistically explained that women are in a far more unfavourable situation. Equally when we talk about domestic violence, education, political participation, media conditions, etc. I must say that the complaints we receive from men in domestic violence are very shy, regarding sexual harassment in recent years, we haven't had a single complaint. Men appear to us about sexism in the media to a lesser extent, but they do appear critically and think about it in a way that they either discriminate or put themselves in an unfavourable position by themselves or their partners, their daughters, their children. Here, I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83052	Joseph Salapic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83053	Thank you, Vice President. The esteemed attorney, of course, is that we accept your report and all the information you have provided. But I am expressing my personal concern a little freely that we are a country that has formally fulfilled our form and the task of membership in the European Union, and we will be fulfilling the content for a long time. With us, this topic of gender equality is used only as a form for pre-election matches, for various drillings, for which there were more protection rights for any woman. We also had a referendum where we defined that marriage is a community of women and men, and just like that, there are people who are domestic thugs who threaten their wives, their children, and there are those in church lines. In my opinion, the Church is a little concerned with matters of family protection and domestic violence, which is one of the issues that we have as a criminal offence provided for in the Penal Code, but we are witnessing that many are protecting such people in society, and in particular in politics, there is everything there is. I especially advocate the education that you've been talking about, I'm in favour of a prevention that must be much stronger than it is given, but for a much stricter sanction in the Penal Code there's room. So educated judges, our judiciary, the judicial bodies, the judicial academy all this is nice to hear, but practice shows the exact opposite. Even the local community should get more involved in these problems. We know that the mayors, and the mayors, and the mayors, and a little more commissioners in the smaller environments, have very much information about what's going on with the families. If we are going to be a country of trust and protection of children and families, then we need to take this subject seriously and not formally, if we are just fulfilling the form, then we are far from being a country that fully respects both constitutional rights and our international obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83054	Replication response, Mrs. Vishna Ljubice.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83055	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I thank you for your comment. Of course, I agree with you, and as the head of this institution, I can say that we are making an enormous effort to prevent, educate and amend certain laws in order to improve them. However, we believe that it is extremely important to change the education system where we will learn a little more about civic education and real democracy, and about tolerance towards diversity. If we're destructive in such a way that we think we have something... , and if de facto we were having a difficult time, then many of these institutions that are independent and that work hard in all areas in a transparent manner could be closed professionally. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe that all of us as part of this society, MPs, representatives of public institutions and public bodies really need to be committed to this work and to work with the heart to carry out our tasks. I hold as a person who has worked for the last 15 years to harmonise the legislative system of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union legislation that has really been done a lot, but many more challenges remain ahead of us if we want to accept the standards of the northern European states that have done a lot but that have a far democratic internship from the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83056	And Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83057	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Madam Attorney, before I begin with the replica, I would like to say and look back among other things and to your answer to Mr Grubisic, yes, he said that before the law everyone is equal. Before the law, you should all be equal, he forgot to say that all are equal before God. And what I want to ask you now is what you've done about it, and what kind of campaign are you going to do about the Council of Europe convention in preventing and fighting violence against women? We know that we are one of the EU member states that we have not yet completed, or ratified. Our laws do not really follow the Convention, and other things that I think are very important, when you will start a campaign in which you will ask for an indication of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose an amendment to the Law on Gender Equality so that, before holding the next parliamentary elections, the obligation of political parties and other authorised authors of the list will be introduced to take care of the balanced representation of women and men on election lists when determining and proposing candidates or candidates. I ask this not to be understood in the Assembly, but also in the public that women are not looking for any priorities, but simply tools and they are almost all EU members, and we are, they have this law and I think it is necessary. They are going to the parliamentary elections, and there is still no idea which parliamentary ones, or which elections, account for the proposal on women's representation on the lists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83058	Mrs. Višnja Ljubičić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83059	I thank you for opening these questions. Of course, in January of last year, the Republic of Croatia signed Istanbul, so-called The Istanbul Convention, which is extremely important for all the countries of the Council of Europe that will ratify it. Why? Because it's the first international document to mention that violence against women, any form of violence, is gender-controlled violence. This Convention requires a number of adjustments in the field of education, in the area of economic independence, in the area of institutional mechanisms, in the area of gender equality, therefore related to family violence. Of course, I was, here I came back from Sarajevo yesterday, we listed institutions dealing with gender equality issues, a regional one platform on regional co-operation, the Republic of Croatia unfortunately has not yet ratified the Convention, BiH is, I know, Serbia too. We really believe that this convention should be signed, but it also requires a series of obligations that the state really needs to take, most of this obligation also concerns financial aspects. Provide free legal assistance, financing shelters, SOS phones, etc. Regarding amendments to the Law on Gender Equality, I must say that the Assembly Committee on Gender Equality also discussed what would happen with political quotas, which would be with the existing law where political quotas were kind of extended. I do not think it is necessary to elaborate as much as necessary, there are today political quotas because the research carried out at EU level by countries that had political quotas from 30 years ago, for example Denmark which also interrupted them and prescribed them for showing their effectiveness and implementation of its effectiveness. Of course we will insist on that in agreement with both the parent bodies and finally with political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83060	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, colleague Sonja König. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83061	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of our Parliament. The esteemed attorney with the associate, co-worker and co-worker. We live in a patriarchal society. For that, we don't need any special evidence, enough to look all around. Just look at who's sitting in a position where key decisions are made, enough to look at who's sitting in power positions. And it's not only not fair... Comrade Shuker, look at you in the party and see how many of us are in the Parliament, 24% is a woman. So not only is it not fair, it is not good for society because it excludes, or does not use many knowledge, many experience, and many skills of many of our fellow citizens. And she has rightly warned and is still warning the lawyer about gender equality. Because women influence the quality and development of our society, the development of every society and it is interesting and instructive research that we have already mentioned here once, and it is about exploring all our units of local self-government, it is about exploring the comparison of the index of development of all municipalities, cities and counties in the Republic of Croatia with the number of elected councils in their congregations or councils. And a short survey showed that according to the development index brought by the government of the Republic of Croatia, the municipalities, cities and counties in which more women were elected and more developed. I think it's an important and powerful message to everyone. And strong messages, instructions, recommendations and activities were given to the Office of the Advocate General for Gender Equality, which I congratulate on behalf of the HNS Club on the dedicated work of all the past 10 years as well as particularly commending its work last year, and especially one unusual for our institutions, an extremely proactive approach. It is enough to provide a number of figures on the work of the office and the Ombudsman to show that, with quite limited financial resources, a lot can be done in its work. During 2013, the Ombudsman publicly stepped up and warned about the occurrences of discrimination by taking part in 102 round tables and conferences in our country, participated in and presented at 17 international and regional conferences, participated in 13 international studies, and conducted nine studies on its own. She has cooperated and supported the work of 45 different civil society organisations from all over our country. 103 times she performed on TV and radio shows, her statements were published in 363 press articles, press and internet portals, and regularly updated and informative web sites of the lawyers for gender equality in 2013 were visited almost a million and 255 thousand times. She co-operated with all the lawyers in the Republic of Croatia, and was particularly committed to increased co-operation of the office with local, or county committees for gender equality. So, on such an approach and such dedicated work, I would still like to congratulate, once again, on behalf of the HNS Club, all employees and employees of the Office for Gender Equality, or the Office of the Ombudsman for Gender Equality. However, as for gender equality in our country, the situation is unfortunately not to be congratulated because we live in a country where women are paid 10% less for the same job than their male colleagues, we live in a country where women occupy less than a third of the places in companies, for example. in the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, which is considered our largest scientific institution and art institution, there are less than 10% women. We live in a country where only 1 mayor in 21 counties was elected in the last local elections, in 127 cities there are only 11 mayors and of 429 municipalities of 28 mayors. Here in the Croatian Parliament, as we said, 24 percent of us are. We have to change such misunderstandings or we have to change them faster because the shifts of truth exist but they happen before, before, rather slowly. In this process, education and media are particularly important in the opinion of the HNS club. As for the media and accessibility of, for example, media politicians, research conducted in our Parliament by counterpart Martina Banic shows that MPs are significantly less present on HRT shows. In a poll with indifference, MPs stated that they are mainly called on on shows when it comes to topics related to family and social policy, as if other topics of opinion and attitude of women were not relevant. And that's not true and that's not good. It is important to hear different perspectives, experiences and views but it is important that we look at and listen to in the media, and in the media offices, the Ombudsman points out that in this report, there is a great misunderstanding about how much obstacle to achieving gender equality is the way women are publicly shown. Therefore, education on gender aspects and gender equality principles is necessary for media workers and workers, and should be systematically implemented at all levels. We, at the HNS Club, absolutely support this attitude and such a recommendation. But we also share your concern for the esteemed lawyer, who is involved in choosing the subject of public television because as your report points out, gender equality issues are extremely limited. And we agree that the duty of public television as a public service is to monitor social events and inform them but it is also a duty to problem certain topics that have wider social significance, which must be derived from ignoring or marginalising and put on the agenda and media and society. And the subject of gender equality is still, if judged by the media, marginalized even though some things are still changing for the better. Because while gender equality policy has been seen exclusively as a woman’s question for many years, this attitude is still changing, the view that only women and who benefit from equal relationships in society are increasingly changing. Many are the advantages and justice in the equal participation of both sexes in all spheres of life, and you have listed them as defenders in your report. They must be able to show and show the media, we must teach and teach our children, and in this field we are still coughing. It shows this, for example. research into the textbooks of nature and society, as well as the textbooks of ethics and religious sciences for the basics of the school conducted by the Ombudsman. If judging by the textbooks of ethics and religious science, at least it shows research, in raising children the role of a father is negligible, it almost doesn't exist. The situation in this matter is significantly better in the textbooks of nature and society and nature and biology where the equal distribution of family and parental obligations between partners is. However, in these textbooks, the stereotype division of professions is alarming. In fact, women are often attributed to professional practice traditionally in women's professions, e.g. teacher, librarian, cook, saleswoman and the like, and men traditionally male or male professions scientist, ruler, politician, farmer and the like. In this topic, respected attorneys, we share your opinion and the proposal that all teaching means be shaped in a gender-aware manner in order to give students and students the appropriate message that they can achieve all their potentials independently of sex, sexual orientation or other differences. For this reason, it is important to seek the more equal representation and way of showing individuals and individuals in all dimensions of teaching content, but everywhere else. Although the 2011 census shows that women in the overall population have become more educated than men because for the first time in Croatia, highly educated women are more than one of the largest violations of women's human rights in Croatia, they occur systematically in the context of educational and educational processes due to these still discriminatory patterns and stereotypes in school textbooks and insufficient education on sexuality and insufficient education on health. And world research has shown that in educated girls and women, the risk of sexually transmitted diseases is significantly reduced, and quality education has a strong impact on their confidence. I hope that the Attorney's Office will continue with this, but also similar research, even though it is available, as we have said, and you have listed lawyers with rather limited resources that you have spent well in some projects supported by EU funds. Perhaps by means of these funds we are proposing to think, it can expand the network, or the Attorney General's Office, and to other areas of our country as a model of some other defense attorneys. This would certainly further strengthen the scope of the lawyer's gender equality affairs which, in our opinion, is doing very well what we have entrusted her with and as a Assembly, the club of the CNS will support your report by respected lawyers for gender equality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83062	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83063	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues of König, your first sentence in your presentation said that Croatia remains a deeply patriarchal society which I agree with because several examples should be cited. Here is recently in the debate in the Croatian Parliament on a referendum on marriage a beautiful number of MPs and MPs supported the idea that not marriage but family were spoken exclusively by a community of men, women and children. Yes, yes, a fine number of MPs talked about it and even on behalf of clubs. Some of our euro deputies, therefore, who were elected in Croatia recently, wanted to vote for equality between women and men at the end of last term. When a prominent gynecologist, a doctor with great political ambitions, pointed out in an interview that women living alone, as he called them, often talk about it because I find it astounding to forbid the possibility of medically aiding insemination. No one, but not a single doctor, not a politician's office, has responded to that. So the guideline is very clear about women living alone being less valuable. And we've heard, of course, a lot of qualifications from political life about that, for example. single mothers don't know how to raise their children properly, and so on and so forth. Therefore, I very much agree with your finding that we are still a deeply patriarchal society, and that many, especially in gender equality policy, only put the mark on democracy when they need it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83064	The answer to the replica of Sonja König.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83065	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, Kosor, you've said absolutely well. However, it all starts with a family and it all starts with or continues with education, a system of education. That is why I once again show a very important and significant civic education and the introduction of civil education and education in schools that I hope, of which I hope we will not give up, but we will introduce it as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83066	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourers, colleague Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83067	I'd like to thank Madam Vice President, the esteemed attorney with an associate, colleague and colleague. Here we are discussing today a very extensive 273 - page report that really detaileds all the activities of the Ombudsman for gender equality during 2103. And the Labour Club will support the report and here will thank the Ombudsman for a truly comprehensive report from which we can read a lot of data, information not only on gender equality but really on a number of issues. 2133 items representing an increase of almost 41% compared to 2012 show only the seriousness and width of the Advocate's Office's thinking when it comes to solving all the problems encountered on the ground. And that is indeed a fine example of how and how to approach problems, and then with all the tools that are at our disposal to solve them as soon as possible, as soon as possible, to the satisfaction of all of us together. The lawyer has shown in her report that she is working with all institutions, that she is negotiating and negotiating with all institutions and finding ways in which problems should be solved and that is what I think everyone should do and not just the lawyer's office. Since the report is extremely extensive, that we have a little time I'll focus on just a few things. The report noted that the position of women on the labour market remains very unfavourable. At a low rate of work activity, the lower rate of employment of women as well as an increase in unemployment rates among highly educated women is further concerned. And as much as I'm running away from women being equal to men on the labour market all statistics and all indicators are telling the contrary. Women are more educated but are also for the same job and less paid. And that's the data we have to face. That's what's not good. We're not a rich society, we can't afford the luxury of marginalizing quality, capable and valuable individuals just because they're women's sex. It's something we have to change, change our consciousness and change that part of our rationality where we have to ask what we want, what our final results are. And when we answer that question to ourselves, we will likely stop looking at who the sex is rather than just asking a single question as to how much that individual or individual can contribute with his work, with his knowledge and his ability to be better for us all together. Regarding the increased tolerance threshold for sexual harassment in the workplace, it is obvious that employers still use the attitude of power in the labour market. Employers also abuse the Institute of Labour for a certain period of time so that there are cases of women who have been working for even 10 years on a specific and even the basis of the Treaty of Action which makes it very difficult for them to resolve an entire series of existential issues. We'll almost have here in the labour law debate, let's pay a little attention to that, because definitely working on a certain disturbance is a lot in society. The second topic I want to devote myself to is domestic violence. As for, here, and we heard today that the growing number of women reported as a bully, and we have to ask the question of what it is, whether women have regained consciousness, whether women have become physically stronger, so I can deal with some kind of bully or whether it's a third question. The question is that when police interventions in domestic violence, police officers still don't recognize who the bully is, and then we report one and the other, which makes it very difficult to proceed with any further proceedings. It's something that we have to solve here, not just because there's less of a violent woman than to satisfy justice. In order for us to do so, we definitely need a much greater education of individuals in the system who at some point need to intervene and we need to educate everyone to recognize domestic violence. Police have made an extremely big step on this issue, but where we still have major problems are welfare centres. We all agree with that, even the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth says that they are undercapacitated, that experts in the centres are undereducated, and I would add that we may have allowed these experts at social care centres to have a large amount of work that they have more and more and more each day simply don't have enough power to recognize when it comes to violence, who is the victim and who is the perpetrator. We need to seriously consider this, and we need to train these people to solve these problems because not solving such problems definitely destroys the whole other system. The next thing I want to focus on is the participation of women in political power. When we passed the Law on Gender Equality, then we all swore by this law that we would strive to have equal representation of women and men, but we all know that it is written there and it is said that the quota of 40% of women's representation will be respected in the third election cycle. So for nine years we've been talking about how we want to have 40% of women in politics, but we haven't done anything to really and what just happens to confirm that we are extremely good, capable, quality when we need to pass nice and pleasant laws, sign resolutions and conventions on equality, but we are extremely slow and ineffective when these same laws need to be applied in practice. It's something that's bad and it's something that's just saying that we're not seriously thinking about that 40% quota, but that here's what we're all hoping isn't going to happen. The lawyer spoke about indicators and representation at local levels in local self-government units, and no matter how many years we have the Gender Equality Act, we can say that if we look at statistics we haven't really moved away from the beginning. Someone's gonna say that women don't want to be participated, and then I ask if anyone asked them at all. There are many factors that affect whether a woman can or cannot deal with politics, but the fundamental problem is that we do not live on equality. If, as in the case of the employment of women in the labour market, we were trying to gain quality then we would also achieve that effect that we should not talk about quotas and then we would come up with the thesis of our colleague who said that we must all be equal before the law. Unfortunately we haven't, we haven't yet. Therefore, it is also necessary for the Advocate's Office and the Committee on Gender Equality and the Government's Office for Gender Equality and all those institutions that may, with their work, point out the irregularities that are taking place, that they may point to the threat of individual groups, in this case women, and that this, as well as the Office for Gender Equality, is working very successfully and well. We also heard from our colleague today that a committee on the protection of men needs to be formed. The D.A.'s office is also dealing with women and men's problems with gender equality, but it is another issue that we can analyse, but I think it is unnecessary. Women pose no threat to men if we read statistics and claim that, given all the laws we have, and primarily to equality in front of legal regulations, women are at risk in many segments. That should be spoken out loud and clear, for one single reason, and we're all equally valuable, we're all equally important, no matter what sex we were. In the back, I'll look back at the media. Yes, media often convey especially domestic violence in a strange way. We have a situation where the media write down the victim's name and photograph the victim, but they don't write about the unsub. So we continue to stegmatize the victim as someone who has done something very bad in our society because he has suffered violence, but we don't mention a bully anywhere because God forbid someone to read a violent name and talk about it. The media continues to insist on campaigning that is not good, which encourages continued marginalisation of women continue to destroy all struggles regarding gender equality in terms of being equal. We're still witnessing the media we're talking about Barbies today, but we're not talking, we're nowhere to be found, Ken. And that's on the trail of this. You need to build a Men's Protection Committee, because those Kens have got to get somewhere. And it must finally begin to write about them, and they must finally begin to be mentioned. So we have a lot of work to do and it's not enough to just declare and in principle say that we want to and live an equality as long as we don't show it in every situation and on every example. I'll only use the end for statistical reports. We are still not showing all the statistics on gender which is not good, because as long as we adopt such a practice we will constantly fight for women's equality in our society only declared. However, the fact is that if you take statistical reports, you take financial reports in only one county and you take the number of legal entities of women and men. You come up with very nice results where it is evident that women in most cases earn profits in their companies and their crafts, that women less report pre-profit deals, that women pay more regular taxes than the owners of companies where men are in power. These are indicators we need to think about and deal with. If we came to the data with how many percent of women participate in the GDP of the Republic of Croatia then we would be much more transparent and then we would not need quotas 20, 30, or 40% but would have indicators that would clearly talk about how many women are capable and how many women they can and know. As long as there are no such indicators we will remain on the reports, we will remain on the analyses and continue to fight for the same. But obviously it is a big battle with the windmills. I thank the D.A. once again for this exhaustive, good, quality report and I hope that all these recommendations you wrote in the report will be taken seriously and will begin to apply them in order to read your report much, much more optimistic next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83068	Thank you. Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83069	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished representative of Tyrelli. I really agree with your exposure to both your activity and as members of the Committee on Gender Equality. I'll start with the media. You said well, perhaps speaking to Mr. Grubisic about the protection of men in violence. Unfortunately, the news in the media is when a woman commits violence. But it's recorded and we'll see in some police reports and state's attorneys that 80% of registered thugs are men again. What concerns me is the phenomenon and ignorance of the problem of violence in relationships between young people. One study was done between the ages of 16 and 19. So young people who are girls and young people who are in a relationship. It has been shown that half of them do not view physical violence as violence at all, and the other half are violent themselves. And I think you said it well, but also in the debate before it all goes from family to family. But unfortunately, very much is going under the influence of the media, politics, various other influences that unfortunately our young people today cannot resist. Because it seems to me that some values simply wanted to be completely trampled out that there is no respect and that today when we talk about gender equality, it is clear to me that gender equality is equality between women and men and everyone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83070	Thank you very much. Nancy Tyrelli, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83071	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here comes fellow twilight, you have the right to, uh, everything goes from family to family. However, the fact is that we have more and more divorces, that we have more and more unemployed in the family, resulting in an increase in domestic violence. And that is the lifestyle of those young people who see behavior in their own families. This behavior is considered normal and they continue to manifest it as something that is not bad, but something that is quite acceptable in society. This requires a change of curricula in schools, a requirement to talk about gender equality as much as possible in schools as possible from the earliest age. Because it is obvious that parents in the fight for their personal existence remember to tell their own children about gender equality at the latest and to feel the need at all to be a topic that may need to be updated more frequently in the family. But I argue that the pattern of parent behavior is often also a pattern of child behavior and that we should all contribute very much together to this pattern, as well as these moral values that you are talking about, return to society because it is obvious that we have lost them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83072	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83073	Your Honor, Madam President. Comrade Tyrelli, you have wondered why the increase in violence, especially on the female side, and in general the increase in violence? But for this, I'd like one of my views, and I need all these attorneys and attorneys to be abolished, and I need to leave only the attorney general or the attorney attorney attorney of the staff, and let it be more for the children, as a special population, everything else is an excess of the state administration that neither America can stand. I need a state administration if Croatia is to survive economically by at least 25% reduce both within that and what I said earlier. But fellow Tyrells, if we gave up our faith, and we give up our faith in public, if we gave up in the Croatian nation, and we give up publicly, if we gave up the worldview, and we give it up publicly, if we enjoy almost masochistically enjoying giving up our roots not only in Croatia but also in Europe, I mean Christianity, etc., what is left? Hedonism, materialism, consumer consumer consumer consumerism and total relativism have remained, and violence is a fundamental tool for achieving these goals. And now the state as a fig leaf or as paying for a guilty conscience creates some let's call the defense attorney committee like they're going to solve anything. Who are they going to defend? Violence is seen every day more and more. But what I'm not impressed with is your performance, and about 40% is the women's quota in politics. Politics is a tough mining business. Women won't go into politics because it's hard because they can't be home because they can't be with children because they have to abandon the family. And mature democracy, for example, America. where you can't compliment a woman because you're wrong, so many women are protected, they're not in politics 40%.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83074	Thank you, dear colleague. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83075	Excuse me one more sentence of importance. I'm a dermatologist, this is important, please allow me to, at the Split hospital when reporting for specialization 110, 60 report to dermatology, I'm the head of this department and no one, very few women in surgery. And let's face it, once in a while, that politics is a hard job and that's an objective circumstance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83076	A colleague of Marasovic, and this is violence, when I interrupt you three times and say time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83077	Well, I asked you to.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83078	Every co-worker interrupts the debate unlike you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83079	I asked nicely and I wasn't violent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83080	Replication response, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83081	Thank you, Vice President. Well, colleague Marasovic, your sentence of women won't go into politics because it's hard for them, they have a family and they have children. I would now ask you if we could discuss whether these women started in the spirit of the world. I guess they have a father. What does it mean that they find it difficult to get into politics because they have children and families at home? Well, I guess there's a man with kids and a family, too. He's got a husband. That's no excuse for you to say that women won't go into politics because it's hard for them. I claim that women in politics are much easier than men to you, if we're going to fight like that now. But it bothers me when you say that women can't do something and somewhere because they have a family at home and they have children at home. I'm asking a very simple question whether this family and these children have a man? And the answer is always yes, there is. It is only a question of how difficult it is for a man and how much he can take care of that family and those children in relation to what a woman can do and do in politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83082	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83083	Thank you very much. Comrade Tyrell, you spoke earlier about the Law on Gender Equality as one of those laws that we could say in many parts of that law that, especially in implementation, a dead letter on paper. I agree with you. So here's the little reaction about politics being a hard job, so women don't participate and they don't need to, but they should be at home shows that we're a country of absurdity. I will mention another example to you, and it is also important in the context of this debate, the Law on Discussion of Discrimination. Therefore, the Law on Discussing Discrimination of Discrimination was a measure for us to open a chapter in EU entry negotiations. If the 2008 law had not been passed today, we would not have been a member of the EU because it was a criterion. The law was passed almost by consensus. One MP was, at the time of the ruling coalition, against that law and today she is a representative in the European Parliament and has just been elected as a member of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality. I don't think a bigger and better comment should be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83084	Replication response, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83085	Thank you, Vice President. Yes, the facts are, and I have noted that we sign and pass laws, but it is always the same and the same question as why we bring them. It turns out that we have passed the Law on Gender Equality precisely because without the Law on Discrimination we could not enter the EU. And it's showing up now. So, we are still not living as a society, and no matter how much we advocate that equality, it simply does not exist. And it's not good to make laws just because someone's asking us to. As long as we make laws because we have to, not because we don't want to carry out these same laws in action because we passed them and the moment we brought them in, we made a commitment and we forgot about what we wrote in that law. And this is reflected not only in this Law on Gender Equality but is reflected in many other laws that we had to pass by some force of law because one of us asked for it, not because we felt that as a society we needed and that we needed them as a society at that time. And that's what I warned here that we have to change because otherwise there's no point and there's no need to discuss whether we've moved away from the beginning because we're never going to move away from the beginning unless we really want to, and if we're not showing it at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83086	And Domagoj Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83087	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Tyrelli, I mean, you touched a good question in your debate when you talked about media and sensitizing the public, but that's unfortunately the topic we talk about every time we talk about any law firm, as well as the Attorney General's Office on Gender Equality. So, we are witnessing that media often filter news that they want to share, that news about the attorneys and what the attorneys are doing, in this case, the lawyer for gender equality is often not the news that they estimate is attractive enough to be in some prime time if citizens could see it. So sensitizing the public is very important, the media is very important and very influential. I agree with you that education, so education is the other element but the media are also very important and we will still have to work on it because obviously it is something, a process that is going on, so it will not end up even with this debate, and as I say all the attorneys face the same problems because lawyers often have presses, or press statements or press releases that go completely unaccompanied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83088	Nanasi Tyrelli, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83089	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Hajdukovic, we agree that we should all agree, but now we come to one contradiction. We agree that the media doesn't transmit everything that's been done. On the other hand, in this report we also read about the education of journalists, about the education of all those who participate in the media in a way that is precisely to create this kind of policy, let's call it the media. Let us make these people aware of the importance of equality in our society. And we're going back to that beginning, from the family. So unless a journalist in the family has gained some sensitivity to equality, he will hardly have it as a journalist, and he will have it if someone doesn't point out that they are wrong, that it should be warned, that and that, because that brings a better society. But now we come to contradiction with ourselves because here's what we hear we want to abolish all these defenses, because we don't need these defenses. Then what are we going to do about gender equality school, higher school, college school, what do we have to do to educate these people and all of us together? We don't just educate the media. You're doing your own research on how much work you're doing here. You need to educate the police, you need to educate the judiciary, you need to educate the media, you need to educate healthcare professionals. So, the fact is that society needs to go to some kind of lifelong education on equality, and if we want to abolish the defense offices, then I'm asking myself who's going to educate us?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83090	On behalf of the SDP representative club, counterpart Melita Mulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83091	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected lawyers for gender equality, colleagues and colleagues, we do not have the Law on Gender Equality 9 but 11 years. The law, a colleague said, was adopted with one missing vote, or consensus in 2008 because he had not had an organic majority for the first time. But we're not just talking about a law we don't want to apply, so we're not going to apply a little bit here, we're talking about the fundamental values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia, and that's gender equality. As many as there are, or are not in Croatian society, I think that every page of this report has a clear witness. As it is said, there are 273 pages and it is actually devastating for me and I think it is devastating for society to hear that there are still ideas to abolish the special defences because the report also says that women are the only majority in the Croatian society who are actually a minority and that we are still as a whole far away from parity and from real equality in Croatian society. This year, in fact, the office itself, i.e. the Ombudsman's institution for gender equality, marks 10 years of work. And I think we can agree that over the past 10 years, she has really ensured high public visibility and built a professional reputation. The number of cases the lawyer deals with has increased by 41% last year and 1600 cases have been initiated by the Ombudsman herself. So she deals with 2133 items and only last year. The number of activities covered by this office are, therefore, from the implementation of anti-discrimination proceedings under complaints from citizens and citizens, interference in court disputes, participation in legislative initiatives of different analyses and research from labour market and services, analysis of media and educational content to public awareness campaigns and the implementation of education at several levels. The D.A.'s office really did a great job, and we congratulate her on that. Of course aware of all and personnel, and financial constraints, and when we discussed this report on the parent board, all the political clubs unanimously supported it. I expect that this will be the end of the day, but I think that all of us here individually and all the clubs really need to be concerned about the situation that is in the report and for him is not solely responsible for the state or politics, but indeed all the public life stakeholders. So, from the media, scientific community, family to individual responsibility. Because the report, I've already said, really shows that women are the only majority that is minority, and in the political, economic sense of the labour market and in the media. And when you look at those complaints that came to the attorney's office, they refer to women in 70J5 cases, and in 77% of cases, discrimination is gender. Speaking of the labour market, men are nominally dominated in the Croatian labour market. The low rate of work activities and specific trends within the movement so low points to the devastating impact of gender, and gender-related prejudices and stereotypes on the free choice and real possibility of women participating equally with men on the Croatian labour market. Secondly, at a low rate of work activity because more than 60% of women are completely excluded from the labour market. So he's neither active, he's got a job, he's not self-employed, he's not actively looking for a job. It is an even lower rate of female employment, which is being warned about their economic dependence and most often about their male partners. If they have that job, women within all educational groups are the first to lose their jobs. And speaking of education, 60% of those who leave higher schools in the Republic are women, and if we are aware of the fact that among those who lose their jobs are also the most highly educated women and that among unemployed women there is an increasing share of highly educated women, then these are particularly devastating data. If you're a woman for over 50 years, you're out of the labour market, your chance to join the labour market is almost minimal. Some have talked about pay equality, you in Croatia if you are a woman, you work at least a month longer than a man precisely because of the pay gap. When you retire, then three months you actually have fewer pensions than your male colleagues. It's not even a fam, it's not a myth, it's the figures of the State Statistics Institute, so the figures that we have according to all the other data and that are very classy from the attorney's report. What's the reason for that? This is due to vertical and horizontal segregation in the labour market. This means that in certain professions a woman is represented and in some sub-represented. Where do women usually work? They work in this so-called. So assistive activities, work in health care, work in education and work in financial activities. And watch out now, where they work, there are gross wages higher than the Croatian average. Do women profit from that? Not because he's there... paying exactly the smallest. I think we should all worry about that, in fact, the Croatian market that benefits from women's work, and if we can move forward when it comes to an economy with 60% of women who are completely out of the labour market, I don't think so. All global, global research shows that without the full activation of human resources, women's resources have no progress in any society, there is no full potential. When it comes to women even on the labour market, they find it very difficult to reconcile family and professional life. That's what some other data is about, which is that only between 3 and 4% of men, parents, fathers go on parental leave. When it comes to domestic violence, 73% of victims of crime with the elements of violence committed among close persons are women, and in the offence of women account for 64% of people damaged by violent behavior. If you are women in rural areas, if you are women members of a national minority then the risk of multiple discrimination is actually much greater, especially if you are a woman with disabilities. All of this has a special impact on the patriarchal society and sex stereotypes, difficulty in employment in certain areas, and a low degree of education, i.e. in the case of women with disabilities, social isolation and neglect. When you look at statistics as well, a person with disabilities, so we have 12% in Croatian society, when you look at the percentage of women and the proportion of educated women among women with disabilities, then he is equally significantly smaller. We all mentioned the media today and, of course, that everything I said contributes significantly to the media and the education system. The D.A.'s office has done an analysis of the textbooks of nature and society and nature and biology. Women occupy only a quarter of the employees shown in photographs, illustrations in textbooks. When you mention professions, in 90% of the cases, they're male. What kind of picture is this of our kids in elementary school? So how, of course, things are then perceived, so from the education system to the position on the labour market to retirement. Media, HT, public service in the analyzed emissions, in recorded contributions, in 71% of cases are men, and women as guests, as experts for a specific area, are called to the studio to discuss something reasoned. Sensationalism in texts, titles, portals, trigialisation, the display of partner violence as an uncontrolled act of love, the display of rape as a debauched entertainment with the sound of an incident, all leading to individual and collective indifference and the fear of being raped for fear of condemnation and feelings of shame. There are many areas where it is visible how discriminated women are, the only positive shifts I am actually surprised to say this at this time is political participation because we are constantly saying that we have reached the glass ceiling of 25%, but when I say political participation I mean the reference year because it included elections for the European Parliament. And what happened then, then we almost reached this legal provision of 40% of the sub-represented sex on the candidate lists, they were even almost even, but what a phenomenon we have. It is a phenomenon that is not only present in Croatian society but also in European and global, so power, political power from citizens, is more perceived as an abstract phenomenon, which is further away from citizens than it is from women. Because when you look at the number of commissioners, we have only 7% of the chiefs here in Croatian society, so these are the ones who solve citizens and citizens' issues. The only area in which men may be discriminated against, there is doubt, but no evidence, is the parental care area after divorce, and that when the decisions or suggestions of the welfare centres are seen, but also judicial judgments because depending on the figures, it is about 80% of the cases that children are given to mothers. Everything I said actually shows that I think it illustrates that we are in Croatian society away from equality, so from what belongs to us as individuals and individuals, and I think it's really time to start a mental set and apply certain recommendations, not tomorrow, but yesterday. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83092	Thank you. Vice President Zeljko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83093	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, distinguished fellow Mulic finds it hard to agree with practically everything you said, but it offered me one of your first or second sentences where you said it wasn't about us discussing whether a law applies or not, but rather about talking about some fundamental constitutional law, determination, etc. And I totally agree with that. However, the question of whether or not a law applies is very important, I simply took it as an incentive to visit us all together, because we are making laws with the idea at least expect everyone to apply and apply them as we do. However, we are aware that this is not so, and we are aware that even here, something that is illegal is likely to be adopted today, again I am going back to the story of two days ago where the review report clearly stated that the government has acted illegally throughout a series of procedures, and yet this report will probably be adopted today and such practice is not good, that we ourselves who pass the laws consciously accept that others are breaking those laws. That's what moved me, of course, with everything else you said I agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83094	The reply to the replica Melita Mulic, but turn the replica not to a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83095	Excuse me. Answer to Vice President Reiner. Well, actually, I absolutely agree with you when it comes to law enforcement, only it was kind of a reference to exposure before me to a colleague named Tyrell who had who said let's not make laws if we don't apply them. So this is about organic law and constitutional value, and in this sense I just wanted to make sure that it's not just a law under which, although every law of course in the Croatian legal order must be respected especially if we adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83096	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83097	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, I am pleased that in your report in reality, that is, in your speech, you have mentioned women and the problem of elderly women, so women who have been over 50 years. I personally belong to that group, and I think you've identified the problem well. Women in those years are considered no longer workable by my colleague's example are neither sooner or more likely to do anything especially to deal with politics if he considers politics exclusively reserved for him and for such men, no matter what I say later. But this is what he's trying to tell you, there's a lot of impact really on the media and really what I've been saying to the worldview. A woman must remain forever young, she must be constantly young, she must not be old, she must not be gray, she must not have wrinkles, she must climb in the short term on Sljeme, she must do everything. A woman is not allowed to show her age, but with her age she matures intellectually and I think that some years when a woman can give the most of herself not only to her family but also to society and the work she works on. I personally know my friends who have employees in the business over 50 have over 55 years, these and those companies that lead or do not fail because they absolutely work on several fronts, they care very much for their employees to get paid in time, take care of their families, not count 50 but times 4 and that is indeed the maturity of women should be respected. Thank you for mentioning that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83098	Thank you very much, colleague. Melita Mulic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83099	Thank you, Vice President. Yes, my colleague Sumrak, in fact, I am pleased that you have once again highlighted the problem of female employment for over 50 years because you know this problem does not affect men in Croatian society. And when it comes to politics other than diplomacy, this is the only privileged profession in which age is not a limiting factor. So you can run at 70 and 90. And that we have the right and it's good to underline it on the one hand and on the other hand that we're dealing with politics and not always be beautiful, smart, but be the best we can be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83100	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83101	... My colleague Mulic, you've caught up with the statistics. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Well, you can prove by statistics that the moon is a star, and it's not a planet. So if you know everything, and I'm asking you to answer me in a replica of how many women are in the state sector. Well, it's kind of a job that can control the state's brains or the state's decision. In 270 thousand how many women are there, answer me now in response to the replica? And I know I won't tell you. That's the first thing. Another thing, then why aren't there one man, one woman if we're for gender equality? Answer me that. What are you talking about? Don't tell me. I was saying, this is where I'm exposed to my mobbing and Mrs. Tyrelli and Mrs. Kosor and my missus from HDZ because they said one thing and another that I didn't say. Mrs. Kosor says, for example. I said they don't need women in politics. ... He says that I said this and that, that I shouldn't, I didn't say anything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I tried only to explain, theoretically, why women go less into politics. And I didn't say what they told me I was, but I don't blame them. The law needs to be above all else. As the director of the Split hospital of four co-workers, three were women. Because they're more valuable, because they're more precise, because they're more reliable because 3.0 is for women, 3.0 and men can have 2.7 and 3.6 as much as you want. But tell me about it, don't spin my stats to prove something. The state is expensive, all you let go of me with told committees, equalitys, etc. are also at the level of county and cities. Croatia is too expensive a country, neither can America. The various associations of 3 billion plus all these lawyers, we spend, will be no more for wages than for us in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83102	Thank you very much. And maybe one of your three associates would have been good if one had been the principal. The answer to the line of Melita Mulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83103	I'll give you the stats again. So about 45% of women are employed in the state and public service only where they need to be cleaners, where they have to do auxiliary jobs, where they have to do middle management jobs there are women, and where they need to be in management positions there are men. Why is there a woman sitting there, believe me in Croatian society has no interest in such a question, it is always like some sort of alleged soft question that is not important and that is marginalized. And every time the D.A.'s office calls, there's only a few men who don't even have the basic knowledge and competence for the job. And if you are not understood by colleagues on this side, why do you expect me to understand you, or why should you expect to be understood by Croatian citizens?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83104	And Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83105	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Mulic, you mentioned, of course, the participation of women in politics. But to be absolutely just, one more piece of information that is based on research should be said, because in Croatia, the woman seems to be about 52% already. However, when you take a look at the information on this by the Attorney General's report, it is clear that women in principle and generally prefer to vote for men. So, not for women, but for men. In this report, on average, the candidate gets an average of 1473.67 votes and a candidate of 2663.31 votes. So, rather women still vote for men in politics, considering it's mostly men's work. That's how it's general, but it's good for the parties, too. So if there's a woman who's got anti-candidate men, then in principle, a man will win.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83106	Melita Mulic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83107	Croatian society is a patriarchal society and unfortunately politics, as a fellow mining business said, is still perceived as a predominant male occupation. Only I still think, and I'm sure Croatian voters think it's a much more important system of values that the candidate advocates than the fact that he's a woman or a man. So I will always prefer to vote for a male candidate if he advocates a particular value system.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83108	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83109	Thank you, esteemed vice president, esteemed attorney with a co-worker, co-worker and co-worker. The 2013 report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality was comprehensive and detailed in all the activities of the Ombudsman in the past year and it can be concluded that she was very active in resolving complaints, issues of dispute, she made proposals, recommendations and warnings to improve legislation on gender equality. The D.A. conducted nine independent studies. We must not forget that there are only nine employees, or from two months ago another one, ten employees. We heard that during 2013, there were a total of 2133 cases, representing an increase of more than 40% compared to the previous year. What is even more important is that the Ombudsman is not only waiting and solving cases received by complaints from citizens or citizens, but has opened 1687 cases on its own in order to monitor the implementation of the Law on Gender Equality, which is 60% more than in earlier years. The lawyer addressed 168 written proposals, 227 warnings, 503 recommendations, initiated the launch of infringements and gave an initiative to amend three laws. We know that education is the most important in all segments, so it pays great attention to education when it comes to promoting gender equality in the field of labour, education, family violence, media, political participation, which is a very extensive and demanding job. The lawyer for gender equality also visited local communities, co-operated with the committees on gender equality from local level as well as with NGOs and was present at local level. However, if we want to continue with quality work and new research to be done, many items are being solved and areas from urban centres to islands and villages need to be provided with additional funding. It is noteworthy that other defense attorney offices from the state budget are also receiving nearly 9 million kuna. The Advocate General for Gender Equality has only 2.5 million at his disposal and the last rebalancing rate has been reduced. And an increase in the number of cases of 40% is evidence that the trend of women's positions has continued. The unemployment rate has increased even among highly educated women compared to men, and we know that highly educated people are more resistant to traditional prejudice and stereotypes. Women first remain out of work within all educational groups even though it is well known and we have heard today in discussions and replicas that women are more loyal, pedantic and responsible workers. More than 60 working women in the Republic of Croatia are completely out of the labour market and are not actively engaged in the labour market, which means that this figure would significantly increase the number of unemployed. The majority of complaints refer to sexual discrimination, and the largest number is women. It is therefore necessary in the budget for the following year to provide significantly more resources so that the Office of the Ombudsman for Gender Equality can further team up, solve and initiate the resolution of these problems. And on this occasion, I would like to stress that all reports and audits, which I said in the debate on the revision of the state budget, are not their own purpose. It is the debate in this House on the work of certain institutions that should warn us and show us in which direction to go. The conclusions to be drawn in the next period should be made to make this segment of life and work more efficient. So I suggest that the defense attorney's recommendations be considered as soon as possible and make a commitment, for example. within 6 months each institution to which it relates shall be considered to be taken. The conclusions and recommendations of no interest are pointless to consider or remove shortcomings. This occasion should point out that some new laws are, for example, new laws. The penal code was a step backwards and brought a number of new cases, cases, problems that come to the prosecutor's rescue. Since 1 January 2013, domestic bullying has no longer been prescribed as a special offence, so beyond the reach of the Penal Code it remains a mental and economic violence in the family. The funds have been reduced to psychosocial treatment providers, leading to a reduction in the number of professional institutions and individuals dealing with the same treatment which is not good. Just as it is not good to amend the Institute of Free Legal Assistance, which remains an unresolved issue of exercising the right to free legal assistance to victims of domestic violence in a criminal and criminal procedure for domestic violence. Family centers were also abolished, and it was a step back. It is now also an opportunity to warn the media in their own way about domestic violence and to bring violence into the context of love that has gone wrong. For example. out of love and jealousy, there was a death and recommendations and warnings were addressed to the media from the prosecutor for gender equality. Absurds continue to occur, so victims who are constantly sexually harassed and discriminated must agree to move to another workplace that does not correspond to their own professional preparation in another city, while the perpetrator remains to work where he worked before. Studies have shown that as many as 55% of women are fired because they are pregnant. It is also more difficult for women to keep their jobs or to return to the labour market after leaving for example. maternity leave. Although the law provides for the use of maternity leave and fathers, only 3% of dads decide to do so, and you are mostly on leave for the child, and virtually again almost all the jobs around the child are waiting for Mom after a day's work. The fact is that mothers play a leading role in education, especially preschool children. Since childcare services are not sufficiently developed as a problem for employed parents, especially mothers who are forced to find a balance between family and work obligations, often a mother should choose to stay at work or leave the labour market. The conditions of availability of public services, mangers, kindergartens, full-time schools in large cities or villages are also different. It should therefore be more helpful for the state and society as a whole. It is not the same financial opportunity that can ensure good care for children in a local self-government unit whose budget is a million or even less kuna or the city of Zagreb. The burden of the role of a woman in the family and the heavy balance on the labour market bear witness not only to the care of children but also to the elderly. An analysis by the lawyer for gender equality entitled "Who cares about old and socially excluded persons in Croatian society" has shown that in our society the main burden of caring for older, powerless, sick and dying people is mainly women. It is interesting that women are more and more educated in such occupations, although most users are institutions, shelters, hospices, homes for older and powerless are just men. The HDZ Club warns that, unfortunately, every day in the Republic of Croatia, it is becoming increasingly difficult for all citizens, both for workers and young people with developmental difficulties and for doctors and teachers, but let us not let the especially women we see through this report carry the main burden of society get worse every day. Let's not fly over recommendations and do nothing. Perhaps we, our sister, daughter, or mother feel that problem on their skin, and we could have prevented it. Let's not change the laws up there.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83110	Vice President Zeljko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83111	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, dear colleague Juričev Martinchev, you've made a very good point, especially in the end of this big problem. The problem, of course, is that in Croatia today, everyone has a hard time living and living every day is getting harder. However, the fact is that although women are on average more educated, the data suggests that between the ages of 25 and 34 of their completed colleges there are 35% of women and just slightly more than 20% of men. Nevertheless, women, especially highly educated women, unfortunately have an average 18% lower salary than men. It's something that we all have to worry about together, because that means not only those women who have managed to get a job, and it's very difficult to get less for equally valuable work. And that's what I think the whole society has to do to make this situation change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83112	Branka Juričev-Martinchev, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83113	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Vice President, that's true. Although highly educated women and men are more resistant to traditional prejudices and stereotypes, however, when a decision is made on who should be out of work in a particular job is somehow an esteemed opinion better to be a woman. A man is a foster parent of a family, and a woman will find work in a house between her children and household chores. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83114	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83115	You fully agree with your analysis which is almost identical, perhaps further highlighted by our colleague, Melita Mulić, in the definition of the status of women in society. And the truth is, you put the accent on the recommendation that the situation changes. Now I'm gonna put an accent on it. We often wait for some days to mark, women's day and others, a day to fight violence against women. These are the opportunities to discuss the status of women in the Croatian Parliament, especially its economic power, as well as the whole series of amendments to the law where all women belong regardless of which political group they belong, so they agree that the hidden forms of discrimination are removed in order for women to get the same position in society in everyday life. Because how men and women live in almost all families today prevents women from public politics. I keep pointing that out, and I'm going to point it out again. The solution to all these problems that you have identified and which is undeniable and which nobody and we all agree on when we talk about it, even men and when it is necessary to change it then no. Starting to remember a whole series of laws, laws especially regarding women's bodies. How predominant these men were right now, especially back a few years ago, who just wanted the body to be a woman's polygon for the manifestation of political power. And what is a woman's biology, rather than being her advantage, is often in a daily life where she cares about family and wife as to God's some natural right and duty to a woman which is absolutely incorrect. Here I am calling and using this replica, I believe you will agree that through all the laws that we are primarily working on the economic empowerment of women and simply giving, we propose such laws and support for such laws that will equalise the position of men and women in private life.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83116	Replication response, Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83117	Well, colleagues Ingrid, I agree with you, but thanks to your support, your support and your colleagues and colleagues from your club have been passed a new Penal Code which has brought us back step by step thanks to your votes, the family centres have been abolished, the funds have been reduced to the implementation of psychosocial treatments, the resources of the lawyers for gender equality have been reduced. So I ask you when these laws are passed that you give your voice and your contribution to change in favour of gender equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83118	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83119	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Juričev, I am very proud of you when you had your exposure today on behalf of our club because you have just broken one stereotype, one belief that the fight for gender equality and the fight against violence has been reserved exclusively for left-wing colleagues. We showed, no problems are the same, and we figured them out the same way. In the same way we are fighting, and you have proven your third term as a successful mayor of one, so I would say one tourist town that is not very small, you are the mother of three children and here is a successful politician who clearly and reasonedally speaks about problems. Today these problems are related to gender equality. The other day there was a budget, etc. It only speaks of you as a woman, and it can be a role model for other women that can be successful both mothers and wives and successful entrepreneurs, here is the mayor, but also successful and very high-quality politicians. I'm sorry I had to do this, I didn't have to, I felt the need to tell you this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83120	Branka Juričev-Martinchev, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83121	Well, here's my colleague, thank you. I'm a little embarrassed, but I think that all women together no matter where we come from and on which side we have to fight for all those who have no ability to say anything and change something in women's lives, and there's hardly a failed woman. And that woman who's in the country, who deals in agriculture, and the one who's in a higher position, only her work might be more prominent in the media, so more is said, but there's hardly a woman who doesn't give a maximum in all fields. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83122	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83123	Thank you, Vice President. Well, you told your colleague Branka in your debate that women get fired when they're pregnant. So it's maybe a bit of a clumsy formulation, women don't get fired, but they don't have an extension of the labor contract because it's the fact that 95% of the contract is now being concluded for a certain time. So it's really amazing how often women are honored not to give birth enough, so they don't decide for children, and then when they decide to stay pregnant and have a baby, then the first thing that happens to them is not to extend their labor contract. And I really think that right now and not just at the moment, especially in the long term, it is not the biggest problem of the Croatian state deficit, or deficit in the state budget, but it is a deficit of newborns. So in a very short time, we'll see how big a problem that is.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83124	Replication response, Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83125	Thank you very much. It is true that contracts are mostly signed for a certain time with a male colleague having a second, still getting the opportunity to extend, i.e. to sign another such contract, and when it is known that a woman, a girl, has become pregnant, there is no longer the possibility to sign another such contract. I hope that all of us together can change something in women's lives, not just for women's sake, but just for our future and for our children's sake, because then we'll have fewer objections about how much more mortality we have than Natalie and what's waiting for us tomorrow when we retire, who's going to work, who's going to work, how much will they be able to do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83126	Sonja König, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83127	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of our Parliament. Dear colleagues, you mentioned the use of parental leave, or their lack of use by your father. Well, perhaps we should, as some European countries prescribe, prescribe for a near or future period that both father and mother use parental leave in the same period of time. It turned out to be good for both father and mother as well as for their child or children. In this way, we would also partially prevent those discriminatory questions that still appear during the job interview, which is that women are wondering if you're going to have a baby? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83128	Branka Juričev-Martinchev, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83129	Thank you very much. Well, here we are in Croatia, unfortunately only 3% of our fathers take maternity leave and it's mostly about cases where mom makes better money or if mom's busy, and Dad's not busy, but what's the point of mom having to do it again after a certain day's work and all the housework, and Dad actually spent his time as usual? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83130	On behalf of the Club of Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HGS colleague Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83131	Thank you, well-respected Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Madam Advocate with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. I kind of feel like it's pretty much everything's said, but here's something else to add. I would not like this debate to end in the end and that those who follow us have the impression that this debate is only about women's equality and that this is only about women's situation in Croatian society because the Attorney's Office is indeed good and good at balance in this regard, above all, implementing the Law on Gender Equality, the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, but of course, the implementation of the fundamental values of the Republic of Croatia's Constitution which says that we are all equal and that of course does not make a difference in any way, and then, of course, not according to sex. However, so far in today's debate, women are mostly speaking on behalf of clubs, and here is the honour of men to be saved by a colleague of the Czech Republic who will speak on behalf of the HDSSB club. So it wouldn't be good to get the impression, I'm sure men are equally advocates, interested in this report. In the report, of course, unfortunately nothing new. In this respect, of course, I would not like to be misunderstood, the report is perfectly written, it is perfectly structured, it brings a number of valuable data that we will probably use to believe in other discussions on other laws, other issues and other issues of Croatian society. But what is drawn as a conclusion cannot unfortunately be that, in terms of gender equality and equality before the law, we are making progress. In that sense, the report unfortunately, because the report speaks of data, does not support that with some specific and great optimism we look to the future especially if we take into account the fact that the number of complaints, i.e. the number of cases that the office discussed last year or considered increased by about 40%, and especially if the fact that mainly the Advocates' Office appears mainly in women, is repeated. So, and mostly women are damaged. So two-thirds of the women who turned to the office were damaged. The most discrimination was recorded last year by gender, so almost 78% and that's the data that shows that we can't be satisfied, but the data that says we're not making progress, I repeat even to stagnate but not to make progress, and I'd be judged to take into account some statements that I've spoken about today in replicas, that in some sense we're making progress. So, those peaks in respect of human rights, fundamental human rights, because today we are talking about respecting the human rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, we are not making progress and in some segments we are turning back. The most difficult area, i.e. the area in which it has the most problems in my opinion, which is widely mentioned in this report is the area of employment and work. This is the area that is most important for every citizen and every citizen because it depends on how we live. And so I appeal that when we get married in a few days, and we discuss the Labour Act here, that we remember the reports of the civil defender, or the lawyers for gender equality, and that when we consider the provisions of the Labour Act that speak and the position of women, because only women are born, only women are pregnant, so of course only women are mostly and ask what their marital status is, only women wonder if they are married and want to have children, if they already have children, whether they want to have more children or whether they are pregnant at the moment when they report to work. So, colleagues and colleagues, let us remember this debate and all positively expressed in support of the Ombudsman and her views, so let us install it in the final version of the Labour Act. Many times here is mentioned the fact that women for the same work are less paid, but because for the same work, for the same qualifications, for the same education are less paid then, of course, when they retire in a more difficult position because they have fewer pensions. And that is something that should be considered in particular when we talk about the position of women, namely gender equality, and it is a particularly worrying fact that this report says on page 4, which says that the proportion of highly educated women who are unemployed is still growing. So more and more women who are highly educated cannot find a job, and more than 60% of working women in Croatia are completely out of the labour market and are not trying to join the labour market. So this seems to me to be the most attractive data from this report in a country where 28 EU members have been in for many years. And I also believe that this fact will be taken into account when the Labour Act is passed, but also the laws, for example, of government measures, which will turn towards incentives for women entrepreneurs, incentives for women who want to work and create, and women who want to hire. In that sense, I don't think we've had much of a celebration. As far as domestic violence is concerned, the amendments to the Penal Code have already been mentioned here, which I also find not good. Violents are colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen mostly men, most of them men. So long as I've been following the debate, and I think I've really listened to everyone who spoke on behalf of the clubs, there's been no particular mention of court practice because ultimately, when it comes to serious domestic violence, such cases come to courts. And regarding the provisions of the Penal Code, for example, of rape, or marriage rape. And once we discussed the report, I mentioned a verdict, not so long ago, so the verdict based on the report of a woman who was systematically discriminated against, threatened, bullied, beaten and raped in a marriage where the judge finally ruled that she could not give valid evidence of rape in marriage because she had no witnesses and the judge ruled in favour of her husband. Therefore, when we talk about the prevention of domestic violence, that is, violence against women, we must also talk about judicial practice, court practice must not be untouchable in such debates because unfortunately, judges often have the opportunity to decide on the fate of many people who, both men and women, are in any way exposed to discrimination, but also to violence. Especially interesting is the area of this report, i.e. part of the report that discusses the risks of multiple discrimination and particularly sensitive social groups, I certainly think here about women in rural areas, women with disabilities, and we could discuss this really in the long and long term. Here I connect this report, i.e. parts of the report with the Ombudsman's report for people with disabilities because women with disabilities are multiplely discriminated against because of disability in the labour market, in job opportunities, in schooling and education opportunities, but then unfortunately and repeatedly discriminated in families, very often exposed to family violence that remains behind closed doors. And that's discrimination very little or almost never spoken of in public. Certainly women members of national minorities, but it is also interesting to show in this report that speaks of women in prostitution and so far no one has mentioned anything. I agree, Madam Attorney-General, that it would go into the amendments to our laws to punish the users of prostitution, and, as many of you will probably remember, we have heard recently and many times from a former parliamentary representative who has advocated very clearly and precisely for legalising prostitution, so in the future, who knows what awaits us. But this must not be a taboo issue, this must be a question that we will open up and open a debate that must, of course, be a political debate. About education, of course, I agree with everyone who talked about stereotypes, they are still present, stereotypes in the media, of course, in the textbooks, of course, it's not up to the end, and it's important that this part that talks about research conducted in public television shows because it's not only when we talk about HRT that public television is public TV, it's state-owned, so if we had to expect somewhere equal representation of men and women, then it's certainly on HRT, which we all pay for among other things, and I repeat, it's state-owned, so I guess there's something like the conclusions of one day we can also bring. As far as equality in the field of political participation is concerned, I have already said, it is certain that one of the reasons why there are no more women is also because women are still considered to be newcomers and are considered to be adornment of democracy and certainly that the work in politics is still participated as purely male work. We heard it today, and the women are home with a cook and possibly a viclar on their heads. So I think it's extremely important to read the recommendations and I end up with 60 lawyers for gender equality, and even more importantly, when this debate is over, everything we've read here, let's not forget both in parties and in political life and in the Parliament and in the Government, we don't go on as usual. Our club will accept the Attorney General's report on gender equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83132	But you won't blame me for a crackdown on this debate, there's a report on one portal that our colleague Marasovic had a fight with the MPs. So that went public. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83133	This, fellow Members, as often in its public appearances, which is certainly good, you warn of violence against women, of inadequate sanctioning. We also have to remember that by 2000, women didn't even know, they had no idea what was going on, especially in their families. There was no concept of domestic violence. We were then introduced, so the crime of family violence, not long after we passed the Law on protection against domestic violence and more or less we can be satisfied with the legislative framework. However, violence continues to occur, men continue to beat women and something important has not changed. Why are they doing this? Because I can still do that. And why does he do that? Let's be realistic and let's deal with the real source of the problem that stems from the economic supremacy of a man over a woman of all forms of authority of a man over a woman, almost in all societies and so on in ours. There is still male domination in industry, in the military, religion, culture, science, in all the levers of power straight and indirect we have the domination of men. Today, when it comes to it, it is still with a smile and a laugh heard about it, if it is already as politically correct as it is and none is said to be, because it is still considered to be some distant utopia. We, through, constantly speaking, through a whole series of laws which men, I will not say, will not force, but simply encourage because men only need to be provided to feel the charms and benefits of family life. That's one thing because the subordinated position just comes out of it. You're saying that women are considered to be decorations in politics, etc. Not that they're considered, but men don't want to voluntarily share power with women because they have great competition inside of them, let alone with the other half...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83134	Comrades, bring the end of the line. Thank you very much. Thank you. Jadranka Kosor, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83135	Thank you very much. I agree mostly with everything you've said. About domestic violence, of course, men beat up women with law and no law, so even before we brought and arranged the legislative framework in that sense and afterwards. Why? Because in my opinion, there is no social condemnation, no real social condemnation, and there is no reason why many people still think it's normal and that it's the right that a man belongs to regardless of his husband, he was a partner, he was a son because let's not forget about domestic violence very often, when it comes to talking about sons beating mothers, or sons beating sisters. Therefore, it is something that is considered a right that is an inheritance right and belongs to men. You mentioned economic violence, it's actually one of the scariest because a large number of women today suffer violence just because they're economically dependent, and because of the fear of the future, they can't get away from the bully, let alone report it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83136	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83137	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kosor, you spoke of domestic violence, but violence is generally important. One habitability and violence in society shows a male part of the world in an unbearable amount. Hit a child, hit a woman who's brave, don't give you courage. Let's hit it a little harder, it's easy to hit it. And that's not what we're fighting against, it's not enough. When unemployment is at stake in unemployment, all men and women are at risk, even under crisis conditions, statistics show that male unemployment has increased by 2% and female unemployment is less than 2%. So men are even more vulnerable to unemployment. But the most endangered are highly educated because the number of unemploymentes of highly educated, equal to men and women, has doubled. Women are undeniably discriminated against, women are threatened, women are economically threatened and economically dependent, it's something unbearable. So much sexism, so much illusion, so much ambiguity really disgusting. Adverts how they just show women as objects, make them all kinds of unacceptable, though commercials make stupid and men just look at beer commercials, so I don't know who might be involved in it. The truth about telecommunications commercials makes both men and women stupid and limited. And when you talked about women and elections and politics, you said it was discrimination that women lose elections because they're women. So the presidents of the mayoral county and city organisations show that they don't, they don't lose because they're women, and even when they get the opportunity to put on women's lists, then they don't take advantage of such a possibility, and there have been cases like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83138	The answer to the replica of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83139	No, I didn't say, I'm going to start with this last one, although I agree with most of your replica that women are losing because women than I was just before when you weren't here mentioning the information brought by the attorney that women in principle prefer to vote for women and that's a fact and it's a statistical data and it's a common known fact in Croatia in particular. And as for putting together a list, of course, if you're thinking about the recent practice, I've been working really hard on it, but that's another story. As for the commercials, I agree with you. For a time at a football championship, and it will probably be close to you too, so you'll probably agree there was a commercial where on the eve of the World Cup football show commercials where a man tied his wife to the toilet and put another patch over her mouth as a message that there would be peace in the house so that the football championship could be watched is best for a woman to be tied up. As far as unemployment is concerned, the data suggests that 60% of highly educated women can't find a job and that's something that's very surprising to us, and as far as men are concerned, I agree. I don't think family thugs who are registered as domestic thugs would ever, ever, ever be able to perform any kind of duty again, especially in politics. Unfortunately, even today, those who have beaten and beaten women have politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83140	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU colleague Marija Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83141	Honored Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed attorneys with co-worker, MPs and MPs. I would like to say from this, a comprehensive presentation in the prosecutor's report on gender equality shows that during the reporting period she conducted the examination procedures, the procedure for calming down with the possibility of concluding non-judicial agreements, gave a number of recommendations, warnings, proposals to political parties, conducted several independent research, analysis and lectures, hence a number of actions and a number of cases. However, the trend of increasing the case remained almost 40% compared to 2012, particularly related to gender discrimination in relation to the achievement of social security and labour rights, then to the work of the judiciary and administration and public information and the media, and mostly to the harm of women. The question arises as to how it is possible and how, after 10 years, that there were no significant steps for the Ombudsman's Office for Gender Equality. Despite all the efforts of the Ombudsman, her team and all the former attorneys, and a number of women's associations who are very much representing equal rights and advocate gender equality, I would say very agile and recognizable public and influential persons, women, both on the political scene and outside the political scene and on the part of civil society. Of course, this is not an attack on the lawyer's work, however, we express all our praise to her and her team, but I wanted to say to all the structures that are the brakes to solve the problem of achieving gender equality. And it has been noted that from year to year, the problem of unemployment and the bribery of women that all colleagues have talked about today has been repeated. Today, too, it is particularly worrying and dissatisfying the position of women especially in the field of the labour market. With more unemployment rates and the fact that women work more often than men for a certain period of time, women are also mostly strangled and underpaid jobs and are much harder to advance at work. According to indicators such as already said, men are usually and better paid for their work. This situation also stems from the fact that women are additionally burdened by their role in caring for the family, which arises precisely for these reasons for which we advocate, which is equality of obligations and division of the affairs of both sexes. I must further point out that women living in rural areas are a particularly vulnerable group that needs permanent attention, investment and supervision. Therefore, state institutions and NGOs should target their resources to help raise them I would say standard of life, living conditions, thus ensuring a way of better quality of life for them and therefore also for their families. In recent times, we are faced with a harsh violation of women's rights and obvious discrimination against women and girls on social networks, on Facebook especially. There's an increase in hate speech against women, they're ridiculed, and their photographs are unauthorized. Although after reporting Facebook or another network removes such a profile its creator opens immediately a new and way of processing and punishing the creator of such profiles has not yet been solved. Although the law here is explicit and with the possibility of high fines. Although progress in the protection of social rights is evident, it is necessary to continue to invest in higher-level jobs, women's social protection and the fight against poverty. There is a need for more positive measures that could entail the harmonisation of family and business obligations as an equal division of all family duties between a man and a woman. Support programmes for women entrepreneurs who have been implemented in some ways are insufficient to improve this problem of unequal opportunities for women and men on the market and other programmes of activities aimed at the Croatian Employment Service should be designed. No means of adequate support have been found for women who suffer sexual harassment in the labour market because they are still reluctant to talk about it and do not report it even though the protocol has been formally adopted. And a large number of cases of domestic violence continue to be reported, and it is largely not only physically but women are most often exposed to a combination of multiple forms of violence physically, mentally but also recently economically. Economic violence is still almost and still unrecognizable and in such cases women do not receive adequate support from either the community or the institution. In political action, women are still under-represented, the results of women's representation in representative and executive bodies of local, regional and regional self-government units and after local elections have been conducted. The Advocate General in the 2013 Work Report in question gives a total of 60 recommendations from economic policy measures to actively involve women in the labour market to protect victims of sexual violence, domestic violence, amending the law of systematic education to all persons involved in anti-discrimination and violence procedures, as well as raising the awareness of society that domestic violence is not just a private matter. Furthermore, strengthening support for civil society organisations involved in resolving domestic violence. Strengthen inter-resorship cooperation at national and local, especially local levels, as well as promoting and respecting the principle of gender equality as well as systematic empowerment of women in rural areas, which I have already highlighted. A number of documents, laws, strategies and protocols such as the National Gender Equality Policy for the period 2011-2015 have also been adopted, which is basic, I think the strategic document of the Republic of Croatia concerning women's discrimination and the establishment of real gender equality through the implementation of equal opportunities policy. The Ombudsman’s Office also carried out a recommendation from the Committee of Ministers of the Council of the European Member States in 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83142	My colleagues and colleagues, please. Please, my colleague may, under normal circumstances, complete the exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83143	On 22 January 2013 The Republic of Croatia also signed the Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Family Violence. And in the preamble of the same documents, violence against women has been defined as the birth conditioned violence and the means of the domination of men over women. The convention is also the first international treaty to define... unfortunately, the convention has not been ratified. We believe that this is a very important issue regarding the application of the principle of gender equality. What I must note, and of course also the remarks, is that the declared equal opportunities on the labour market in the so far adopted national gender equality policies with the aim of eliminating discrimination against women and the establishment of real gender equality bring very poor results because the Ombudsman's report shows that there is continued strong discrimination against women on the labour market. Women of pregnant women continue to be discriminated against, especially in the unfavourable situation of women in rural areas, women with disabilities and women representatives of national minorities. Birth stereotypes have not been resolved in the 10 years of the Office of Advocates, as well as the Office for Gender Equality in our society. As a club of HSU, we offer some suggestions. Therefore, although the Ombudsman’s warnings and recommendations are not binding, it is necessary to introduce mechanisms when the Ombudsman issues a warning or a recommendation to employers who discriminate to act on such a warning. Unless they do so, let us give the Ombudsman the right to publish on the website the names of such employers. The Republic of Croatia needs to rapidly ratify the Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Family Violence and introduce a body to monitor and monitor the application, speed up the process of harmonising all competent institutions with laws and legal acts in order to more effectively implement the Law on Gender Equality and, of course, to install the Law in the Election Law, and the Law on Gender Equality in the section on the application procedure and lists on which both sexes must be represented equal and at least 40%. The involvement of men in achieving gender equality is almost negligible. Shouldn't she be together? Does that mean that only a woman protects a real woman? Does only a woman have to look for this path to a society where sexual difference would become irrelevant. I must say that.....the noise in the hall....
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83144	A little attention, please, colleagues and colleagues. Go on, you fellows.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83145	I must mention, and I am very pleased that we have a bright example of the M Status Association with a programme called "A Youth Initiative with a basic goal of finding gender-equal norms, healthy lifestyles and the non-violent behaviour of young people and young people in our society", which is in cooperation with the ministry and I believe that this is a good basis for men and women together to create a society of equal opportunities for both sexes. Finally, the report should be a basis for taking affirmative actions and programmes for an effective and effective way, and all in order to address all the discrimination recorded of any kind because we must not ignore that equality between women and men's sex is one of the basic human rights and fundamental values of democratic society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83146	Thank you, too, dear colleague. But we do have a few replicas on your exposure. Honorable representative Mirela Holly, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83147	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, in your debate, you said it was possible that after 10 years of the attorney's office, we still have gender discrimination at hand. I would thus refer to you and ask how it is possible for me in the Croatian Parliament, here is a recent event, today we should vote on Dr. Romana Jerkovica's decision from the chairman of the Health Committee and Mrs. Dragice Zgrebec from the chairman of the Committee on Regional Development to come to their seats recently resolved colleagues. I have no objection to my colleagues, but I believe that the resolution would make sense that colleagues did not do their job well, but only to resolve them because male colleagues who have greater political significance were returned to the Assembly and to make room for their colleagues is the worst manifestation of sexism and discrimination based on the gender that I have had recently seen in the Croatian Parliament, and in this sense I call on colleagues and colleagues not to vote for such a shameful decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83148	Replicate reply, distinguished representative Marija Ilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83149	Dear colleague Holly, there's no reason not to believe this statement. Of course, I don't know the background, but in any case, I would agree with you to represent women, because apparently only a woman can represent women. And what I can point out at this time is that in Croatia, we foreigners of pensioners, and it is obvious that there are 50, 50% of us in the club, and that women have achieved especially in our group what we should stand for together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83150	Thank you, too. Dear colleague Dunja Spoljar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83151	I'm sorry, Mr. President, but there's been a bit of a disturbance in the Parliament. So, you've been talking about birth stereotypes, and I'd just like to join you for a little while. In a recent study, individuals of different chronological ages were asked what male, what female. Show me what it means to run like a girl, which means to throw like a girl, which means to fight like a girl or a girl. The answers were unique to young people and adults. Thus, in their answers, all were characterized by the impotence of the weaker, or female. Interesting were the answers of a young girl, or completely small children, who said to throw as a girl means the best you can, to run as a girl means the fastest you can, to fight as a girl means the best and the strongest you can. So all of us here have to wonder who they learned this form from if it's just a family, whether it's both the media and the education system. Are we colleagues and fellow politicians? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83152	Replicate reply, distinguished representative Marija Ilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83153	I thank the President of the Parliament. Well, fellow Members, I agree with you, but let's find the models, find the mods, and look for a way out of that situation where these stereotypes are being conducted. So we must systematically work from a family that educates primarily its child, kindergartens, elementary schools and, of course, all of us in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83154	Honorable representative Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, respected colleagues and you and everyone else or all the other speakers talk a lot today about how women are discriminated against, how difficult it is in women's politics, how they're not in politics. So I'll just say one in general. Here's some political options, we're all party members here. Perhaps some policy options still show another direction. well, it might well be mentioned that for the EU elections here are six EU MPs from the list of coalitions of this Centre right four women have been elected to the EU parliament. So it's a good move, but that's not why I answered. I answered because in your debate you mentioned discrimination against women, especially women in rural space. Well, I'll just say it like this. Different visions can be viewed here as discrimination as regards women in rural space than violence and everything else that is spoken of. Of course there is. But I would say here that there is a kind of discrimination with the state level against women in rural space, whether we can talk about it. Could this discrimination with a way of taking care of the village and agriculture actually cause all those discriminations or at least one good part of discrimination that happens later when family problems arise when there is no money, when crises come, when there are no credit payments, when economies fail. Does it also require, in fact, whether it is causing certain types of discrimination. So, as a member of the ruling coalition, I believe that in that part, you will also advocate to prevent discrimination against women in the country in a way that starts to lead to different concerns about Croatian village and agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83156	Replicate reply, distinguished representative Marija Ilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83157	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, there's no reason for an esteemed representative not to believe the attorney general's report. So my debate is based on her report. My debate is based on indicators that she has substantiated that I have no doubt at all. And it would be nice to say less replicating that we would just replicate, and more to strengthen that union chain of you and let's tell our wife in an effort to be our equal society tomorrow, and then just to ask you if you think a woman should drive a tractor in the rural area, that that's the rule.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83158	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the replicas and the answers to the replica. And now we will normally stop by discussing the 2013 Ombudsman's work on gender equality, and we will approach the completion of the agenda and the decision on the points of the agenda, i.e. the proposals for acts discussed by the Croatian Parliament. And now we're going back to what we stopped before deciding on certain things. All right, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, please pay attention before leaving the assembly, we schedule a plenary session, an extension of the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament on Tuesday at 9.30 p.m. with the first item, the final proposal of the Law establishing an institutional framework for the implementation of the European Structural and Investment Funds in the Republic of Croatia in the financial period from 20114 to 2020, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 678. I'm asking all the presidents of the working bodies to do the work, hold the sessions and do the material that's on the agenda. Today everything will be on the Croatian Parliament's website, agenda and work schedule. We're working until 15.7 to 24 hours until the end. So on Monday and Tuesday, so on the 14th and 15th is the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. We've got some things to do, so it worked out, so we'll do it. Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, have the conditions for continuing the debate on the report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality? They did. Is there a respected Advocate for Gender Equality? She'll be here, she announced. Dear colleague of the Czech Republic, Igor Češek, club HDSSB. Yeah, yeah, that's what I'm saying. Here you go, pal, Chesek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83160	Thank you, Mr. President. The esteemed attorneys, colleagues and fellow MPs. I waited a few seconds for Mrs. Attorney General to come because as all the clubs praised her, her and her work, here I wanted to congratulate her live on this exhaustive report that really shows the work of the Attorney's Office. How we could read from this report how much she performed on TV shows, radio shows, on various portals, and that is truly commendable, we can see that there has been an increase in TV performance and radio shows by 178.4%, which is truly commendable. Also, websites have visited a million 254 thousand 770 times which I think is very great, I hope that this will continue in the future and, as all clubs have praised this report and the HDSSB club will of course support and commend it, I hope that these praises will be an additional motivation for even more intensive work. In the morning discussion, three main topics were women in politics, women in the education system and women in the labour market. Women in politics 40%, which is the goal, I'm afraid will be difficult to achieve in the next period of time because we see 24.25% of women sitting in the Assembly, we see that in local self-government units we have 15% of women in county and city halls and only 8% of women represented in municipal councils. So, the smaller the environment, the more rural the rural area, the fewer women sit in municipal councils. I must first of all be honest with you, and when you form some candidate lists for local elections, many women have expressed their opinion that they do not want to be on the lists. This is what needs to be changed for sure because women need to change their minds, many think politics is a place for men. Of course, we have seen that where women are, that certain jobs are done a lot, they are and have greater working discipline and are less susceptible to various influences, and in that case it is commendable. When we look at an educated woman according to the data, statistics from 2011, we see that the master of science has 699, and men 530, which is, therefore, the higher the level of education, the greater the share of women. That percentage has been since '62. In 1962, women were slightly less represented as far as the education structure is concerned, and today it's something different. As far as science doctors are concerned, we have 609, and 463 men. But when we look in the areas of education, men only predominate in technical sciences. So women are more represented in all other sciences, except in technical sciences where men are represented. When we look at employment, then we see that women are more represented in shops, in accommodation activities and preparation of food services, financial activities and insurance activities, in education, in health care and social care activities, as well as in art, entertainment, recreation. I also have to point out that I know from personal experience that additional education programmes are more likely to make it easier for women to get to work in a higher percentage of men because it is evidence that they are more willing to learn more in order to get to the desired job. So they're more motivated than men. Because they're sub-represented, they just have more motivation. And we must also not forget that Croatia is traditionally a patriarchal country, i.e. the state and most of the Republic of Croatia belongs in rural areas. There are still jobs shared on men and women, this tradition should be slowly interrupted, women should come to their own, as they would say, as far as the work itself is concerned. When we look at women on the labour market, they are mostly employed in the food sector, and in smaller areas in rural areas, it's about seasonal jobs where they are, of course, less paid and, therefore, certain that they do not report all discrimination at work, they do not report mobbing cases precisely because they are afraid to lose such a necessary job. Also, unfortunately, the textile industry in the Republic of Croatia has been destroyed, which is due to privatisation, which is why imports of cheap goods have left such women out of work. Women should be provided with conditions and opportunities for work, of course, as well as for men. Once again, I thank the D.A. for this report, and I wish you a great deal of success in your work. Thank you very much. The HDSSB club will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83161	Thank you and your club. Now we're moving on to an individual debate of ten-minute MPs. It's the Honorable representative of the Dunja Spoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83162	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed attorneys and co-workers. And here's the sublime and most responsible role of life is actually to be a parent. What can a parent do in order for a child to live in love and understanding, and to gain confidence, how to help a child to discover his abilities, whether a parent has to reconsider his value standards, how to comply with the child’s age, how to stay moderately caring, how to provide children with more love and complicated work, is there any way that democracy and openness prevails in the family, how to remain both clear and consistent in raising? They're all just some of the questions parents and mothers and father ask in front of them every day. And the father wants to be more and more present in all segments of his child's life and to change what he finds inappropriate. Sometimes the expectations and attitudes of mother and father differ significantly. This does not necessarily show that one or the other are a better parent than talking about normal differences that not only need not always be avoided but even to encourage and thus add energy to that relationship. Most parents who, by their natural and social function, are the first and most important breeders of their children put a lot of effort into their psychophysical development and education to become honest people and citizens and to achieve the desired results. This obliges parents to consistently serve them with the example of good conduct and maintaining a healthy family environment in the organization of family life, in the schedule of work, duty, obligation, respect for the order and rules around women in the house and outside the house, which leads to complete independence and fostering healthy sociality, means both mother and father. The fathers are allowed to enjoy the most beautiful things in the world in parenting through another dimension of parental or maternity leave. Besides being the most beautiful it is also the hardest thing in the world, and for it we are very often unprepared especially fathers. Pelens, feeding, sleeping, cooking are not equal to moms or dads. That's not even the main problem, the main problem is if I'm doing everything right, whether I'm good enough or whether I'm good enough. Most fathers decide to stay on parental leave is not easy and is often conditioned primarily by financial reasons. There is still an opinion in society especially among men that men do not belong at home with a baby but that a mother is a better parent for a child during that period. However, a child of the earliest age needs both parents, if possible. The fathers aren't just a substitute for the current absent mother. Nothing changes a man as much as the fact that he became a father. In the Republic of Croatia, parental leave has so far been decided on by only 2.5% of fathers in 2012 4.54 in 2013 while the European average is up to 30%. The percentage of fathers on maternity leave in 2013 is definitely negligible only around 0.39%. Of the total number of all forms of maternity and parental leave, women used rights in 126.738 or 97% or almost 98%, and men in all 2,35% of cases. The data is that the Ombudsman for gender equality presented in this report and received them from the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance. The Institute of Birth and Parent Support has been in place since 1.1.2009 and its main purpose has been to protect motherhood, facilitate the coherence of family and business obligations, and facilitate greater participation of fathers in early child rearing. In this session, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity and parental assistance, which entered into force on 19 April 2013, amending and supplementing the law on the legal property of the EU and extending the minimum duration of parental leave from 3 to 4 months for each of the employees and self-employed parents, and determining the possibility of transferring 2 of the 4 months of parental leave to another parent most often to the mother of the child. This increases the possibility for fathers to leave their babies in the most sensitive period of their lives, according to the final proposal for remuneration of 100%. Being a parent to most people is the most beautiful thing in the world, but it's certainly not fairytale. Being a parent means not only to provide a family hearth and love, however proudly it sounds, but also to correct the dosing of love through education to guide a child from addiction to independence, to introduce into the world games as life needs and means of learning and to find the right forms of encouragement or reward and punishment, to maintain parental authority that children do not look at parental interrelationship, and that certainly is not a short-term procedure. It's not short-lived and it's not easy. Two to four months of parental leave for another parent most often will not categorically solve all parental concerns and fears but will at least contribute to it. Following the counsel's recommendation, let this debate also contribute to the continued raising of awareness and knowledge about the harmonisation of family and professional obligations in terms of encouraging fathers to participate more in raising and raising children.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83163	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Honorable representative Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83164	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's so it doesn't just turn out real that only women talk about this attorney's report which is normal that it's true because it's the data that's been processed. But in the discussions in which it is said, it is often mentioned, meaning, of course, the most frequently mentioned relationship between a man and a woman and a man, which is what a woman can, a man can't or the other way around. And I'm really interested in listening to all these discussions so now you and your colleagues are talking about this part of how to find that balance. And I'm thinking this way by listening to you whether we're actually in some discussions when we talk about what a woman needs to do and what a father's family needs to do and a mother's family, whether we want to help women or actually load other jobs on their backs. Imagine a woman in a rural space in an equal position with her husband. He takes a woman's motorcycle, goes into the woods and knocks down wood. Would it be okay if we asked it to be such an equality, of course, that it wouldn't, in my opinion, not logical. It's more logical for this heavy physical work to be done by a physically stronger person. You're talking about men going on maternity leave, women staying, women going to work, men staying home because it's losing sense or that father should be more with a child. I'm glad you're talking about husband and wife but I'm not happy when you're preparing a law on same-sex communities at the same time. Is that where we can talk about equality? I may be a little off-the-book, but this kind of report, this kind of report actually requires that everything be discussed in depth.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83165	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of the Dunja Špoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83166	Thank you very much. Dear colleague on behalf of all women responsible for both rural and urban matters, please do not help us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83167	Okay. Honorable representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83168	Thank you very much, esteemed president, esteemed attorney with associate, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. So this report is really the result of a valuable and committed work by the Ombudsman's Office for Gender Equality. The number of cases that were being handled during 2013 increased there is 41% and this really says that one really big job has been done. When we have such a high increase in sensitive issues as gender equality, we ask ourselves whether this increase is due to more problems on the ground or simply the result of the fact that we are more aware so that we talk more about it and then we report it. I would like to believe that this is another matter, and in this sense we should commend these numerous activities of the Advocate General in 2013 which have uncontestedly contributed to the increased visibility of the office as well as to raising that overall level of awareness of still gender inequality. When you look at the figures on all activities of the Advocate's Office, then you can be pleased to find that all available communication channels from lectures and workshops have been used in communication and related issues, through conferences, public debates, stands to radio and TV shows, newspapers and Internet portals. Speaking of the public, I must say that it is not good to send this same public from the Croatian Parliament as the highest representative and, of course, the legislative body of this country a message that the fight for equality is not necessary because we are all before the Constitution and before the laws of the same. It's a hoax, we're not equal. So we're not equal, men and women aren't equal in everyday life. By stressing that women do not fight to be more equal than men, than their partners, as it was on several occasions here in replicas tried, to be suggested, women just want to be more equal. What is particularly valuable in the activities of the Ombudsman is the establishment and maintenance of cooperation with local environments, with the field and through urban and county committees for gender equality. Because why does it matter? Because problems are actually local, they live locally. And one more thing should be commended that the office is not passive about finding additional funds for its activities but is preparing projects for European funds, so financial support for the "Glass ceiling" project has been obtained and financial Suport has also given, as we heard from the Ombudsman's report, the French and English embassies. What concerns the report are numerous cases of discrimination primarily related to work and work relations, where, of course, the contract on work has recently become the main discriminatory instrument of employers who particularly affect women when they decide to become mothers. It is therefore incomprehensible, and I have tried to point out that in the morning section of the debate, it is therefore incomprehensible that I must use this term, women who are not largely determined to give birth to children. And I would say that right now, especially in the long run, it's not the biggest Croatian problem of deficits in the state budget, it's just a deficit in the birth of children. So, on the other hand, when a woman decides to give birth to a child, then the fact about the existence of pregnancy and the birth of a child becomes the biggest obstacle in her career or in her career. What's the additional problem is sexual harassment at work. So almost every other complaint related to work and working relationship relates to sexual harassment, with complaints of sexual harassment being lodged solely by women. There's no case that a man would file a complaint for harassment. So sexual harassment is a very widespread phenomenon in the labour market because a large number of employers view it as something that actually goes hand in hand with a labor contract. We're gonna hire a woman and then, of course, it goes without saying, and we're gonna sexually harass her. However, it is interesting that compared with 2012 the number of complaints about sexual harassment declines. Of course that doesn't mean less cases of harassment. I think the reason for raising women's tolerance for sexual harassment is at work. So the long-term crisis has brought us back definitely in that sense step backwards. In fact, because of the existence of a large number of unemployed, I would say the existence of this spare labour army, where unfortunately more women than men are employers use all kinds of exploitation of workers and unfortunately the sexual one, and women are forced to suffer and endure more and more just to keep their jobs. Employers are just counting on women to be afraid, not only of losing their jobs but also of their own kind of condemnation of their surroundings. It is no wonder, therefore, that complaints are the most lodged by persons with a high level of expertise who are, in that sense, more aware, more strongly, slightly smaller persons with medium professional training while persons with lower qualifications hardly submit complaints. This is a good reason to propose, as part of the amendments to the working legislation, that work is affirmed indefinitely, and with this intention in the Labour Law, it is precisely proposed to make it significantly easier to cancel the contract indefinitely, so that the cancellation procedure is as simple as possible, so that employers are more employed indefinitely so that employees can get loans in banks or use some other benefits and some other things they can't do for now because they are employed for a certain time. Mechanisms should also be used to a greater extent, so tools to suppress work on black. We have a reminder of an e-login that the employer has to report a new employee within 24 hours. So when the field inspector comes to work, there's no way the employer says this employee came to me half an hour ago or this morning, I still haven't been able to record it, or report it. I'll warn you of another great tool to detect and suppress work on black. It's a JOPPD form, you remember about it we talked about, from which at all times it is visible whether contributions for pension and health insurance were paid to the worker, so the worker can regularly and regularly control it. Instead of the conclusion, I'll finally quote one of our popular psychologists whose attitude I fully agree with. So she says this: Relations in society are defined in the family, and my colleague used to say that. We're conservative society, more and more. Croatian youths are the most conservative in Europe because they are raised by conservative parents. The church's influence is getting stronger, and it encourages a woman to be in the house. Mothers raise sons to build a career, and their wife raises children and takes care of her house and wife. Women are more patriarchal, they actually support such a relationship, but they are also more responsible for raising children because they have a decisive influence on their education. Women have to believe they're as capable as men. In some areas men are better, and in some women, only women have to believe that. In one word, women are as responsible for the position of women as men. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83169	Thank you, too. The esteemed representative Branko Hrg has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83170	Thank you very much. I agree with the good part of your exposure and I really don't think anyone, at least I don't know who should have anything against women in society taking up status, having status and better than men. That would make sense to me, we just need to find that balance in the genders of men and women. So that should be the goal. I believe that's what you think. That's not why I answered. They said that the problems are actually local because people live there and that's right and I'm glad you said that because often times I stress that local level is where life happens, but I'm asking now why do you think at these local levels in the last few years is increasing the number of divorces. You were talking about a family, a marriage of a man and a woman, a family, that is, based on society, a healthy society. Marriages break up, jobs run out, and people just split up. You were talking about the birth deficit, and I couldn't agree more with you. It's the biggest problem right now, but what we're doing for God's sake is not getting to that deficit. Why do we have disproportionate and discrimination at local level? In one city you have free textbooks, in another city you don't have free textbooks, in some municipality you have, in another you don't have. So we do discrimination practically within the legislative framework and then we have consequences. So it just needs to be seen as such and try to find some balance so that there is no local discrimination, that people really decide to have children, to have a mother as a mother, but to be equal to a husband.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83171	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83172	My dear colleague Hrg, you said you didn't mind women being equal, that the relationship between men and women in society be uniform. However, you ask the question of how to reach that balance. You see, you men are simply afraid that this will not happen for another long time. And you're actually giving yourself an answer. Okay. [[/Intruder President: Do not generalise colleagues. Let it go.]] I'm speaking generally for real. In fact, let me put it this way, and it doesn't occur to you that actually the problem is that women get their public, their larger public engagement is one big extra burden. Of course, a large number of women are employed today without being relieved in the house at the same time. We still like to say that a woman keeps three corners in the house. So we'd be very glad if those angles were even. So men take another angle and hold two as well as women. In that case, the women would be free of that space, so that they would be publicly engaged, to achieve their careers, to realize themselves, and not to lose anything at the same time. And you say why there are so many divorces. I say, precisely because women have too much burden on their backs, and men do not show any awareness, or will to help them do their chores, raise children, care for older people, and conduct chores. When that happens, there will be more equality and more balance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83173	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative of Đurjica twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83174	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague. In much of the debate I agree with you, however, I had to react to your consent with the psychologist you read. I'm guessing that's professor. Krizmanic even when you were saying that just about all the problems that come to women is the problem in the church. I'll tell you what, I don't think that's a problem at all. I'm a believer, I'm Catholic, I'm also a religious student and I'm also a high school student and I've never really heard of a church preaching a subordinate role of a woman in society. No, it's not. In fact, someone else was taking care of her. We talked about it today. So both the respect and the role of the woman was always placed in the centre, so here I am, by chance, already somewhere for my debate that I gave up on. Among other things, the archbishop of New York says the level of each civilization is estimated at the height of the woman. So, the woman is, but if you are looking, I don’t know how much you know the Bible and how much you know the Gospel is really placed in the center, and finally the mother of God, or Mary, whom we pray very often and call upon in some way is also a model for women Catholics. That doesn't mean. If we women of Catholic women and we want to have that one role of our reconciliation, the giver of life, that, as you can see from our presentation here on the right today, we also advocate violence because it does not preach the church. And for the economic empowerment of a woman, for it preaches the church.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83175	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83176	Dear colleagues of the twilight, so you're saying that the church does not advocate the subordinate role of the woman. I disagree, and I will illustrate only one single example. I'm going to illustrate this by example of abuse, domestic abuse, which is actually very, very common. I never once felt as president of the County Committee on Gender Equality that my women had convinced me of their experiences. So it's especially about women in rural areas. So when they were literally beaten up by their husbands, they often sought help in the church, addressing priests, priests. And when they complained, they regularly responded, so it was his moment of weakness that you must forgive him. So that's terrible.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83177	Let your colleague say you don't have to agree. Okay. I just wanted to keep the record from warning all speakers that article 14. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is valid and that it definitely determines equality and equality and I will read it. Everyone in the Republic of Croatia has rights and freedoms regardless of his race, skin color, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, national or social origin, property, birth, education, social status and other characteristics are all equal before the law. Consider this and consider that there is no codified equality anywhere. Everyone from moment to moment of opportunity and circumstances thinks he's equal or he's not equal. I'm talking about social relations that are very sensitive, so let's let us take our views, our view of social circumstances. I'd like to get into that atmosphere and get this debate over with. The Honorable representative of the Sun's Head. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83178	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Attorney with your associate. I can continue on what you said, Mr. Vice President, we can talk about concrete things because they are exactly the reflection and the moment we live in, so we can talk about concrete numbers that simply show relationships, for example when we talk about the number of unemployed in today's Croatian Employment Service is 304 thousand 396 unemployed persons, of which more than 173 thousands are unemployed women. If we factor that out a little bit deeper and we look at that category that applies to customers' cash compensation of 52 thousand cash compensation users, over 27 thousand cash compensation users are therefore women. All that was said by colleagues and colleagues earlier and in their report, the Ombudsman is facts, which is that women are sub-represented in the overall structure of the employees we see from day to day and unfortunately that fact will not change so quickly. I will commend the office on what my colleague Jelash was saying, and this is not only addressing the Croatian public in a different way or more concrete way to sensitize herself for this, let's call it an unequal problem in Croatian society, which is not only a case in our country, but also in the surrounding countries. When you look at how many countries in the world have a woman at the head of the state or how many women are at the highest posts in the European Parliament or in politics in particular then we can also look back at the research conducted by the Attorney's Office, a great research that brings us to the present moment. So, if we are not just talking about the past, about 2013, what the Ombudsman says well, that in Croatia there is a very high tolerance threshold for prejudice and stereotypes on women's participation in the labour market. The study conducted at all levels of women's leading positions is on average 35%, with only 23% at highest levels and slightly lower than 40%. So the glass ceiling exists. If we break it, we don't know where we're going to end up, or who he's actually going to crash on. At the moment of 928 members of just surveyed business entities, most, 751 or 81% of them are men, and only 19% or 177 are women. It's the present in our country. At the head of 91% of the administration as president is a man, and the same percentages are at the head of the supervisory boards, although a slightly higher percentage of women are in the position of vice presidents, it is still not enough to say that there is no extremely large sub-representation of women in the highest and highest-paid decision-making bodies in Croatia. Very often we hear a syntagma or we like to pull the parallel of a woman must be where I can decide something, where something is decided is money, and unfortunately money is power. That's three steps we all know and we're not going to get rid of so easily. If we reverse them, then the men in Croatia have money and power at the moment. But what one of her colleagues said about why women address themselves when they have a situation in their family and why they return to that family again, and there is most likely that material status in question, or a woman without a job, simply has nowhere to go, or has children, does not want to leave them in the family. So these are all the problems we all know well. When your wife spoke to you, and she spoke to me, for help, she was in the safe house, she returned to the family of the abuser husband who is still there, living with her, and she asked for help. And when you refer her to your institution, then she comes back, she takes a step back and says, but I have nothing to live on. So we've been spinning around in a vicious circle for years and years. It's only a slight shift in what would allow women to be braver, to step up and leave some ugly life behind or an ugly part of life behind. When women are employed, it has already been said, they are mostly employed at a certain time, which is naturally caused by a whole series of other obstacles, and when employees on average achieve lower average gross income in the field of activity in the Croatian labour market. This shows all the relevant statistics we have. And the attorney general's research shown in this report shows that it is not mainly the employers' fault, but that there are structural obstacles that women experience, society as a whole, which is in principle subordinated to the interests and needs of men. One of the great causes of less employment and less wages than women lies in their education. Women in Croatia are a more educated part of the Croatian population or Croatian society, and of the total number of graduates at our universities 58.6% is women. And 70% of women are out of the total number of doctors in science. So the educational structure or their formal education isn't really a problem. The problem, however, is when and when they succeed in a job interview, and today they will inevitably come across questions whether you are married, do you have children, do you think you have children? These are questions which are of course discriminatory and should not be asked but are still being asked. Today, electronic and written media in the Republic of Croatia are largely creating public opinion. Speaking from a policy perspective, politics is perception. The public sees us as they see us in the media, as they hear us in the media because it's actually their real contact with us except in election units where people know you, where they approach you and where they talk to you. Of course politicians or political media are showing different things. We are prone to discrimination in different ways, so we will remember last year, our Mr. President very well involved in our debate when we invited all MPs to join in a commendable action called "Shall We Iron Equality". So it was a brilliant initiative of young people who, behold, invited men to iron their shirts. And I'll just remind our president said that thank God he has a shirt that doesn't iron. So there he is, but I think here's the way we can ask ourselves from that family level how we grow up in a family and what is actually perceived as a male or female profession. But I'm going to go back to the media a little bit more, when a politician or woman is commented on the decision-making position that rarely happens to be connected to her sex, and connecting good or poor work or politicians' behaviour is never associated with virtues or flaws that are stereotypically related to their sex, and so is the difference in the way women are shown in relation to men and any indication of the discriminatory attitude of women, towards women in politics. As much as we at the declarative level say that we are equal, we know very well that we are not. We would like it to be so, but it's not like that yet, and we're not going to change that so quickly. Entering the world of work, therefore no discriminatory issues have been devoid of. And I think it's good for the office to continue with its proactive policy on the trail as it has worked, to have as many research as possible that will give us concrete data and not all down to the fact that a woman is equal if she has a job before and after marriage because it wasn't good. And finally, given that time is running out, the latest update of the European Commission database on women and men in decision-making was completed in May of this year and I just want to tell you that the three presidents of the states are currently involved in this research and that in the national governments at EU level women account for 27% of the members of national governments and that national parliaments have equally very few women including ours, those of our famous 40% are just ahead of us. And I'm just going to finish Mr. President, since there have been some colleagues who have somehow found themselves threatened or discriminated here, I'm just going to remind myself that the law applies, these 40% to the current sub-represented sex, and who knows maybe it'll be men once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83179	With a certain amount of fear, I intervened that it was the end. He had a replica, a respected representative of Đurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83180	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, you spoke of violence and some forms of violence, of course and psychologically, and economically, and physical violence does not know what a man would say worse. Now, I'd like to say next, and you were talking about that very often women are going back to a family where they're being abused in any way. Why are they coming back? They come back because very often because of the needy courts, even the judge, and the judges when they simply come, these needy judges and judges can't tell whether it's violence or not. Well, I mean, if he just slapped you, so it's not so bad, and then the gentleman goes out and they get together, nicely split the court costs. There's one more thing, when you call the police, police, anyone to call the police, neighbors or anyone else if they hear violence, the police come, but not because they don't understand it, but they're neither educated nor can they recognize it. And then criminal charges get the abuser, which is normal, which is normal right now, we have a thank God protocol, but we also get the victim. Because if she's got a plum and it's broken, and he's got a broken fingernail then he says she ripped my fingernail and what the police are going to do, write a felony report. And that's what this is about, and that's what I'm talking about when there's no Church, that the Church doesn't advocate women's oppression, and I said I'm Catholic. What I'm saying is that this applies to all churches and all religions, nowhere is a woman in charge of being suppressed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83181	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative of the Sunana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83182	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This isn't the news bar I'm going to say now or not the section believed or not, but it happened in my constituency, it doesn't matter now in which county, but really. The husband came to court because his wife had reported him, and then he said, "But you hear the judge do so with us." So I'm really enchanting you the way it is. In some places hitting a woman, that's how you do what's the problem? So the man asked the most seriously, and he really didn’t feel guilty. So let's not banalize a very, very serious problem. So, this is direct, this is direct discrimination, this is direct abuse, but what's even more dangerous, which we talked about, what the lawyer was talking about, is the existence of hidden sexual discrimination and different kinds of discrimination in our society, and I think it's even more dangerous. And of course, the more educated society is, I think there's a better chance that even these obstacles are getting smaller. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83183	Thank you, too, dear colleague. Honorable representative Nadica Jelash, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83184	Dear fellow Glavak, you said in your debate that when employers hire women, they would ask them if they were pregnant and whether or not they would be born, they would have children. Here, you see, Mr. Hrg, you asked why women no longer decide to give birth? Why aren't there any more kids? Well, Mrs. Glavak answered you, precisely because employers behave the way they behave, so what, they're actually preventing women from being born because they're afraid that if they're born they'll be more absent from work because they're going to be sick with children, and the woman isn't, now I'm going to harshly say, just the womb. Therefore, women do not want to be realized only in one role, in the function of motherhood and motherhood. So women want to be realized as complete persons Yes, yes, yes, yes, I answer to her, I answer to Mrs. Glavak, I'm just a little dragged in by my colleague, Hrga. [[Break President: Replicate to colleague Glavak, please.]] So, women want to advance and in career, they want to achieve fully, especially with regard to the fact that, as we have heard more often today than men, it is really not appropriate, it is not acceptable for society to give up the more educated part, therefore, the more potent part of its human Corps.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83185	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Sunana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83186	I may be able on behalf of my colleagues, but he didn't give me instructions to answer on his behalf. My colleague Jelash, it's exactly what you said in the part where you replicated to me. So, as much as I disagree or disagree in those main policy guidelines, I think we're on the same track here. A young person, I sat with her yesterday, graduated, a young woman. And it's a lot of thinking about whether she's going to get married now or if she's going to get a job first. Here, since yesterday's case, indeed. She said it like that, I'm not sure what to do first. At this time when so many people in Croatia are out of work, when they may not be able to pay for those basic directors, we need to think about that and that is one of the reasons why young families may not decide at this time to have children. So, a whole series of social, economic opportunities or economic crisis, indifference leads us and that is also one of the reasons why women or families may not decide to have children, and I think it is another tragedy that can affect the country, which unfortunately has no way of improving the situation of all of us or how to work, once again I will say, over 50% of the young people in Croatia are currently unemployed. If they are employed, they are for 1600 kn, and from 1600 kn they can hardly pay the apartment, let alone have a family, or children.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83187	There is no question that there is a social problem, so there is also a social institution and a debate in the Assembly on the problem that is evident. So there is a problem with gender equality, and that is certainly why the problem is greater because there is an inequality of women in society and at the level of implementation. I agree. A colleague, Tomislav Sagar. It's good for a man to finish an individual discussion about this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83188	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed attorney with the co-worker, co-worker and co-worker. Yes, it's an honor to see you as a man finish this debate. I suppose some woman will give me a replica, so that the men won't be the last. Let me make a little joke. ... Like this, I'd start my debate with, a fellow Damir visited me, on yesterday Franz Kafka was born, so he said like this, women have great power, if I could get a few women I know to work together in my favor, I could succeed. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] As far as the report is concerned, it's done both quantitatively and qualitatively well. We're not going to repeat everything he says now, what the report tells us means is that the situation is not good. And why is that? Is it because of the degree of development of society we live in? It was often mentioned here that we live in a patriarchal society. Is that the ignorance that is otherwise the greatest enemy in progress? Prejudices and attitudes that are very difficult to change. Is this a traditional division of professions on men and women's jobs in the field of work and work relations? The purpose of the commission is to control the respect of the Law on Gender Equality and, not only of this law, but also of other laws, and we can say that the Commission is fulfilling its task. What I see as a key question that we can ask ourselves, which today from the debate actually here seemed to be in the air. And what is the purpose of gender equality? What exactly do we want to accomplish with that? Is that a civilizational reach or an administrative standard that we want to meet because of some others? I'll try to illustrate that as an example of the sexual structure of employment. Some research data that are not very recent, but unfortunately are current, say that, and this report shows that the relationship between women and men in Croatian businesses is 40% to 60%. It's an arithmetical environment while the most common mean... values suggest a third of women versus two-thirds of men. Extremely male companies where men are employed above 75%, we have 39%, and men over 50, where men are employed more than 50% is 27%. So a total of two-thirds. Highly female companies 13% and female 16% and equal number of men and women in only 5% of companies. An analysis of the sex structure in Croatian companies has shown that there is a statistically significant link between the business's activities and the company's ownership structure and the percentage of men's employees and men's ratios, while there is no correlation between the sex structure and the size of the company. Construction and so-called construction. Other activities are extremely male activities because more than 80% of businesses in these activities are dominant men. As far as ownership is concerned, we note that all companies, regardless of their ownership, are overly employed by men, but that they are significantly more represented in companies with largely state-owned property. Therefore, the situation in the field of gender equality in the field of labour and entrepreneurship is not even satisfactory. Today we are discussing gender equality in the context of the Commission's report and respect for the Law on Gender Equality. However, gender equality has profound implications for all human activities, all areas of human activity, and we could discuss this issue, for example. and in the context of all laws relating to the economic development of society. To return to this key question that I asked at the beginning of my debate, which is the purpose of gender equality. I'll give an illustration of two examples, one in general, one in the field of this report. Let us ask ourselves this question, what is the meaning of moral life and respect for moral laws? Is this a picture of us making others or is it in religious understanding the expectation of life after life because if we live morally in accordance with moral principles we will earn in another life, let’s say a more favoured position like this? Philosopher Succeeding gives a very clear message, "A moral life is the path to knowing yourself and the world around us", he even goes on and says, "There is no other way to know other than the monstrosity and respect of moral laws." When we talk about the meaning of gender equality within the family, it is very simple, functioning and survival of the family. If there is no equality, we go to extremes quickly, and that is violence and the destruction of the family. Similarly, we can pull the correlation between the gender structure of employment, success and competitiveness. Of course, it would be pretentious to conclude that activities that employ less than 50% of any sex are not competitive or that they do not benefit from both genders because there is a natural tendency to individual types of work in terms of gender. However, it can be concluded that most Croatian companies do not have a competitive structure in terms of gender ratio. Namely in companies where sexes do not participate equally in decision-making at the highest levels of management and the like, employees do not have the opportunity to understand the advantages and learn different styles of behavior and conduct. According to the modern managerial theory, companies today want to be successful respect both gender potential and working characteristics. For this reason, it is considered that the optimal ratio of employees to sex is 50-50%. And to conclude, the interest of all of us is to bring gender equality to life in all areas of human activity if we want to be a successful society, and this report should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83189	Thank you too, dear colleague. We have a replica of the respected representative, Gyurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83190	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, here I have decided to read to you in the replica in reality something that I received from my e-mail. I'm sorry it might be a little funny, but trust me on your question why we're here today, I'd say this is why. "It's not easy being a woman anywhere in the world, smart, beautiful and ambitious then other women hate you, men fear you, lazy women think you'll take their job. If you have money or you're a sponsor or you're a mistress, if you make a fool of yourself, if you spend a lot of money, you're a bitch, if you keep your mouth shut, if you dress up for someone else, if you don't dress up, you'll be replaced by someone else who gets dressed, if you have male friends or your lovers or who knows, if you're single, if you're a married fool, if you're still married, why don't you have a career, if you have a career why you're not married. When you get married when you're born, when you give birth to another child, when you give birth to two, you don't do anything, so don't you have any career."
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83191	I hope no woman would give up her sex. The answer to the replica? No, I don't. Thank you very much. The esteemed Attorney General's final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83192	Dear Mr. President, distinguished MPs and MPs. It has been a great pleasure to discuss our report today and to hear that we have touched almost all segments of the report. It is less satisfying to face the fact that we have agreed on data, statistics, situations and obstacles that are devastating. I would like to say that, as a society, in 2001, we have defined gender equality and the principle of gender equality, we have introduced ourselves as fundamental constitutional values in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. We have opted for a parity democratic responsibility and I believe that we are all personally and as part of this society responsible for the implementation of these constitutional values. I must say that we agreed in principle on political democracy, on the political parity of men and women by introducing five years ago political quotas. The political quotas have not yet come to life, and we are far from agreeing on gender equality or democratic decision-making. As we had the opportunity to hear today, our women are highly educated and it seems to me that, as a small society, we have given up very easily the high potential of a part of Croatian society. Today it was also about the media, the media whose great power is in creating social values. In the break, I had the opportunity to hear what with today's debate from a series of issues that we have raised today, the conditions that we have pointed to what the media have referred to. At sensationalism, one MP had a fight with other MPs. Otherwise, the issue of gender equality by leading this job for the third year in a row, I must say, at almost all levels somewhere in a larger place, is perceived as a question of women's rights, as a less important issue, rather than as a question that really is important for a democratic civil society to achieve prosperity in all segments of which I have spoken. Today we could also hear a remark about the existence of an independent institution of the Ombudsman, including requests for the abolition of the institution. So this is one of the issues that is reopened, it raises the question of the existence of not only the Ombudsman's institution, but also how much I understand the lawyers for people with disabilities. I will remind myself of the existence and functioning of a single institution, the institution of the occupier, who in 15 years of his work and reporting to this valuable House has been focusing on the issues of equality between men and women, on children's issues of barely 3 to 5 pages. So much talk about the extent to which they were identified as an institution, to what extent they addressed these issues, and on what level of priorities they discussed these issues. I remind you that when we talk about discriminatory grounds in the first place, citizens are discriminated against on the basis of age, secondly based on national membership, thirdly on gender-based discrimination. It is interesting not to ask the question of the abolition of a number of agencies that are zeroing at the annual level and are in line with segments of the resolution ministries and not to talk at these times about the financial justification of such institutions. I note this is about advocating the abolition of the idea of a supervisory mechanism, which is therefore a control mechanism for control, action and implementation of decisions, laws, international rules by state, public authorities, local authorities, legal persons in the field of gender equality. And I wonder how we're going to fight discrimination, red tape, corruption if we end surveillance mechanisms and leave victims to the initial conduct of only judicial proceedings in the frameworks and actions of the judiciary and the duration and uncertainty of court proceedings as they last today. I will also look back at the capacity of action, I would say limited actions of this institution regarding human sub-capacitation, financial capacitation. It will hardly be sustainable to run this institution with equal intensity, equal vision, equal pro-activeness if we continue to limit financial resources because we will not be able to be visible at local level. There is a great disproportion in the recognizability of the institution in the area of Zagreb, Zagreb County and the other 20 counties of the Republic of Croatia unless we have mechanisms that we can be present at local level. And I recognize the county Committee on Gender Equality as our extended hands of action with which we can implement national policies at local level, while still in the legal provision of the Law on Gender Equality is coordinated by the Government's body all left to personal enthusiasm and goodwill and cooperation of local committees. We show a great initiative for mediation in disputed cases, we show great interest in interfering in judicial proceedings against other anti-discrimination bodies, which requires human resources and requires financial resources to go to court debates held throughout the Republic of Croatia. Finally, I would like to conclude this, thank you all for your support, your MPs and your MPs. I think there's a big job ahead of us, I'd say all of us, all of us who are seeking responsible, democratic, parity and progressive society. I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-04-0.u83193	I have nothing to add, the MPs said everything. Now we'll stop, see you at the plenary session on Tuesday, and on Monday, I'm asking you to do the session's working bodies so that we can discuss it uninterruptedly. Please, thank you very much. The session was interrupted at 14.17 p.m. Report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality for 2013. The debate on the report is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality for 2013 is accepted." Please state who's behind this conclusion? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of the vote is 100 votes in favour and 2 abstentions are accepted by the proposed conclusion. Notify... The Committee on Gender Equality is not proposed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, so it is not decided on.
