ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u89475	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the session. And this debate on - Probation Service 2013 report is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the material. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the reports at the session, and a colleague named Silvano Hrelja comes forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u89476	Dear Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the HSU Club, I am looking for a 10 minute break to speak in front of the Croatian public and in the Croatian Assembly about, probably the last time, the problems of 3860 pensioners who have received a lifetime of severance, i.e. a paid pension. They have addressed all clubs in the Croatian Parliament with an open letter and I think they deserve to be said, in their interest, that is, about what is bothering them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u89477	Comrade Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u89478	The Croatian Labour Club is also looking for a 10 minute break on the same issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u89479	Thank you very much. I'm setting a break to 9.40. Well, you haven't answered. A colleague of Vuksic's, too? [[Intruder Vuksic: Yes, at the same time we raised.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u89480	Same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u89481	So up to 9.40 breaks. It's 9:00, 27 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:40 AM]] The position of the HSU club. [[Home is not saved.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u89483	... esteemed few colleagues and colleagues. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] This does not respect the importance of what I am about to say, and I am speaking on the basis of letters sent by the Royal user of the acquired pension insurance or intergenerational solidarity of the consumer of the lifetime severance or acquired pension as an appeal for the state to take them over in some way and not to let them down. Namely, the collection of pensions lives 24 years in Croatia and operates through a company and since 2006 is under the embarrassment of HANFA which has said that it is not in accordance with the law, and we dear gentlemen last December passed the Life Retirement Act and I really don't understand why the government doesn't want to help that company and save 3,860 users of that pension because it doesn't want the government to send such a message that it doesn't care about those people who decided that instead of spending and taking high severance, they have a life of social security as much as they're retired because of their early retirement. It's a scared message. The explanation that the government cannot intervene in private societies does not stand because all governments have intervened in private societies so far. We need to look at the general social benefits of this institute. Also, claims that financial engineering or the happiness chain are entirely unfounded because if that were true, then the Croatian State is a participant in the chain of happiness for the reason that it gave the institute an untaxable status in 2001, and when a country has a non-taxable status it means that it is a clear message to employers that they should use this model to ensure social security. So I don't understand what these higher goals are than the objectives and interests of our citizens and their long-term social security. We offered the Ministry of Finance a mathematical model that proves that if the state of Croatia had 5,000 employees in the state administration who had conditions for retirement or early retirement would have taken care of it in this way to save a billion kuna in the state budget within three years. No one takes too much attention to this mathematical model, but simply labels stick to this institute as it is someone who knows whose interest it is, who knows where the money went. I'm asking you, where did the money from the second pillar of the pension funds go in 2008 and 2009 when they lost 20% of the stock value? That's what I'm asking you. Couldn't this company have gone the same way on the financial market? And what's worst, in March 2001 for Croatian railways, was brought a programme of care where the saying said that the Institute of Life Retribution of Pensions will be used and the company has listed it here, the whole programme from the government's 2003 decisions. Don't tell me Minister Mato Church was an unserious finance minister, don't tell me. Don't tell me that Mr. Poppie is an unserious economy minister when he said it was an institute of social support both the government of the Republic of Croatia and the social partners. So, gentlemen, to conclude, yesterday the government made a decision on the 250 million kuna loan to share severances in HH, it could have gone much cheaper with this institute if it wanted to deal with it seriously. The deadline for the rescue of these people expires on 16th of the year, then the legal deadline for the company's management to launch bankruptcy. So the government of the Republic of Croatia has an offer on the table to enter ownership and to deal as the sole owner of this institute and to save and ensure social long-term social security for its citizens. I have nothing to say but that if we don't do it if we don't make an effort to have these people on our consciences all together.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u89484	On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, colleague Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u89485	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. This is a classic example of how it is best not to do anything especially when it comes to the most sensitive groups of citizens, which is a question of pensioners. These people were brought into a situation not by their own fault is more or less related to the purchase of a job internship taking place in companies owned by the Republic of Croatia. And now the government is simply giving up on them, and he doesn't want to solve these problems. What message are we sending with this? We're sending a message tomorrow to privatise health funds, pension funds, semi-privatised or privatised already have a second pillar of pension insurance. What message do citizens get based on doing nothing when it comes to the existence of the most endangered people? Yes, you can expect citizens tomorrow when you privatize that without your fees you will remain. This is about 3860 families who lose 400 kuna per month on average and 6 months did not receive their fee. They were guaranteed by companies owned by the Republic of Croatia because they signed contracts with Royal Insurance. And what do we have today? We have today to bring these people into an unembarkable situation. And on the other hand, because of inaction, this government acts like drunken billionaires when it comes to moving to elite areas, there is no problem with solving financial resources, when it comes to solving meeting halls, then one can spend one million and two hundred thousand kunas and on the other hand, it is 1200 magnetic resonances that could shorten the waiting lists of people who wait six months to perform a medical examination. How does this government treat ordinary citizens, the most endangered? You need to be patient, be patient, be patient. How long has that patience been? This is one group of 3860 people, I'm not going to talk from individuals but I'm going to talk about families because they're families with small incomes that remain without this part of the small funds. Tomorrow we will have not 3860 but we will have hundreds of thousands of citizens when certain funds are privatized that will be in such a situation, they will fail and then they will say my concern to the other. I don't think the citizens of the Republic of Croatia deserve it, I don't think these pensioners deserve it either. And that's why I'm appealing for this issue to be resolved, to solve the question of ordinary people, not to hide and hide and to hide and not to see what's going on around us, because we don't even see that there are hungry children, not that it's not our problem, it's supposed to be someone else's problem, from someone else's. I think this problem can be solved with a little will, a little effort like any problem and show sensitivity to those who deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u89486	On behalf of the club of Independent Representatives Linic, Vuksic, Hodzic, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u89487	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Every time there's a similar problem, I often hear a sentence said in the '90s, you chose this. In the '90s you voted for the capitalist system, now you have it, and now you have to taste it. No one in the '90s, no one asked anybody, no one said we'd be 20, 25 years from now. These are the consequences of wild privatisation, these are the consequences of wild capitalism and whether it is capitalism under some of the rules that we know from the base of the economy. In Croatia, no one guarantees anything anymore. The state as Pontius Pilate washes its hands of any responsibility. Whatever happens says it's a private sector we don't have the right to interfere in the private sector. All three authorities in the judicial, legislative, executive power must interfere in the private sector when there is an irregularity in the private sector when crime occurs. In this case, it's not about crime. In this case, it is a society that is not what is said to burn money, a society that needs help. If it's 3860 pensioners such as the question, the other day we were talking about 175, 180 immunological workers, it seems to the state it's just statistics. It's not fate for the state, it's not capitalism. Before we talked about socialism with a human character, let's talk about capitalism with a human character if you don't want socialism. Croatia has become socialism for the rich, only for the rich. Those who make deals with the state, those who charge first, those who are the mother state and become the mother state of most citizens of the Republic of Croatia. As a small drop of water on the palm should hold the pensioners who suffered the biggest blow in the '90s, which reduced pensions, which they did not get, who got little satisfaction back on those three occasions. And now we're leaving 3860 people to whom? In the hands of fate. We can't do that. Yeah, you can't when you won't and you don't know. When you don't want to. The government must take care of its citizens through the institutions of the system, these people must not be left to themselves, these people say only 400 kuna. You know what 400 kuna is? We boast of high wages, 400 kunas to someone depending on whether they have a meal tomorrow or not. And there are hungry people. Not only are children hungry in schools, it's not just children who beg teachers to pay for my snack so they can eat something, it's also pensioners who offer their hands more and more often and seek and fail from shame in the country. And the state comes down on its shoulders and tells me we can't do that. No, we don't want it, we don't want it, and the state has no right to say we're not able to help. They're able to help. If it is a matter of State intervention, then it must intervene first of all when it comes to children and when it comes to pensioners, the most vulnerable groups. Of course, that's what I'm counting the defenders, the disabled and all the other groups. But first of all, pensioners who, I repeat, in the '90s, have borne the burden of war on their backs as much as it seems at this point illogical. Yeah, they've had pension cuts, they've been taking money, and that's what's going on, and today they're paying for it, and I can't make it up to them. And now someone's getting an internship, the state to hunt and say, so now we can't pay these people off. So who has more confidence in the state, in us, in the politicians? No one, rightly so.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95333	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the session. And this debate on - Probation Service 2013 report is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the material. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the reports at the session. A report on the work of the Prosecution Service for 2013 will be presented in the introduction by Deputy Minister of Justice Ms Sandra Artuković Kunšt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95334	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honorable MPs and respected MPs. Professional probation service in the Republic of Croatia is a very young service. The first law on probation was passed in 2009, and the testing offices in Croatia began to open and work in mid-2011. The Croatian national sampling system is set up in accordance with the recommendations of the Council of Ministers of the European Union and is in line with the Council of Europe's recommendation. Today, the Professional Probation Service in Croatia is available to all citizens and has been recognised as a relevant part of the criminal proceedings, i.e. the criminal system, with the recognition of the trial in both the professional general public and the growing number of cases in the work. Probation jobs in Croatia are under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice, the Prosecution Sector is part of the Department of Criminal Law and Prosecution, so it is important that the trial is separated from the prison system, consisting of the central office and 12 local probation offices distributed throughout Croatia. We have rehearsal offices in Bjelovar, Dubrovnik, Osijek, Požega, Pula, Rijeka, Sisak, Split, Varazdin, Zadar and two offices in Zagreb. The trial monitors only the adult perpetrators of criminal offences, and the probation proceedings follow the entire criminal procedure. Probation jobs have proved to be very useful in times of greatest need. During the flood in eastern Croatia, convicts have done more than 11,000 hours of helping in the flooded area through the execution of work for the general good. Of course, this refers to this year but it is important to highlight and this is, of course, an opportunity to connect further activities, so development and good work Probation Service continued in 2014. Probation officers currently have more than 3000 items in the paper, of which about 65% refers to work for the general good, and about 25% to parole control cases. In view of the increase in the number of high-risk perpetrators working with probation officials, inter-resorship cooperation with the Police and the prison system, i.e. providers of different services, has been intensified. The basis for submitting this report for 2013 is Article 2. The law on probation, which states that the work of the Probation Service is reported by the Government of the Republic of Croatia once a year. The report covered all the activities of the Probation Service in 2013 and it was a year that was very important for the Probation Service because since 1 January 2013, the new Probation Act has been in force, which is in line with the new Penal Code, which has also increased the number of trial jobs and inflows. In January 2013, he started a trial office in Dubrovnik as the last office since the law provided for 12 probation offices, making this service available to all citizens in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. During 2013, the Probation Service received 3304 items and completed and solved a number of 3313 cases, with 87.62% of the cases successfully completed. The persons involved in the trial have completed a total of 436 619 hours of work for the general good, and for the purpose of carrying out work for the general good during 2013 235 new contracts have been concluded. By the end of 2013, we have a total of 728 contracts with legal persons to work for the common good. During 2013, a long-term European IPA project 2008 was successfully completed. The development of a probationary system in the Republic of Croatia, and the European Commission has accepted a proposal for a new million-euro project as part of a transitional instrument, a translation facilitity AIDS. Prosecution operations today cover the entire criminal proceedings, from the supervision of the enforcement of obligations towards the resolution of a State lawyer when deciding on criminal prosecution according to the principle of purpose, through the preparation of reports on the provision of measures to ensure the presence of defendants and precautionary measures, through reports on protective supervision carried out with a conditional sentence, with the work for the general good, with conditional discharge and full execution of prison sentences, through the production of reports for prison, the penitentiary if there is a need, through the supervision of a paroled convict, through the organisation, supervision and enforcement of specific obligations under the Penal Code and obligations under the Criminal Procedure Act. 48.5% of the items received in 2013 were conditional leave, and 33.6% of the subjects on work for the general benefit. The highest percentage of the items was of course received by the Probation Office Zagreb 1 and 20.5% respectively. During 2013, 1092 convictions were received in which the work was given for the general good, which is these 33% of all cases received. Most often, such a decision is made in relation to crimes against property, so 36.86% of all cases of work for the common good and for crimes of unauthorized production and drug trafficking, and that is 9.24%. During 2013, a total of 2005 cases related to probation proceedings were received during the execution of the prison sentence and parole of the execution of the prison sentence, and in the statistics of the crimes the largest cases received in 2013 concerned perpetrators of crimes against property, drugs and against life and the body. At the end of 2013, 79 employees were employed at the Central Office and 67 employees in the Prosecution Office, and 8 persons were assisted by offices in professional training without the establishment of a working relationship. Cooperation of the Prosecution Service during 2013 was focused on the work of the police, with the prison system, courts, state attorneys, legal persons in which the work for the general good, social care and other partners is carried out. A special protocol on police cooperation and probation has been in place since September 2013. As regards the financial indicators of the 2013 probation work, the trial system has been allocated the resources in the work totalling 10 million kunas. Although the work for the general good is only one of the segments of the probationary jobs we can perform the items of work for the general good during 2013 count in a way that totals 436619 hours in monetary value by counting the price of one hour of 18 kuna, which is the average price of the hour on auxiliary jobs through student service. By this calculation we get the result of 7 million 859 thousand kuna free of charge for a society that came from this part of the probation work for the general good. But let's not lose sight of that the greatest value of the digestive system is the one that can't be used in cash, which is actually the resociation of convicts for crimes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95335	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95336	Dear Deputy Minister, I disagree with you especially with this last sentence that you said was the greatest value of probation service and probational jobs, which is the one that cannot express money, which is the resociation of those who are under quotes, in fact without quotes. It is certainly necessary for a probationary service, that it is one of the most noble jobs, in some ways one of the most dangerous jobs, one of the most complex jobs. I've had the honor of meeting some of the people who work in probation services, having to know about it, being good psychologists, having to know the laws, having to be brave in certain cases, having different skills, and having to be aware that the salaries in probation services are very low, that these people work for very modest means, and that this is a state service that is certainly underpaid. And the working conditions of the probation service are not what they're supposed to be. But I hope it gets bigger for years. One thing that concerns me, and it certainly concerns all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. That's what you mentioned, but what doesn't normally belong to the burden of probation service is work for the common good. I think that courts in judgments often abuse this institute and for those purposes when it shouldn't be, and especially when it comes to robbery, when it comes to fraud and when it comes to people who are in charge or state service, or are parliamentary representatives or are politicians or are members of the government. They shouldn't have that institute available.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95337	Replica reply, Sandra Artuković Kunšt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95338	Thank you very much. You actually asked two questions. One concerns the salary, i.e. the remuneration and value of the work of the probationary officers, and the other concerns limiting the ability to express work for the general good in a particular type of criminal offence. As far as the salaries of probation officials are concerned, we have prepared a proposal that is actually reduced to a 10% salary supplement for probation officers, which, according to our knowledge, is in the process and I cannot tell you exactly when this decision will finally be made, because it is not only up to the Ministry of Justice. And as for restricting the right to express work for the common good, this is also the subject of which the Minister of Justice has already been here and spoke and which is being considered and taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95339	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95340	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here, in 1999, we passed the Law on the exercise of protective supervision and work for the common good, and until the establishment of probation offices, the implementation of sanctions was supervised by the Commissioners. Given all the advantages of this system in Croatia, the creation of a modern and professional probation service has begun. Probation jobs are carried out to protect the social community from the perpetrators of the crime in such a way as not to separate him from the middle by closing him in prison but to resociate him in the community. It is about integration in the community through the impact on those risk factors that have led to the committing of a crime, for example the withdrawal of drug addiction or alcohol, communication skills and the like. The probation system encourages the imposition of sanctions imposed on the community, thus reducing prison sentences and reducing the number of convicts in prisons. What's the current situation? We could hear it on the Justice Committee. Prison cases are down and today we have 3900 prisoners, the smallest number so far, and on the other hand we're increasing the subjects in the digestive system. What will be the real problem in the future? There's going to be a change of structure. In fact, even though our prison cases are on the rise, we have long-term prison sentences, and the question is how adapted we are to long-term prison sentences, and this is certainly in prison policy business ahead of us. In any case, the trial is a system set up in the Republic of Croatia, whose purpose is to humanise the enforcement of criminal sanctions and effectively resociate and integrate the perpetrators of criminal offences into the social community. The Croatian national sampling system is set up in line with the recommendations of the EU Council of Ministers as one of the priorities of the judicial reform strategy. This 2013 report shows that the conditions for the functioning of the system have been created, probation operations are under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice, and in the probation sector which is the component of the Criminal Law and Prosecution Administration in the Republic of Croatia there are 12 local probation offices. The trial is closely related to criminal proceedings. Inclusion in probation is possible when deciding on prosecution, e.g. in order to monitor the enforcement of obligations imposed by the State Attorney's Office during the criminal proceedings when a report is submitted to the court in the exercise of alternative sanctions or the execution of work for the general good and conditional convictions with protective supervision and in the execution of a prison sentence, an example of the supervision of a paroled convict. When we compare the 2013 Report with the beginnings of the Probation Service and previous reports from previous years, it can really express satisfaction with the work of the Probation Service, given that exceptional shifts are visible. During the first year of the work of the probation offices, the judgments were generally carried out which had been given for the general good at freedom and conditional convictions with protective supervision because, after the opening of the probation office, they had taken on a number of such cases which had to be delivered in haste. If we remind ourselves that in 2012 the offices began to carry out other legislation prescribed probations such as parole, detention of prisons, enforcement obligations and the resolution of a state lawyer, reporting to the victim that the convict was coming out of the maintenance of the sentence, it was a very complex job as we have had the opportunity to hear so far. And how complex a job it is shows the very practice of probationary offices. In practice, the trial takes place in the following way, so the judgment replacing the sentence of prison with work for the common good or applying a conditional sentence with protective supervision shall be delivered to the competent probationary officer or the office and the official of the call of the convict, explaining to him at all why he was invited. The interview shall collect relevant data. The relevant data shall also be requested from other bodies or, for example, from criminal records or criminal social history and the like. On the basis of the data collected, the probationary officer shall assess the risks and treatment needs of the convicts, accordingly draw up an individual programme of treatment in which the activities which the convict must fulfil are indicated. The convict accepts the program with his signature. The probationary office and legal persons in which the work for general good is carried out shall have regular contacts that, if the convict does not come to the workplace or otherwise fulfils the obligations of the probationary officer shall immediately invite him, and in the event of refusal of the execution of the work programme, the probation officer shall inform the competent court thereof and shall request the execution of the prison sentence. In the case of a conditional conviction with protective supervision, the probationary officer shall regularly meet with the convict and conduct motivational talks and monitor the implementation of the special obligations imposed on the convict. Like. Treatment for drug or alcohol addicts or through examination of medical documentation and contact with the relevant authorities shall monitor the state of affairs. The trial has other positive effects. A dozen people in 2013 who worked for the general good after the execution of the sanctions received an offer for employment in places where they worked because they proved to be quality workers. Some of the convicts remain volunteers in associations after the sanctions expire. Some convicts also received special commendation for the results achieved, which of course greatly affects their self - confidence and their own vision. The important thing is that progress has been made in the thinking and behavior of convicts through the sampling system. What are the outstanding results? If we remember that in 2012 the number of cases received increased almost 50% compared to the number of cases carried out in 2012 was 4 times higher, in 2013 the number of cases doubled compared to 2012. Over 3,000 new items were received, completed as much, of which even 88% were completed while only 0.69% of the cases were aged. Even new 234 contracts with legal persons were concluded and 41% more cases were received in 2013. With a small focus on the work for the general good, it should be noted that for the sake of economic and practicality it is necessary to ensure a large number and good dispersion of the public authorities, institutions or legal persons involved in the work for the general good in order to make the place of work as close as possible to their place of residence and, therefore, it is extremely good that the new 234 contracts with legal persons have been concluded. Work for the common good are items that record continuous growth. It should be noted that the new Penal Code has also extended the possibility of replacing prison sentences for work for the common good. If we recalculate the subject matter for the general good in the working hours as we heard from the deputy then the convicts in 2013 did as much as 400 thousand hours. And if, as a basis, we take the cost of working on auxiliary jobs through student service as we've heard, it's about a cash value of 7 million and 800 thousand kuna. And now the question that can be debated during this report and otherwise in practice is the question of repetitives and the imposition of a criminal-legal sanction for the common good because it is certainly a sanction that causes and recommendations in the public. Sometimes justifiable, sometimes unwarranted. We could talk about whether the terms of the sanctions bring about resociation in the social community, and is that possible in multiple relapsers? If 30% has been punished more than 6 times, whether it is possible to resociate, although it is true that no purpose of punishment has been achieved in such cases. What the SDP club would certainly point out again as well as many times so far is that it would be extremely good to bring a catalogue of criminal offences in which it is certainly not possible to impose those sanctions. We believe that this certainly includes criminal acts with which public money is being taken. Since this report detailed the work of the probation service in 2013 on the one hand, and on the other hand, the criminal policy of our courts is also read indirectly, the SDP club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95341	Thank you. Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95342	Dear colleagues Fabiančić-Kryžanić, let me just say a sentence about the report you were saying, it is fully acceptable, it is well written, it speaks of problems that arise in the probation services. You were actually talking about the theory of what the probation service is, what the probation service should be, less about the problems that the workers in the probation service face. Let's just say when you did, you talked about meeting probation officials with the defendants, convicts, and you mentioned what praise was worth a good practice when workers who worked for the common good stayed on jobs where they worked. However, there is a major problem that there is insufficient technical and physical support in the work of probation services. Let's just say when a convict and a probation officer are to meet, when they need to talk, when they need to do that session, it's very common to happen that there's no money for the travel expenses of convicts who are supposed to get to a probation officer or that there's no car that a probation officer should get 30 or 40 kilometers to a convict. That's when big problems arise, problems arise and in practice, and we know it well, they tell us when there's no room for voluntary work and when it's just listed as it used to be for students that work, practice, says don't bother me to just write you down. It's done and these 400,000 hours are often an empty number.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95343	Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95344	Thank you very much. What you're saying now, fellow Vuksic, is difficult to answer because the report does not show whether or not there is enough technical and physical support. I'd even dare say I can't agree with that, is if more than 3,000 completed cases are even 80% done. With such a high percentage, it is very difficult to agree that there is no technical and physical support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95345	Thank you. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95346	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, fellow MPs and MPs this report on the work of the judicial authority in Croatia for 2013 will obviously pass in this house. And I would point out, however, with this occasion some of the shortcomings and failures that appear in this area today in Croatia. I have noted something on the side about this government's support for this report, which is understandable that the Government supports any report that is positive because it goes in favour of it, but I further quote "The Government of the Republic of Croatia notes that by analysing the European Court of Human Rights rulings adopted in relation to the Republic of Croatia can easily declare that the European Court in a large number of cases determines infringements of one or more of the Convention's rights in law because of the way in which national legislation is applied which is not in accordance with the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, while in a small number of judgments it determines violations of the Convention due to the non-compliance of legislation with the Convention" and I end the quote there. It is known how much Croatia has given to the European Court of Justice for not being settled in our courts has been resolved by the European Court of Justice and certain penalties that we had to pay for non-execution and for the non-compliance of our case-law with the European Convention and European practice. On the other hand, I am familiar with the case of bribery and corruption in courts and that one of the judges of the Split Municipal Court is not only suspected of the crime of taking bribes, but has also been transferred from the Split court so that he is not tried by fellow municipal judges, transferred to Rijeka and has received 4.5 years of imprisonment because he has been proven bribery and corruption. The man who took part in the bribery of the judge, persuaded clients that they could bribe Now I'm gonna finish it. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Kolega Grubišić, just a moment.]] Yes, but that applies to the judicial authority. [[Intruder Zgrebec: You are talking about the work of the judicial authority, and we are discussing a trial report.]] I will end this exhibition very briefly, Mr. Caine is gone, but I believe that the people who are convicted cannot appear at party meetings and be the feathers of a particular political party, and it has been proven guilty and that they have participated in bribing judges in concrete life. [[But you're reading the government's report on another topic. Here you go, finish up.]] It's, with names, clearly, I won't go out, but I know exactly who it's about, and if I should give a statement somewhere that goes in writing, I'd be happy to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95347	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists, colleague Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95348	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the deputy minister of honor. We heard right away in the beginning that this is a relatively new form of execution and therefore they are also possible. what we know usually in the jargon to say, children's diseases that are usually being dealt with in walking, that is, over time, but that this sampling system has its positive sides and that it should have been introduced, it absolutely stands. The fact is that there are positive effects that are highlighted worldwide, which in that part of the world that introduced it and here are already mentioned by my predecessors and the resociation and reintegration of convicts into the community, but also the release of prisons and penitentiary that are still overcrowded. What's to me, let's say, stuck to an ear or an eye while I was reading these numbers, which as many as the hours of work have been accomplished, so let's say 436 thousand 619 hours of free work, the monetary value of that taken account of the student service turns out to be 7 million, etc., but I'd like to have a list of companies here, a list of companies, a list of NGOs. Where were those jobs done? When you look at it and do we even control how it's done and what it's done, and when you look at what it is, it's really sometimes those jobs that fall into the category of hobby and relaxation, so it's planting and watering crops, baskets, it's building hedges, and so it's all something that I don't say relaxingly for those convicts. Not to forget, I will also remind you of the observations of the Committee on Justice which it has mentioned, i.e. asked the applicant to consider the mechanism of action in the event of refusal to perform the work for the greater good, and I hope that there will be some moderation in the future for that too. But even today, the question has already been asked here, who is all allowed to use this form? So now we have a situation that these are mostly, not mostly, but rather more often seen members of the social community. So these more prominent members of the social community retain their status even in the execution of such penalties. So then you have a situation to say the Head of the Prosecution Office, at least that kind of information I got, I can't categorically claim that it's true, but on different sides came such information, so I have no reason to doubt, that the Director of the Probation Office calls, I'm calling, some office for voluntary, voluntary work, and he's asking if you need a head of this non-governmental office, this one says, "I don't have, well, no matter what you don't have, but give me a few hours to get me that one and that one, and we'll close that case. That's unfortunately the reality. I'll remind you of the debate a few months ago, now I can't tell exactly what it was about, which item of the agenda was, but I think it was a replica of the distinguished representative Kosor when she said that there was no social condemnation in Croatia. So then you have a situation to say people who are legally condemned are running in the elections, even more than some get into the second round, some are elected, it's a lack of awareness among citizens that this someone did something that is neither in the interest of these same citizens nor in the interests of society. What's worst of all, then I run into the director of an institution, of these institutions we're talking about, says we're prepared to receive a VIP. Watch the paradox, we've got VIPs in prisons and penitentiarys. But it's not a bad joke, it's a reality. That even when they come to the execution of the sentence, they are appreciated, respected, even by those who oversee them. Because it's to be able to meet with someone you've seen most of the time in central information shows. And until this perception of us in our heads changes this form that is absolutely good for those reasons that you listed at the beginning, but I have repeated them, too, is a dubious and dubious realization of this project, given that the lack of control in my opinion, and also in the opinion of those who work in it is quite ineffective. But we'll support this report as a report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95349	Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95350	So here's a respected colleague at first you said it would be good to see in the report at least the legal person in which the work for the common good was done. So here on page 31 of Table 5 you have a good number of legal persons from which you can see what kinds of jobs have been done in the work for the general good. And with the part that I couldn't agree with you and your presentation, it's that we in our discussions are very inclined to talk about something that we've heard, and based on that, we're making the conclusion that there's no surveillance. The surveillance of the work of the Probation Service certainly exists and cannot agree with such flat-rate grades, not verifiable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95351	A young Novak response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95352	Dear MPs are people who work in this system. Dahl should get a written statement from them that should still be verified by the public notary so he can present it here as evidence. So I think what else should be done than the statements of people working in that system, I don't know what else.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95353	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95354	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Novak, you mentioned and there was also a replica, but several times in the debates different about the different proposals of the law and the reports by saying about the problem Croatia is facing further and, of course, in the work of the judiciary, I found that we have today and in this sense we can be satisfied in one part. We also have the verdicts and that fine number of convictions for the most severe crimes. But what's visible from the election, so I often reminded the local elections that were held last year that were visible even in the first round, but then if not in the first then in the second, the voters also chose the people who were long spoken of in public and suspected of certain crimes. People who were under investigation, people who were suspected, people against whom criminal charges were filed and often times and those who had already been given first-degree convictions, were still won in the elections, I repeat some in the first round. This is proof of what is a topic and must be a topic often discussed in the Croatian Parliament that there is actually no real, true, solid social condemnation. And we recently heard comments, and here I am in some electronic media related to some arrests where citizens were justified, so they said what if he did it was good to us too. So that's what this is all about, and we need to talk about it more often and much, much more openly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95355	The answer to the line of Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95356	Thank you very much. Well, the fact is, with us in general, the system of values has been disrupted completely. But how do you expect citizens to change their perception of someone's responsibility, social responsibilities when you have people who are from the system of which it's a profession, which should be 100%, when they're talking about some VIP guests, I mean it's already been sent not to say from these internal lines sent a message, that's how it's still VIP guests, VIP people, respected people, respected members of our community.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95357	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Shantek. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95358	Dear Madam Vice President, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I must firstly say that I am glad that all the speakers have actually focused on several topics, but I must admit that this report is rarely seen in the first paragraph, which will quote "The Research Service of the Republic of Croatia during the past period through active participation in the number of international meetings, conferences and workshops has been profiled as a professional and professional young Prosecution Service in Europe, and its employees have been accepted as experts in developing the Probation Service in Europe". So the Probation Service in the Republic of Croatia only worked for the first year under a new law, and it has already become recognised in Europe, and its employees have been accepted as experts in the development of probationary services in Europe, so I would say only every honour, so to speak. However, I would also agree with my colleague Vuksic, who said he should point out in such reports the problems the system faces, the more they did not start until a few years ago. And we see that there were a lot of problems, so there were a lot of objects to process. Of the total number of completed cases, 2903 87% were successfully executed and in 142 cases, and 4.3% had to return to the penitentiary for law enforcement, which I still have to admit very little. All of us who have worked in this system know that renaissance is great and that it is also very important for this probation service because if a convict does not receive the orderly state he is used to in the execution of prison sentences, then he is regularly returning to, or again, committing criminal acts and returning to the execution of prison sentences. We see further from this report, and what my predecessors have all pointed out, and even the deputy minister that this subject worked for the greater good, indeed, deserved proper attention. The work for the general good, of course, says such a measure of the courts and the probation service executes it. However, what is entangled in any case for the eye, and this was also in the previous 2012 report, most often pronounced for crimes against property as much as 36%, and for the criminal offence of unauthorized drug production. So, according to the 2013 report, 1149 rulings were successfully carried out in which the sentence of work for the general good was imposed and in more than half 53% were over 480 hours. What I would also like to make my contribution to this passage relating to the calculation of how good it is, how much this has contributed to the budget of the Republic of Croatia, so these 436 thousand 619 hours of free work, their equivalent of 7 million 859 thousand kuna. But what I don't understand is why you calculate as a criterion the cost of working on auxiliary jobs through a student service. We have at the next point at this session of the Assembly report on the work of the penitentiary. And there is information that the cost, the average daily cost per prisoner in the Republic of Croatia, is 56 kuna. So, perhaps these 436 thousand jobs for the common good might be better to look at and recalculate in terms of how many prison days it is. How much in this way perhaps the state has saved through this procedure. As in the 2012 debate, I would point out that according to a report among the former, previously punished persons, 73% have been punished several times. 18 people were punished once, 15% were twice, 30% more than six times and 9% had no data because they didn't, they didn't ask through the records. All of this points to the fact that there is also a high probability of criminal return, a prevention that will pose a major challenge for the practice service itself. So, for example. In 2012, two cases were received for work, for the general good in which the perpetrators were previously punished 32 times for various crimes and multiple injuries in the area. If, in the Law, Article 2. The law on probation states that probation operations are carried out with the aim of protecting the social community of perpetrators of criminal acts, it is really not clear how to protect the social community from multiple returnees in committing criminal offences if they are allowed to carry out penalties for working through the common good, therefore at large. And this financial report for this year shows that about 60% of the spending of the probation service refers to employee costs and only 14% for the resociation of a convicted person through sanctions, which sanctions are carried out on the loose. Unlike in 2012, when 27% of the budget was foreseen for this. Unlike the 2012 Probation Service Report, we have information in this report that in the Central Office's probation service and probation offices there are 66 high professional staff, 18 social workers, 16 lawyers, 13 social educators, 10 psychologists, 1 pedagogogog and 8 employees who are different societies of humanistic professions. And again, the question is, what about the fullness of the electronic surveillance department? According to displayed employment, there are no technical expertise experts, so ITs, electricians who could work in that office. Also in the 2012 report, we have nothing on the work of that department of electronic surveillance, it is not known whether the equipment for that department, in which the size, the use of that equipment and the experience of the department of use of that equipment has been obtained. I think that these are the questions that should be answered by the more that when the Probation Act is passed, everyone pointed out or everyone thought that this particular electronic surveillance department would play its part more because today's technology is easy to monitor that the perpetrator who has a protective measure must not approach the victim. It's easy to track through that system, so I'm surprised it wasn't covered by these reports. Here, despite these remarks, the HDZ Club can support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95359	On behalf of the DC club, the New Wave and the National Reformist Party, colleague Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95360	Dear Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Deputy Minister. Absolutely, and our club will support this report because the shifts here are more visible. I would say that the trial is still, given the other European Union countries, still not sufficiently alive in our country, as we would like, of course, because just conditional convictions and parole should be the basis of the probation system. Even in the minds of the citizens I have to admit, it's not a system of probation that's revived, they're simply wondering what that means, whether the murderers, rapists, pedophiles are going to be feasting there now. No, they won't, because simply the most difficult forms and perpetrators of the most serious crimes absolutely can't get into this sampling system. Recently, a survey came out where citizens were wondering whether or not they were for the sampling system, so 19.3 said it was particularly against, 15.1% of citizens said mostly alone against, I did not say anything 29.1%, mostly 21.7%, I said 13.8%. It just shows how many gunmen aren't clear yet what that actually means. This in the first place means that the prison system will have great savings if the probation system develops, especially for those prisoners who are practically less punished and convicted of minor crimes. A daily prisoner costs about 300 to 400 kuna. These costs could absolutely be reduced if the digestive system were to develop more, and of course by leaving those who are convicted of easier crimes remains a place to withstand punishment for those people who have committed more serious crimes, those people who are dangerous criminals, so they are convicted of the most serious forms of crime, murder, organised crime, robbery, rape and who, of course, cannot hope for this form of freedom with scrutiny. So there's no need to be afraid that mobsters and perpetrators of serious crime could go free in this way. However, probation measures could reduce the prison population by slightly more than 20%, and I think this should be the goal of the ministry and politics to free up prison facilities. In 2001, when we looked at the prison system, we had extra space in prisons, and then we later had 5700 prisoners, and our capacities were about 1,500 less. Therefore, this measure is absolutely very useful, and on the very side of those who are perpetrators of easier crimes will practically return to the social community faster and this trial system is actually an opportunity for a second chance. He is called that because he really gives second chance to those who have committed easier crimes. We will absolutely support this report because this is an indicator that the digestive system in Croatia goes forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95361	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95362	Dear colleagues of the Scare-Ozbolt, you said we shouldn't be afraid that those who have committed serious crimes will be released. So many who have committed serious crimes have not even gone to prison but are, not those who have not been processed, but those who have been prosecuted are judges, is stealing 17 million kunas not a hard crime, and who are being punished by peeling potatoes and statistics in 400,000 hours of those who have never even peeled potatoes. I think we need to face reality here, and when we talk about the Probation Service, we need to talk again to the uniformity of the case law and to what it is, which is not punishment, and how courts should treat serious criminal acts, should we ask, discuss here and decide whether the theft is 10, 20, 30 million kuna, especially when it is committed by politicians, a serious crime or not. If it's not, okay, then let's do business seriously.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95363	Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95364	I've been waiting all this time for someone to ask a question about peeling potatoes because it's really a top topic in the country. Well, I'm so that whoever takes large amounts of taxpayers' money works at the end, not to sit in jail and watch TV. So if you need to peel off millions of tons of potatoes, if you need some clean rivers, if you need some clean ambrosia, if you need to clean up the firehouse there and let it work, and let it work. And I'm more into it than watching TV and feeding it, and it's far better fed in the prison system than in hospitals. Because all they produce, the prison system produces food for itself, and hospitals get to ask God where the food comes from. Therefore, I am to place such examples as you state in the system of work, not in the system of lying.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95365	Joseph Salapic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95366	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, Ozbolt, so I think the real goal of the trial is to not only relieve prisons with a large number of prisoners and a system that is in grave condition in Croatia, given the large number of people in prisons today. What's wrong with this should certainly be supported. It's not always about putting someone in jail to achieve a real purpose of conviction. Unfortunately, some current cases shed false light on the probation service, this system that has been hard to build in Croatia for years. I prefer that we change some laws in terms of procedural treatment, so today you have this court public. That's why individual cases are mentioned, I don't know how to peel potatoes, so cases of people who were in prison, then released, then re-convicted, then settled with the prosecution, and got paroled. I think it would be a major failure if we now blamed the entire service for having been replaced by a punishment for general good or parole. I support what you said, and I also support that some changes are necessary in Croatia. Because that condemnation to the public throws a bad picture not only on the probation service, the probation system, but on the entire justice system. And if someone ends up in an investigative prison, then the public's perception is that they should be in jail for at least five years. And if it comes out with parole and work for up to a year then the Croatian state is such that it does not condemn criminals, people who break the laws and throw the rights of the entire system of justice. We must have a firm system and we must have the perception of a judicial system that it protects the rights of citizens, and the court must not be a court that will ultimately decide whether someone is guilty or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95367	Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95368	Dear fellow Salapic, I would agree with you almost everything you have said. The digestive system absolutely needs to be developed as you have stated, and this is the right way, as it is developed by other countries. So, the digestive system is a system of second chances for those who are perpetrators of milder punishments and acts, not these difficult corrupts, as stated by counterpart Vuksic. However, there should also be the possibility that simply perpetrators and these corrupt acts in some way are, the wrong word is to delay, but in any case work to return at least one part that they have taken by their actions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95369	On behalf of the Club of Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HGS, a colleague of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95370	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister. So, very briefly, since it is an excellently structured report, an important report and an important service. Of course, full support because it's worth repeating here what's actually based on the work of probation service and resociation, going back to the lives of people who have sinned in laws, but they've got through this really second chance. Reintegration, therefore, but certainly all of which are of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia. And I would say that this service, that is, the opportunities provided through the work of this service, is certainly important in preventing relapses. So that, in my opinion, is another important role of the probation service and should be given full support to all the people who work. It's a very difficult job, often an ungrateful job that requires a lot of knowledge not only of a legal person, but of a lot of others. And it certainly isn't just business for the general good, although in this debate it seems like the probation service rests on the work for the common good and thus is very often identified. So, it would be good for this debate to give rise to a broader vision of what the probation service and probational affairs are. The fact that we get both praises and praises in the EU institutions is important for the work of this relatively young and new service, and I think that this is a real example of how it should be done. Of course, there is always enough financial resources for this because the work of the probation service is not and cannot be cheap. What is an important fact also mentioned several times is that compared to 2012 the number of cases has doubled. So, about parole, dismissal 48.5% for general good work 33.6% and most of all for crimes against property, as well as for abuse of all possible forms of abuse of good. What I would like to highlight here is about working for the general good most often mentioned and where in the report we have one catalogue of working opportunities for the general good. So, where convicts are said to work on a variety of jobs from planting and watering plantations, skins, building hedges to working with children mentally ill persons, disabled people, addicts in associations that deal with therapeutic riding and many other jobs. Therefore, the work for general good is not imagined and must not be experienced and must not be perceived as a kind of privilege or as a kind of reward. This is the result of this debate, however, it is of course important to know what legal options are and how the work for the general good is being done because, as the report here says, the most represented of the probationary tasks is the execution of the work for the general good and it is pronounced by the court as a substitute for a prison sentence of up to 1 year or a substitute for a fine or as an obligation which the State's attorney may impose on the defendant if he has suspended or waived prosecution. So here in these provisions we should also look for answers to some of the questions that are still being asked here today. However, I agree with all those and I think that this debate should, in some way, result in a kind of conclusion that there should be very firm and strong criteria in all cases where work for the general good can be determined and no of these criteria should be given up at any level. When I mention the work for the general good and the jobs of which I have mentioned, and when you compare the crimes which are the same here in some kind of catalogue, the crimes that can be or whose punishment can be transformed into work for the general good, then you will see that there are also acts of sexual abuse and child exploitation. And I therefore warn that since these institutions, associations through which work can be done for the general good, among others, and associations dealing with therapeutic riding, and it is known that children come, that minors come, that children with great difficulties in development, that then work for the greater good in no way can be possible to work in such associations for those who have been convicted or who have committed serious acts of sexual abuse and child abuse. Because I think these are the most serious crimes. Anyone who is able to use a child in any way, a minor, a person with problems should be punished and should not be allowed to work in such institutions or associations in any way, as it is also listed among other things that working with children in children's institutions is possible. But I repeat, therapeutic riding is one specific feature where people who work in this system are mostly volunteers, so people who do it really for the greater good, they're mostly young people, and they're users of children that parents bring in and then deal with something else. So these children are then left exclusively to the people who surround them. But I believe the system's taking care of it. However, it is never too small to warn. And regarding a conditional conviction with protective supervision and special obligations, I would like special attention to be paid to the fact that here and states that major difficulties arise in the attempt to involve convicts in psychosocial treatment and that this is mainly about criminal acts of domestic violence. And we know and try to remember, you will all remember the relatively recent events when the domestic bully even here in front of an institution in Zagreb killed his wife as a bully in the family known to be declared, not to mention the terrible events of the Community Court in Zagreb from '99. when a domestic bully in a divorce case killed three women, his own and his judge, and unfortunately the people who had absolutely nothing to do but try to protect the victim. So, I also warn that people who have received parole with supervision or special obligations are persons and in many cases I repeat that there is a major problem in the family, and we see here from the reports, and among those who are drug addicts. It is very difficult and it should not only read this report in order to reach that conclusion, the practice says that very often such individuals avoid any form of treatment. So, for them in my opinion, you need to enhance psychosocial treatment. In conclusion, of course for every man, for every person no matter what problems he has entered into in respect of the law, for breaking the law, for less serious and more difficult acts should be fought, you should try everything to return to the system, to return to society, to return to your family, to strengthen psychosocial treatment. But of course for those, especially those who are repeaters of works, the state, and then this system should have no mercy either. We'll support this report, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95371	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95372	Dear colleagues Kosor, of course I speak for myself, of course the Probation Service must not and cannot blame all the problems that rule in the judiciary because the Probation Service has its own, as I said in the first replica of the noble service, the mission, the noble mission. And the Probation Service, I agree fully with you, should not be identified with the work of general good. And that's where we're clean. A colleague of the Vesna Skare-Ozbolt used to say that she was for the system of work, not lying down. And the system of work can also be in prisons. And I'm not talking about those people who are detained, I'm talking about those people who are rightly sentenced to severe punishment, so those who are, it's even embarrassing that people who are convicted of serious crimes to have a prison for up to a year. Imagine the judiciary in which you are sentenced to a serious crime sentence of one year. And the other thing you were talking about is the thugs in the family. We're still a society that's tolerated to the bullyes of the family. A part of society, and unfortunately a part of judges experience domestic abusers as macho men and behaves like that. We are a society that is tolerated by many deviations in society. So we don't declare those people who have committed serious crimes, but, in particular, thefts, embezzlements, but we consider them the pillars of society, and so do these men who like to raise their hands and harass in the family, we consider them pardon macho men, which is sad and what they say about deviations that should be corrected that have nothing to do with the promotional service. And of course this report should be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95373	Jadranka Kosor, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95374	Thank you very much. Well, I'll start with this last one. Of course I agree with you. So here I was also involved in making many and many laws, and strategies, and protocols, rules to combat domestic violence, so against violent men who are mostly men, these are often married friends, and out-of-marriage friends, and partners, sons unfortunately also. And they need no mercy. I agree with you, someone who's a domestic bully, who beats his wife at home, and in public is a smooth politician, a doctor, a lawyer, can't be anything. But there's also no social condemnation. Because there's a lot of people who even talk about it publicly and criticizing it, but they keep the figure in their pocket because they think well, but I don't think it's gonna fall off her head if she fucks here and there in her teeth. That's what I've heard from a couple of intellectual excellencees who think it's their right. As far as working for the common good, I think it's actually not a good way to simplify it because you think about the whole system, from investigations to indictments, there are people in that chain, and that's good, and that system has to support, which gives key information, which at some point crucially indicates key information to them and of course the system, and of course they repent, and of course the system must somehow open the door to the exit. In particularly complicated cases, it is sometimes a fact and should be taken into account. But I agree, I said in my debate, the criteria must be solid, cemented, very clear, and no one can get through them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95375	Sonja König, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95376	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of our Parliament. Dear colleagues Kosor, you mentioned a list of jobs, i.e. a list of legal persons with whom a contract was concluded for the execution of work for the general good. Among them are many units of local self-government. What concerns me is a huge disproportionate number of contracts made by county. In some of our country's counties, almost all municipalities and cities in the area have concluded a contract with the area's probation departments, but in some counties none. Here, in my opinion, we actually need to make additional efforts to identify the benefits of such a system or at least as many as possible. That's what I want to warn you about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95377	Jadranka Kosor responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95378	I agree with you. It's only a matter of whether all units of the local government want it. So I believe that, because there is often sodium often about it, so when someone comes to work for the common good, there is sodium environments about what such a person can bring, of course, in a negative sense. But I agree with you that this should be evenly distributed because I have seen myself in this list that there are, say, not when we're talking about associations, just associations that care about children, children with developmental difficulties that some associations that I would certainly think they have, that I know are not involved in this system, and I think they should. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95379	And Joseph Salapic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95380	Thank you, Vice President. Mrs. Kosor, I think when you talked about the criteria, that they were, that it was a key emphasis on criteria. I'm going to repeat my thesis "One or two cases can't individually be a picture for the whole system." When we gave the laws to the state's attorneys and investigators that there was an institute of settlements, and the institute says that the one who admitted the work and discovered other information which is the state's higher interest, did we now have more achieved by "someone who works for the greater good by one year" and that person gave information about another six, seven, eight perpetrators who may have committed more serious crimes than those for whom the person who made a deal with the prosecution. So what's the state's best interest? Does this one give one of the perpetrators that the convenience of working for the common good, and at the same time there have been other perpetrators, perhaps you are pursuing crimes where they will no longer be free to continue doing what they did because they will be in prisons for a much longer time than this probationary deadline, or is that public assessment such that one day is a convenience simply because it deals with politics? I don't think criminals are just politicians, I don't think domestic thugs are just politicians. So also, if everything in the state were to be seen that everything that is wrong is only politics then we have freed a much bigger system so that some perpetrators can walk freely in Croatia if they do not deal with politics. So, that one flat rate that all evil... out of politics, that's not even fair. And I'm saying, the probation system needs to be supported, it needs to be modernised, and it needs to be done all the way that in any case a higher interest must be the protection of the state and protection of citizens from those who commit crimes. Then we did well first of all our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95381	Jadranka Kosor, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95382	Thank you very much. It wasn't me, and I believe you didn't even realize that I was talking about politicians as the worst evil. In fact, no, I was just talking about some examples of that. A domestic bully cannot be a respected politician, nor a representative, nor a minister, nor a mayor, nor a mayor, because he who is a domestic bully is no one, in my opinion is no one, and then he cannot perform either prominent duties and be a respected citizen. But the fact is, I agree absolutely, that when we talk about this project that we shouldn't talk between the lines about cases that are known, it means individual cases, because here is not a courtroom, this isn't DORH or USKOK, but we are MPs who need to look much wider at the whole process and the total legislation from the Constitution, here to the Criminal Law or the CAP. Surely, when we talk about the work of USKOK, or the work of the state's attorney's office in difficult cases, often the public objectes to why it has been withdrawn for years, it has not been processed. Because that institution often needs a key. So the door, the building, the door was found, but there's no key to unlock. If a person offers in his statement a key that was included in the whole process, the key, then a special framework should be set for such a person and in the sphere of final judgment, i.e. punishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95383	On behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club, counterpart Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95384	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Madam Deputy Minister. The report on the work of the testing service for 2013, very technical, tax, professional and transparent, states the terms of analysis, structure and statistics on the work of the probation service in 2013. Prosecution is conditioned and supervised freedom of perpetrators of criminal offences, during the conduct of testing services in cooperation with the community working to protect society from return, through rehabilitation, reintegration of perpetrators of criminal offences into society, respecting the rights and needs of the victim. So allow me to repeat regarding the report itself that two important events marked the year 2013 in the Croatian Prosecution System. The first was the opening of the Probation Office in Dubrovnik and the beginning of... new probationary affairs prescribed by the new Law on Probation, which entered into force on January 01, 2013. In the past year, the probation service has also achieved excellent results in the execution of probationary tasks and has doubled the number of subjects in work compared to 2012. She accepted the execution of 3304 new items. She finished 3313 cases, of which 87.62% successfully. The persons involved in the trial have completed a total of 436 thousand 619 hours of work for the common good. 234 new contracts for the execution of work for the general good have been concluded. These are data that speak about the work of Probation Service in Croatia and show that the probation service is well organized and that it does its job in quality. Let me say something more why we at the HNS think that probation service and its more quality work are important to society as a whole. The state was created by a social contract where we, self-aware individuals, gave up some of our freedoms and passed on certain jobs to the state that it does for us. One of the most important things that the state does for its citizens is the trial. The state, through an independent judiciary, resolves citizens' disputes through a repressive judicial system, punishes evil and protects good. Crime in any form is evil. Fighting good and evil is an eternal struggle. Crime, or evil, and the fight against evil are the greatest part of all world literature. Among other things, they speak of Sophoclo and Sheakspea and Goethe and Thomas..., Dostoyevsky in Crime and Penalty or Brothers..., Jean Paul..., e.g. Milan Kundera in the book of laughter and oblivion. The evil is spoken of in its own way by Freud, a special study of evil is dedicated to the modern philosopher.... It all turns out that evil in a man is somebody's name, but fighting evil is even more important. A man in a community can't live in evil without fighting evil, and good always wins in the end, evil doesn't pay off. It's important to talk publicly about good and evil, it's important to competently talk about right things and the real non-transient values that make a man a noble, thought-out being. The society as a whole should not accept flat-rate, unprofessional, sensational, populist, demagogue discussions and assessments of good and evil. Otherwise, it leads to devastation and ultimately to collapse of real values, constant real values that must be pillars of our existence and on which each individual or individual can always rely. With the development of civilization, especially so-called "Civility". Western, sorry, Western civilizations, man has developed and developed a system of defense against evil, crime to the penitentiary institutes. Penology, the science of punishment has developed to the height of the scientific system in order to punish the perpetrators of criminal offences fairly and properly and justly and satisfactorily, as well as the victim. For the purposes of common understanding, a penalty should not be retaliatory, the penalty must contain elements of punishment, warnings, prevention and general message. In the execution of the sentence, and the execution of the sentence is a procedure, he, this procedure must contain all the elements, the tools of resociating the perpetrator, but all the curative measures in relation to the victim. The process must include both the victim's family and the perpetrator's family. Most of us, in the HNS of Liberal Democrats, believe that the position of the victim is crucial and that the laws and procedures must be adapted to the protection of victims, not theoretically legal in the right process, clearly with the satisfaction of all human and real rights of the perpetrators of criminal acts. The perpetrators of criminal offences after becoming convicts, and in particular with prison sentences in criminal proceedings, must also be treated professionally for their reintegration into society after the execution of the sentence. It is important to say that every verdict and message, a message condemning the convicted, the message of the victim, is ultimately no less important message to the wider community. The basic or final message must be that the penalty is right and fair, and ultimately that crime, crime, evil, is not paid and will always be sanctioned by the court on behalf of the citizens. In modern modern countries there are numerous crimes that should be sanctioned and where only a reminder or a fine is not enough, and the prison sentence is not necessary and therefore it is good that there is an institute of probation in Croatia. It has already been said that probation is a conditioned and supervised freedom of perpetrators of crime. Based on the report in question on the work of the Probation Service, it is certain that the Probation Service in Croatia is well developed, that it is properly deployed in the county centres. The so-placed work of the Probation Service is the assumption of its effectiveness. Probation offices shall carry out their work related to the assessment of the criminal risks and treatment needs of the perpetrator. The establishment of an individual programme of conduct, supervision of the resolution of obligations towards the resolution of a State lawyer when deciding on a criminal programme according to the principle of purposefulness, procedures for the execution of a conditional sentence with safeguards and work for the general good at freedom, supervision of enforcement of obligations, the obligation to report regularly to a particular person or state body, supervision of the implementation of measures established by the solution to determine the prison of inquiry, the establishment of reports on prison or punishment, supervision of... the convicted convict, the making of reports on the perpetrator, the State Attorney's Office, the court or judge of execution, the work of the organisation of support and the assistance of the victims and the injured, and the support and assistance of the family of the victim and the family of the perpetrators of the crime. [[The speaker reads too fast doesn't understand.]] The judgments given for the general good on the loose may be expressed in legal entities with which a contract on the execution of work for the general welfare of local self-government bodies is concluded, as well as in bodies with public powers which do not require the signing of a contract. The criterion for establishing cooperation with institutions and other legal persons is the activity of legal persons, which must benefit the social community. This may be humanitarian, ecological, communal, or other similar general useful activity. With regard to evil, crime, the relationship against punishment, the relationship between the victim and their families, the state shows its degree of development, social maturity and justice... and the work of trial and the process that connects for this... trial, the state gives stability, and society and individuals security. The independence of the judiciary is not enough with mandatory independence and expertise, competence, high level of knowledge is also necessary. All of this is established by one of the most important pillars of the state on which citizens as I have already said must be able to rely. In these processes, the fight against good and evil justice is an instrument of the state that represents good, and in the end, the free lives of citizens are well. The Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats accepts this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95385	We're moving on to an individual debate. My colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95386	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I support this report, the report on the work of the Probation Service for 2013, so the service established in accordance with the Law on Testing 2012 which is a fundamental task precisely in relation to the resociation and reintegration of defendants and convicts. I must also say immediately at first that this is not new in some way in our penalty system or in criminal law in the broadest sense of the word. First of all, I should point out, and I am doing exactly what I am doing right now, how a conditional conviction with protective supervision or special measures of obligations has existed in our criminal law almost forever. However, the judges, while the law was gone, were not the most likely to give parole even though they themselves found that protective supervision and special obligations were needed. However, it has not been resolved precisely in other laws or in some sublaws in order to carry out such a conditional conviction with protective supervision or specific obligations. This is exactly what this proposal for a law on whose application of the report is now being discussed. I must point out here that the European Commission is making one remark to us on the work of a criminal trial that our courts often state the measure of caution, the measure of ensuring the defendants in the detention procedure, also saying that prison sentences are often imposed, and that few of these options are currently being used by the law on probation. However, that is not true because on the other hand we see that citizens are in some way dissatisfied, they believe that conditional convictions, including those now with protective supervision, are often used. But if we see statistics then we can say that our citizens are right, but I am not going to judge now whether it is justified or not, but in any case this European Commission remark is not true because 74% of all convictions in criminal trial end up with just a conditional conviction, a conditional conviction, often with protective supervision or special obligations, in which percentage and to what extent it is all visible in the report, and I will not repeat it. In particular, I would also point out that one is also new, which is certainly good for trial jobs during the execution of prison sentences and parole I would say that they are now fully and secure and is already in some way secure and by introducing judicialisation into our penitentiary system when we have introduced a judge who is now largely benefiting both this service and with much more certainty can assess that the rest of the fines can therefore be provided to him by parole. A conditional discharge is one of the institutes without which it is almost unimaginable, it would be unthinkable to maintain both order and discipline and motivation of the prisoners themselves without hope of parole. Of course, there is never enough caution in all of this. What should also be noted and what also often causes some confusion in the public when it is possible to express work for the common good at all. In that case alone, it is pronounced by the court when the sentence of the law is determined for up to a year, then the court may also give him the work for the common good. He was also one of the new ones, there is little to talk about and that is exactly the role, the new role of the state's attorney in overseeing the enforcement of obligations towards the resolution of the state's attorney himself when he decides to pursue criminal prosecution according to the principle of purpose, which is why he was also notified of the news that we introduced in the reform of the criminal trial, particularly through the Criminal Procedure Act. Because once a state lawyer could only perform ex offo in adulthood and not have had such an opportunity to perform according to the principle of opportunity. However, he can do so now, with some of this fulfilment of the legal requirements, and that is, in cases where the defendant assumes and fulfils a certain obligation, there has been a payment of a certain amount in favour of a public institution, humanitarian or caritative purpose, payment of the legal abstention and orderly payment of the obligations made, and then the performance of the work for the general good, subjection, withdrawal of drugs and other addictions, subjecting to psychosocial therapy. We see here that both state lawyers and judges and the prison system would be happy to use this particular measure, the safeguard measure, the measure of security and subjectment to psychosocial therapy but that there are often no adequate persons, professionals in certain environments, in counties and cities, therefore we do not have professionals who accept these persons so that this measure can be implemented. Here it is important to mention something that causes great confusion I would also say to the general public, which is about the very course of proceedings and the release of suspects, i.e. already the defendants of bail-freeness. We all know well, and that's all I remind myself of, that once under the Law on the Penal Procedure of Guarantees could only be given in those, only for those reasons, which is to ensure the presence of the defendants in the proceedings, or that he, by giving bail, escapes the execution of punishment or somewhere, then loses his bail. However, under the new Law on the Criminal Procedure of Guarantees, it is not limited in this respect. Therefore, it is necessary to seriously consider amending the law on criminal proceedings and hence on this role of the state's attorney's office as well as the court during the insurance of the defendants and his presence in the proceedings. Namely, both fines and bail are personal measures, which means by the nature of things, it used to be but it seemed common that only the defendant could pay the fine because it's not administrative so it doesn't matter who paid for it. Today we have such situations that the public rightly criticises and that is what counterpart Kosor has warned of, so it is not ours to assess how the courts or the state's attorneys are doing in a specific case. But if we see something that does not correspond to justice and which causes great confusion of citizens, then we must at a legislative level, so is our basic task and mission to make the law change in that sense. Because freedom and justice are not for sale. Someone can't afford freedom because they have money or because their friends have money without anyone asking. And often these guarantees are higher, no one checks the origin than what the defendant is charged with, so much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95387	We have reported three replicas. First honoured Stjepan Milinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95388	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues Antičević-Marinović did not intend to enter these legal waters because my knowledge is that modest but probably you can, you are in this area let's say an expert like those experts, as it says in the introduction that ours have been profiled from this probation service as world experts although it works briefly. But also to welcome what you've been saying, the achievements and effects that she's done probationally, but with that goal, the fundamental goal, I've noticed, and that's why I've come forward, with the aim of resociating and reintegration of convicts. And that's to say hello. But I don't understand how this report stands, so I'm asking you to maybe explain this moment, how it appears among the previously punished persons, 73% has been punished several times, 73 times, so 18% of the people have been punished once and so 15%, that's the statistics. It's not clear to me how with such experts, experts and all that expensive and these achievements, how so many relapsers. I don't understand that, so please explain that moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95389	Replication response, respected Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95390	I am glad that you have not succumbed to populism because our basic tasks, i.e. the penal system and the entire criminal legislation, unlike some other systems, are merely retribution, but other than redistribution and retribution which certainly every punishment in nature itself is that, but the accent is here, especially when we talk about probation, reintegration and in some way retribution that such persons are useful members and do no more crimes. What you're asking is, I'm directly because we don't see it here, but somehow from practice at least I can say it's safe, but surely there should be a little bit of a tightening in the situation, most of the time it's small, let's say small delinquents that often repeat some less serious crimes. However, I can agree with you that some mass and such petty acts are yet one of a rather small criminal will and perseverance as a professional delinquent for which they should and in what respect should be more difficult to react. It would be difficult to resolve by amending the law limited and then the judicial authority to say if he was repeatedly convicted no matter how lewdly a work he could not be told. But it's obvious what you rightly point to even though you say you're not an expert, but no one should be an expert who doesn't see any obvious things, so that one tenacity in committing criminal acts certainly places him, such a person in a closed system candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95391	Another replica, the esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95392	Thank you very much. My colleagues Antičević-Marinović, and you have touched an important topic, especially important, guarantees as special measures and I agree with your considerations. So I would also like to suggest that, as president of an extremely important committee in cooperation with the Committee on Justice, perhaps the Committee on the Constitution, you organise one round table and one discussion on this topic to see, I agree with you that these laws should be changed because freedom is the greatest value, freedom of every man is the greatest value and the greatest absolute wealth. That's why we need to reconsider this institute because it's not allowed, and that's how citizens perceive it, that bail is only true for rich people, so freedom in that sense can only be provided by those rich or those who have rich friends. And here I think that we really need to agree on some changes and some restrictions on suspects, that is, for the defendants in that process because this is how I think that the bail institute itself is going down as a possible, possibly release institute.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95393	Replication response, respected Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95394	Certainly, we can also propose to the chairman of the Justice Committee, and here I am as chairman of the Committee on Legislatives, to consider amending the Law on Criminal Procedure with regard to the restriction of bail, as it once was only in those cases where it threatens in particular the risk of escape, and not in cases where it threatens to influence witnesses and if you pay, then you will not influence, and we have not yet provided adequate monitoring and insurance of such one condition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95395	Third replica, respected Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95396	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, I also wanted what my colleague Kosor said to reflect on your bail hearing. It is absolutely certain that it deserves attention and that it is, some new things are introduced into the Croatian judiciary which is good, however, it should be harmonised criteria, it should be that there should be no guarantee institute for the rich and when released from detention with bail to check it out quite safely, what legal professionals will know to shape, the origin of that money that is given as bail or real estate. But that's not done, which the last bail has raised the nation to its right. I agree with you completely when you say it, and I repeat it from day to day, that when we see that part of the system doesn't work, we in the Assembly need to launch an initiative for change. And one thing I don't agree with, you said in one line well that you didn't fall for populism. Better to fall for populistism than produce, it causes defetism, as this government has caused defetism in society.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95397	The replica matches the respected Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95398	I think that in terms of this second part of what you've just said we're actually agreeing because to respond really to something that people, citizens with right and what their brain and heart won't understand have the right to not understand, it's not pulsism, it's precisely an invitation to act and that's what we agree on. And once again, I will repeat what you, my colleague Kosor, are in my tail and you point out that freedom and justice are not and can't be market categories and are not for sale because if they do, then it's the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95399	We're continuing an individual debate. The esteemed Nada Murganic has applied for the debate. She's gone. She's losing her right to argue. So they will discuss the esteemed Drazenko Pandek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95400	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed deputy minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the 2013 report on the work of the probation service represents a correct cross-section of the activities of the probation service. After he entered into force, the new Law on Testing of Service doubled the number of subjects in work. But despite that increase, the service has completed over 3300 cases, hence over 87% of which have been successfully executed. In 142 cases or over 4%, therefore the sentence of criminal justice was replaced by a prison sentence. I found it interesting that, therefore, the sanction imposed was replaced by a sentence of imprisonment, in which the number of cases was a recurrence of a criminal offence, in which the number of cases of violation of parole, thus parole or non-execution of imposed obligations, etc. I think these data are extremely important in assessing the impact of the country's foam policy performance, and here in this report we cannot, therefore, learn these details. Otherwise I'm a percentage of 4.3% is to say failure in a trial period is I'd say an extremely good percentage and we should hope in any case that's a real number. Some available data on the success of the application of the digestive system in countries where this system is applied for a long time show a successful end to the 87% trial period and a breach of the probation conditions in some 15% of cases. So by these figures, if we compare them to these countries, our system would be counted essentially in extremely successful although it doesn't have as long a tradition as in the countries of the Anglo-Saxon legal system. In this regard, it should be noted, therefore, that the success of this probation system depends not only on its introduction into legislation, or generally on the judicial system, but also on its real implementation. In this surveillance of delinquents, it must not remain to say just superficially that I do not know of the ritual visitation of a probationary officer in his office. Supervision of delinquents if we want this system to function must be in their real social environment, their home, and especially in those places that may have significance for convicts as a criminal factor. There's a role of probation service just huge, heavy and very demanding. But only such treatment can result. So here's why I'd like to see in this report, in addition to purely statistical figures, that I say more meat, content. For example, how many visits have been made to persons who are in a trial regime, with which difficulties have been encountered by a probationary, individual probationary official and the like. And this report shows, therefore, that there are a significant number of people who are relapsers, including those involved in the sampling system. A considerable number of people who are therefore already involved in the sampling system have committed a return of six or more times. Now let me perhaps express my suspicion that only a mere reporting to a probationary officer in such multiple relapsers will have sufficient positive effect. So, I should think in the report on this, it may indicate how many persons who have therefore successfully passed through the trial have again committed a criminal offence. I'm saying, if such records are not kept here, I'd like to appeal for the monitoring of such cases to be established. So it's my impression that the sampling system can still get the most positive effects in the treatment of the person who, for the first time, committed the crime or possibly the second time. In these already, relapsers who have repeated the work six or more times are very questionable and their inclusion in the sampling system. Unfortunately, since our prisons are overloaded properly and seriously conducting the trial can, therefore, serve as an extremely good tool to combat crime and relieve the prison system. If we look at a little external experience, there's a study by the Manhattan Institute for the 1999 Policy Research that assessed the reasons for the 26 percent decline in the rate of crimes committed in the United States between '93. And '96. It concluded there, therefore, that probation is one of the most promising means to reduce the crime rate. But it has been warned that this tool can be used far more efficiently, so it is a tool that is often used badly, and in these cases it does not produce the results it could. Also, regardless of the basic thought of leadership in each penal policy, it must be a resociation of the implementation of probationary affairs lightly without so clear a message to the perpetrator of the crime that the non-execution of his obligations will be sanctioned is essentially counterproductive. In order to achieve the objectives of the implementation of the testing system, I do not think there is a better method than direct insight into the life situation of the perpetrator and therefore taking appropriate measures aimed at, so first of all, to resuscitate and rehabilitate the perpetrator, so that and take it out of the zone in which... a new crime. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would therefore like, once again to note in the next report, to see a little more detailed picture of how many outings were on the ground, how many of these outcomes ended with a positive assessment, which were difficulties in working, etc. I would like to express the satisfaction of taking advantage of the possibility set out in the new article 34. The law on probation allowed by the Ministry of Justice to conclude a contract for cooperation in the execution of probationary tasks, i.e. with associations of citizens and other legal persons registered for the conduct of humanitarian and other similar transactions. This segment is also seen in this report and certainly deserves praise and encouragement to a broader example. In 2013 and beyond when we analyse the report, 1149 rulings were successfully carried out in which work was given for the common good. With regard to work for the common good I have here is the need to highlight a couple of observations not so much related to the work of the service, but necessary on the subject. In fact, the public has justifiably criticised the fact that some acts of corruption express work for the common good that it is not in itself controversial or problematic but in my opinion, it may be a difficult duration of this work. So we had the opportunity to see that for corruption crimes in which millions of damages were committed, the replacement of the sentence by working for the common good on freedom is too short. The public has justifiably reacted negatively to such phenomena. The zero-tolerance policy on corruption was somewhat diminished. So if the co-ruler in the criminal acts of corruption for millions of dollars is going to answer I don't know by peeling a few dozen kilos of potatoes, I don't think he's going to see his success. I would say weak and general and general prevention as well as a sense of justice in society and trust in the institutions of the system. Therefore, according to the present situation, the Court may impose a fine of 360 daily amounts or a prison sentence of up to 1 year may be replaced by a work for the common good. When the court replaces the fine by working for the general good, it will therefore replace one daily amount of two hours of work, and when the sentence replaces the work for the general good, it will replace one day of prison with two hours of work. I'd say that this sub-region is still too small and doesn't suit the purpose of giving criminal sanctions. Here's why I would like to take the opportunity to appeal to the Prosecution Service as well as the competent ministry to launch a discussion on the tightening of the two-hour regime so far. I would personally say that one day in prison should be changed by at least four hours of working for the common good as well as one daily amount of fine. I will personally try to launch a debate on this issue, but I also appeal to the competent institutions for such a debate to start from their level. Finally, I would support the report with the remarks I made.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95401	Thank you. Dear John Shantek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95402	Dear fellow Pandek, I'm glad we actually agree on everything, and I'm particularly glad you pointed out that I'm going to quote, "I need to oversee delinquents in real time in their home." I would say not only in their home but also in their movement because we see from this report that the work for the general good is pronounced for crimes against property in 36% but also for the criminal offence of unauthorized production and traffic... And now we're going back to what I said in my debate, which is why we don't have any information on the work of the electronic surveillance department. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Wouldn't this particular delinquent, especially the relapser, be much easier to control their movement with the electronics that today's technology allows? So if someone is sure that they will be monitored, that every step of it is known, if they exceed the allowed area to be automatically alarmed in the digestive system, so as not to just reduce the number of relapsers that we see here that there are even over 73% of them dealing with the digestive system. I think it's a question that deserves an answer and I appeal to the Deputy Minister to give us some answers in his final statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95403	The replica matches the esteemed Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95404	Thank you. So I also pointed out in my debate that in any case it is necessary to check in real time the perpetrators of crimes, or persons who are therefore at large and have already committed crimes and are under protective supervision, that everyone should be checked in their real environment. And one of the methods I welcome is certainly the use of modern technologies. I even believe that the cost that would have been done in this way could be returned multiple times to prevent certain illegal behaviours that cause both social and property damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95405	Second replica, esteemed Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95406	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Pandek and I are constantly insinuating this relapse problem. I did the same in a way I tried to ask my colleague Anticevic-Marinović and indeed this is what you say was one six times. Well, there's that fact that one was 32 times who was in the relapse of such acts. And it's an honor to achieve the Probation Service, expertise, I'm not getting into it. But it's not clear to me that how to re-reciprocate with so many numbers and for what actions are coming again and what is this way and who is in that chain, in that system where it's wrong. I did the same thing here last Friday, and I was discussing the quality of court trials for young people where we also asked very important questions of quality, professionalism, specialization of people. Because if someone who was in Međimurje who was talking about comes and picks up every year, they don't pick up potatoes, pick up potatoes, pick up potatoes, pick up every year in a row. What is the qualification of such works, and what category does it enter? He leaves this one there without existence, he's been working hard all year, he picks up here and happens again. Well, I don't think that makes any sense to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95407	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Drazenko Pandek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95408	Thank you. I think that's basically a question that needs to be started a little wider discussion, of course, at some professional gatherings. Personally, I think that people who are so... re-renaissance that they need to talk more about a certain possibility of even rehabilitating, and I think that unfortunately, these methods don't help anymore. The only thing that can possibly help is the removal of such persons from the social environment in a way that makes it more impossible for them to commit crimes again. And this rehabilitation system, as I said in the debate, should be focused on people who first came into the position that they committed a crime a long time ago, and here in such persons, I don't feel like I need to complain about any effort, no time, no resources to help them get out of the right way and get them back into their social environment in the best possible way. And unfortunately for those who are 36 times already, I'm afraid we should use some other methods here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95409	The debate was also attended by respected Igor Coleman, but he was not in the hall. So the final minutes belong to the respected deputy justice minister, Mrs. Sandri Artuković Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95410	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and respected MPs. When it comes to issues relating to the judiciary or to the contact of the judiciary, a number of information or information on how some corrupt behaviors occur, how some bribe is given to someone, how the situation is misused, etc. I will take this opportunity to warn of the existence of Article 204. The law on criminal proceedings by which each one of us has learned, or has been given suspicion of committing a crime, is obliged to report it, even in accordance with Article 301. A criminal code if we knew or knew that a criminal offence was being prepared or committed for which a sentence was intended for more than 5 years and we did not report it, and that act was committed or at least tried, we committed a criminal offence ourselves for which we could receive a prison sentence of one year. So, I'm just saying this all to repeat myself and keep talking about how some of the knowledge exists creates a picture of the corrupt judiciary and it's actually supposed to get its own realization through a criminal application and it's basically lagging behind. They talked about the conditions of the probation officer's work and said they didn't have enough vehicles. The Ministry of Justice has taken up a wide range of activities and through procurement within the justice ministry's own system and through projects every probation office now has a vehicle. There was a reference to a note related to the so-called “treasury”. vip users of the testing system. I can make that clear, it's not about them having preferential treatment, on the contrary. Anyone in the digestive system has equal treatment, and what has been mentioned with the vip marking is the fact that there is a particularly enhanced interest in the media for those users, or those in the trial system, so it is necessary that probationary officials have both certain skills and knowledge to approach this enhanced interest of the media when performing probational tasks for some of them. It was also spoken and was often mentioned in the action of electronic surveillance. So we're not for the perpetrators of criminal acts to be chipped, to say it so popularly. It may be easier, it may be practical, it may make our jobs easier for us, but probation is exactly the opposite system of it. The trial goes "harder way", probation means individual access to each of the perpetrators of criminal acts in a way that will lead, in the best approach and to the maintenance of penalties, or alternative sanctions, to what is called its rehabilitation goal. We were not inclined to introduce electronic surveillance automatically and immediately. On the contrary, all experts agree that the introduction of electronic surveillance is one of the elements of support for the probation service at the time when it is already sufficiently developed to serve it. It's only when we get to this stage of development of the probationary system that we are now only in the phase that we can through a specific pilot project over a period of 6 months check and see if electronic surveillance will give us the results we want. And in that sense, we are within the framework of a project that we have agreed on and plotted. So, just on the basis of checking what effects we get from this system, we'll decide, we'll make a final decision on that. I'll repeat who goes into the digestive system again, because there was some information here that might be in doubt about that decision. So, those defendants who have been sentenced to prison for up to 6 months go into the probation system, and those who have been sentenced to prison for up to a year can go, but they also don't have to decide everything depending on the characteristics and will decide the court of course, but depending on the defendant and his profile. There were talks about where the convicts are going, and of course it's no automatic job, it's not a ritualized job, it's not a job that goes so that it's the institution's turn, and then the defendant is sent there. On the contrary, it is just an individual approach and there is no way to say one who has been involved in drug abuse is in a position to do trial work somewhere where such substances can occur, or what you have said about children. On the contrary, it's not happening and it's not going to happen. It was said that there was a missing person, and there was no telling where people could go to do the probation work. The report on page 32 to 36 sets out the exact list of legal persons performing probational tasks. So that's exactly what the report says. This report is not about the issue of detention and the issue of enforcement or the possibility of bailing out, but if some proposals were followed in this direction, however, I would only ask for detention is an insurance measure and it is not a punishment that we always keep in mind. And what was said was the calculation of the calculation of the work for the general good in relation to the price, etc. Of course, working for the general good is not possible to fully calculate and level out linearly. I'll just point out that we're one of the countries that, with these two hours a day, has actually a very high labour rate. There can never be an ideal relationship, and in any case this system is, as we mentioned at the beginning of the report, relatively young for us, so let's let it develop a little bit more and then maybe we'll change the calculations as you suggested. And what's perhaps the most important message here on the subject... maybe we should think about it, or we're thinking intensively and in that sense and we're acting and doing both through probation and through other measures of work and treatment of prisoners, maybe he's the one who's repeated so many times, or in... is about his crimes, and he's been in so-called. The old system, maybe he deserved someone else to deal with it. I'm not going to say that all the defendants are the same, maybe they're people who never got a chance in life, maybe they're people that nobody treated with respect, maybe they're people who never had a chance to work in some sort of orderly system of work, so maybe some of them, if they get such a chance, right through the trial, they won't be... If we do it with one, I think we did it right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95411	Thank you. We have reported three replicas. First respected Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95412	Thank you. Dear Deputy Minister, at the very beginning of your closing statement, you were saying that all of us are bound by the Penal Code, Articles 204 and 301. We know that, however, when spoken here from the constituencies and guides also when mentioned by name and last name and when said work, should not the DORH be spoken by official duty. Several presses have been made in the Assembly to discuss the criminal acts of certain people. In the Assembly, they counted and the state's attorney said there were no criminal charges, and 10 criminal charges existed on the case. In addition, let's not fool ourselves about how the state's attorney works. It works selectively and we learned to do it selectively. I think that here all the colleagues who have debated so far have given support to the probation service, have given support to the report and the report is good, and no one is questioning the intended probation service, some of the problems facing the probation service in the daily work, but there is no service that has no problem, no service that has enough money, and it is quite certain that what you said, the probation service is harder and it is a more complicated system than itself, let's say electronic surveillance, or even now, because it has a completely different task, and that is what you said, resociation and in this is complete support to the probation services. But I repeat, the MP here is obliged to speak the truth from the pay phone and speak some knowledge and when he talks about some of the knowledge in his discussions does because he wants society to be well and points to problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95413	Replica reply, Deputy Sandra Artuković Kunšt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95414	Thank you very much. I'll just say it again, it wasn't a reference to exposure to you, Mr. Honorable Representative, but it was said here that there was some knowledge of corrupt acts in the judiciary, and I appealed that if it was possible for her to apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95415	Another replica, the esteemed Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95416	Thank you very much. Well, about my replica refers to what my predecessor used to say. I didn't see this as some kind of threat, but just like that, let's say a reminder that if we had any knowledge that we could report them to certain institutions. But I remind you that from this pay phone there were several times of speech, especially when there was a State's Attorney's Office report, about specific cases, about specific names, but there was no result of that. Therefore, it can't be said that, I don't know, I can't, not just me, but any parliamentary representative can't launch investigative actions, there are no mechanisms that have these particular institutions, and therefore, the fact that we're pointing out something gives enough space to those who exist, which is why they're founded to take certain actions, to verify the justification of these allegations. But now we're not even talking about this today, about this debate today, but about those discussions when it was decoded, about what, who, who, who, why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95417	Third replica, Reverend Ivan Shantek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95418	Thank you. The esteemed deputy minister, and in line, I was offered what you said about the Department of Electronic Control. Here, in this report on page 20, there's a scheme in which this department is named, but there's no letter about his work. No one here in the debate, and I listened to them carefully, didn't mention chipping, but there are some problems that would be much easier to solve with some kind of electronic systems. We all know that courts also say a protective measure to ban access to the victim or to a certain space, therefore with today's degree of technology, it's far simpler to resolve than to have probation officials go after their client to say so and then to the corner to check what he's doing. I think it is also important to make things much easier for everyone who is being followed and for those who follow them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95419	Replica reply, Deputy Sandra Artuković Kunšt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95420	Thank you very much. It's true, we've stated that there's this department, and in the meantime we've been changing the regulation, the regulation has brought about a different organization, and it's really just about that, and I'm just going to point out, especially in the treatment of prisoners, we're not here to make things easier for us, but to do the job the best possible way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95421	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95422	Probation service work report for 2013. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. A report on the work of the Prosecution Service for 2013 is hereby adopted. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the conclusion was accepted by most votes, 109 for one abstention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95423	We move to the next item of the agenda, it is - Report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions for 2013. The report was delivered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motions. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Gender Equality. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95424	Thank you very much. The annual report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prisons and other units shall contain basic indicators of the numerous states of prisoners and their schedule, activities, system structure, and the type and description of cases related to the handling of prisoners, the number and structure of officials as well as the financial operations of the Administration of the prison system. In 2010, we had the maximum number of persons in the prison system, i.e. prisoners, and that number was 5.162. The number of prisoners and minors in the Croatian prison system has been in continuous decline since 2010. On 31 December 2011, there were 5,084 prisoners in the system, 2012. 4,741 prisoners, 2013 4.352 prisoners and minors, and although this report refers to 2013 the opportunity is also good and excellent data from this year. For example, the 11th of July prison system contained a total of 4.101 prisoners and minors, with a capacity of 3,907 prisoners until a few days ago on 1 December 2014. These figures prove that we have overcome the difficult problem of overcrowding Croatian prisons. These results are not random, namely in the previous period, we have taken a number of measures and activities to reduce the re-supply of our prison systems and those that we have designed ourselves and those to which our partners have referred us, and especially the EU Community. In addition to those conditionally said simpler measures which are building type and are implemented in the sense that parts of existing capacities have been expanded or re-designed, we have specifically engaged in the relevant amendments to certain laws, and this is the Criminal Code, the Law on Criminal Procedure with a view to reconstructing and adapting the penal policy in general in the Republic of Croatia to the current tendencies of this aim of adequate rehabilitation of the defendants. The CAP has been amended and regarding the duration of the investigation prison, we have actually structured and organised and trained the Probation Service that we spoke of, we have modified the access to the parole institute in accordance with international recommendations and good practice. The results of the measures and activities taken are visible in the fact that the number of prisoners and accommodation facilities are significantly approximated. At the same time, activities continue to be undertaken to increase accommodation facilities for prisoners. At the end of 2010, total accommodation facilities were 3,501 places and 3,351 places in penitentiary and prisons and 150 places in educational establishments. Over the past 3.5 years, by upgrading the refurbishing, the re-purpose capacity has increased to 4,022 places, of which 3,900 places are in penitentiary and prisons, and 122 places are in educational institutions. When measuring and calculating new capacities, it was certainly taken into account that the provisions of Article 74(3) were complied with. The law on the execution of a prison sentence under which the provisions of a room in which prisoners stay must be clean, dry and sufficiently spacious, and for each prisoner in the dormitory shall be at least 4 square metres and 10 cubic metres of space. The total prison capacity on 11 July 2014 in penitentiary and prisons is sufficient for the accommodation of 3,900 inhabitants, of which 2,911 seats or 74,64% in closed conditions and 910 places in penitentiary penitentiary facilities, and 2,001 places in prisons and in the prison hospital in Zagreb for legally sentenced prisoners, for investigators and for convicts. In semi-opened institutions, we have 704 seats or 18%, and in open conditions of expression, 285 seats or 7.31%. We still have the highest fill-up in closed prison and penitentiary conditions and that fill-up is 111% and that is the area where we are making the most of our efforts to structure on the ideal ratio and this situation. The half-opened and open conditions are filled under the legal capacity with 92.3% of the open conditions even with 62.18%. We don't have a problem with overcrowding in educational institutions. The total capacity on the day of the 11th of July 2014 in educational institutions is sufficient accommodation of 122 minors and is continuously filled only about 60%. In accordance with the 2011-2014 Action Plan for improvement of the prison system, various activities have been undertaken to improve the very conditions of accommodation. With the construction of a new facility in the Penitentiary in Glina for the accommodation of 420 prisoners under closed conditions of detention, we have completely restored the existing or old accommodation facility known as the Internat, which is intended for the accommodation of prisoners under semi-open conditions within the closed penitentiary. We were included in the IPA TAIB 2012-2013 project called Support for the prison system of the Republic of Croatia with the planned funds of €4.69 million with the general objective of increasing the professional and management skills of the Administration of the Prison System and supporting the application of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms in the Prison System. The expected results of this project are improving the infrastructure conditions and lifelong education of employees working in these institutions, improving their living... to rehabilitate minors at the Turopoly Breeding Institute and inform the prison system administration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 2013 there was an adaptation of the area of the penitentiary in Požega and the Institute of Breeding in Požega for the purpose of moving the open ward for prisoners to the premises used by the juvenile educational institution and we moved the minors to another also adequate space. It is estimated that the move is a major step in raising standards for the maintenance of penalties not only in the open department, but also in this semi-open and closed prison department which also gained more space and opportunities for possible and further redecoration. In the prison in Bjelovar, a part of the facility in which the prison is located resulted in an additional space for the accommodation of 15 prisoners, adequate rooms for storage of the archive and improved space in the kitchen. The prison in Osijek and the prison in Pula have been adapted for access and stay disabled. The Penitentiary in Lepoglav has 4 rooms for staying persons with disabilities with an appropriate sanitary node. In the prison in Bjelovar, construction works are under way in terms of adapting the space for accommodation of disabled prisoners and building a ramp. At the prison hospital in Zagreb we are installing an elevator. Right now, works are under way to build elevators, and it will not only be reduced to elevators but also to edit the environment and space for access to people with disabilities. In addition to the upgrade and adjustment of the accommodation facilities, we have continued with other activities to reduce the negative impact of overcrowding of prison conditions and this is realised through an increase in diversity, treatment facilities and the number of prisoners covered by these activities, the transfer of prisoners to mild conditions of execution of the prison sentence and intensification and maintenance of all rooms in which the prisoners reside and work. Activities have also been taken to improve the health care of prisoners since 1 July 2013 under the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, under which persons with residence, or permanent stay in the Republic of Croatia, are subject to the decision of the competent court to withdraw liberty and are located in the establishment units of the Ministry of Justice and, according to the application of the Ministry of Justice. This started a process allowing for raising the availability and quality of health care for prisoners. By the end of 2013, a third of the prisoners also received their basic health insurance cards and were recommended to the criminal authorities by an informative flyer for prisoners and on what criteria they submitted a request for supplementary health insurance on the burden of the state budget. Respecting the absolute ban on the torture of inhuman and humiliating treatment or punishment, and the same day we spoke of significant efforts to ensure and implement the rights of prisoners to accommodation suitable for human dignity and health standards, quality and sufficient nutrition, and the longer stay of prisoners outside the accommodation rooms with the possibility of providing suitable facilities for the organisation and use of leisure time and taking into account the needs arising from the assessment of the risks of each individual prisoner and the consequent security of criminal offences and the social community. It is evident from all of this that continued efforts are being made by both legislative and executive authorities to improve the quality of accommodation conditions for prisoners, respecting European and other international recommendations and standards of prisoner accommodation in our prison institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95425	I thank the deputy. We have two replicas. First respected Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95426	Dear Mrs Artuković Kunšt, the report shows that a significant effort has been made in recent years to improve prison conditions. It sounds quite ironic when it comes to ideal prison fill-up but according to this report you yourself said, so capacity is 3900 people and 3907 is in prisons, it's almost ideal state of progress compared to what a few years ago when we often heard, reading complaints from parents whose children are in prisons about terms, about manner, about treatment, and it's quite safe to praise. Of all the things you've been saying, of course the topic that continues on probation service is closely connected, it's very important, it's just the criteria that aren't, that it doesn't happen that those who need to be inside and those who are inside are supposed to be outside. It's just that we have these criteria and that's the issue of the entire judiciary, it's not just a question of this topic that we're discussing and this report, but that progress is quite certain to praise and I hope it would be more ideal for you to say in a few years' time we have a thousand free seats, I think we'd be a lot better company not to give up the criteria than to become a better society.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95427	Second replica, Reverend Goldie Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95428	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected deputies, in any case, what you have said is a significant part, has been improved when it comes to accommodation and security of space, and in any case it is commendable because many of the problems that were present in the prison system have been solved. But you said very little or almost nothing about, about those who care and that's judicial officers and employees of that system. According to some data available to us, we have far fewer persons employed than should be in the judicial system, which in some ways creates a certain part of uncertainty in that part of the prison system related to the possibility of getting out of the defendants who are in prison and the entire system for safety. And something else you didn't mention, and according to certain knowledge and data there is, which is that there are significant debts related to covering the accounts resulting from the functioning of the prison system, which means that not all those obligations that arise in that system are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95429	The reply corresponds to Deputy Minister Sandra Artuković-Kunšt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95430	Thank you very much. Let's not represent the system as a security threat because it's not like that. Our prison system is securely stable and the number of persons working within the prison system is satisfactory, of course not ideal, but the condition is such that there is no shortage that would be alarming. As regards debt, of course they exist as they exist in view of the state of our budget almost all systems and all parts, but significant savings have been achieved through the system or through a different organisation of what the prison system can bring us, and it has a manufacturing segment. So it's not as black as you wanted to show it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95431	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95432	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I can immediately say at the beginning as is evident from the so far debates and the SDP club because there is already a mood, but not only because of that, we have special reasons, the SDP club will support the report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prison and educational institutions for 2013. And if there is anywhere in any segment of government's work as a whole, and most of it as well as opposition that supports and supports a whole series of legislative solutions that result in just improving the situation in the work of our entire penal system, then that is exactly the penal system. In fact, when someone wants to assess the development of your society, the humanity of people, the relationships in society, then first enough to look at the roads and what kind of roads you have, and in general about the state of human rights and what is the situation in prisons and penitentiarys. Not only that, but I could say that at one general level, but precisely why and what are the reasons that have led to a significant, visible improvement in our prisons and penitentiary for a very short period of time. The matter is, above all, within a good legislative framework, in a completely different criminal policy that this government is leading, which is that prisons and penitentiary facilities are reserved places of the most serious perpetrators of criminal offences, and according to the primary delinquents, according to those perpetrators of easier crimes that society does not react to in this most difficult way than to find measures, those of which we have just talked about, often conditional convictions, and just as we have talked about the trial report and the action of a new institute, although we have also had a trial in one good part of a conditional conviction, a conditional conviction with protective supervision. I'll just remind you, just a few years ago, which earthquake report was presented to us here by the then public defender. He visited every cell, every room in every prison, every penitentiary. What did he find? That the sick were healthy and severe patients, patients with HIV, carriers of the virus, and then severe pulmonary patients. Together, criminals with primary delinquents were toughened. So there was a question of how much, in any case, with all the good fit that Croatia traditionally has in its prison system, we could count on resociation, on education in such conditions as we put into the same room of the primary delinquent, the hard-working criminal. They were then institutions where we could count on that man to be in prison after the prison, that person being a useful member of society, or we sent them there to the school of crime. This is all I'm saying to remind ourselves of how much this really strong progress has been made, first of all, with regard to amending criminal legislation. Today we are more successful in the fight against the production and trafficking of drugs, and so much fear, so much here the debate about it was and what the consequences were, so that we were leading then, that we had the wrong criminal policy most visible in the penal system that had completely atrophed. Well, some prisons and penitentiarys had 150, 160, some even 178% capacity filling. So today with such an amendment to the law, but also with certain and modest conditions, the expansion of capacity here perhaps another half year, a year we will have absolutely one coverage in terms of we no longer have this problem of overcrowding. What else was going on? As early as 2002, we introduced soulcare into our prisons and penitentiary, which is a very important segment, especially for that kind of population that is closed and that requires every comfort. What was done then? These little chapels are only designed to push beds into small spaces. So that segment is also at the expense of how the capacities were narrowed down and the wrong criminal justice policy that drove her to prison and those who certainly shouldn't, which we no longer have in the prison system, led to such a one, to such a catastrophic situation. What should also be noted is that independently, therefore, of every authority that we really have a good fit that works still in modest conditions, but we don't have such phenomena as you have in other prison systems where you have hostage crises, where you have abuses by staff, either of the others that are even more dangerous. Thus, this did not happen even in those most difficult conditions and should therefore be commended by that workable frame and by all statistics and indicators, doing the most stressful work. It's a prison guard's job. We were then and provided them and I see still a significant percentage of the salary allowance due to such difficult working conditions. And I'll still mention those times when the then director of the prison system seems to me in 2005, six years cry out, don't send me any more prisoners, I don't have anywhere to put them. And instead of already beginning to think first of all about amending the Penal Code he is, that man was fired. Anyway, he's been cleared, now maybe the details don't matter in any way. So what I particularly want to point out, which is that it is improved in prisons and health care, that these better conditions in the prison system will certainly preserve the budget of the Republic of Croatia. Let's think of countless, I won't say countless but numerous lawsuits against the Republic of Croatia precisely because we don't meet those criteria that every prisoner must have. So, when the person closed the company's obligations did not stop according to that person, but, in fact, new ones were created. We used to have a criminal act of predicating someone that he was in jail. It was a felony. It's been held in our criminal legislation for many years, but it's kind of out of the ordinary, so you had a medium that wrote in it. We talk here, often you as agents. However, the crime has disappeared. It may be a good thing it's gone, but in any case, one particular trust is required for institutions. Therefore, with regard to those who have carried out their sentence, who have fully carried out it in any way or through parole or which condition of other trials. Why does it matter? Because the state spends huge money, not only to retaliate against these people, but rather to make such persons useful tomorrow as members of society and not to repeat crimes. It's something that we now have with a reform like this where we don't have any more of those prisoners who've committed excruciating crimes we've had before and what's been a big problem for us, but at this stage, the prison system has to reorient or adapt itself to this particular new population, and these are the ones that are sentenced to long-term prison sentences. Of course, conditions for such persons should be completely different, and then again I remember those periods in the 1990s when it is for God's sake forced labour in Croatia, so it is left at will for convicts in prison whether they will work or not. And that work is exactly the best therapy and that's what prisoners use happily if offered, especially one of the good solutions to a long-term prison sentence. Because it has just shown that those who did not want to work the most and in this disciplinary sense were the most trouble with such individuals, and there are examples that have earned hence modest, small money. It's just so much incentive that they sent it to their family. Therefore, by supporting this report on the state and operation of the penitentiary and prisons and educational institutions for 2013, I think that, here is one commendation for the government to do everything and according to this one population, counting that after a sustained prison sentence they will be useful members. Because once they open a prison door for people like that, they wouldn't happen to stay closed to society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95433	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Dear Vesna Scare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95434	Dear colleagues, you may have said a little too much praise, though progress is visible. But compared to this tone of praise, I think we should still be a little more modest. Namely, the Republic of Croatia is the sixth country in a row in overcrowding of the prison system, and from this presentation you have stated, it is evident that you have not seen the Constitutional Court's decision since 16 June of this year, the report on the conditions in the prison system where the Constitutional Court practically refers to the fact that not all the measures to which the Ministry, or the Government, has committed when the Constitutional Court reached its conclusion in 2009 that there is a need to make serious progress in the area of the prison system, particularly in building spatial capacity. The Constitutional Court's decision makes it clear that the government, or ministry, has not acted at all in this regard.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95435	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95436	No one said the situation in the penitentiary was ideal, but denying, so what I wanted to point out and I'm staying with it again because it shows numbers, which has been done since 2003, is the sky and the earth. In 2003, we handed the prison system over to the then government with an international assessment of the example to all transition countries. What did you do during this period of the system? Wrong criminal-law policy? Promise to build a prison, nothing's been made. Everything that was done, 90% of what was done between 2000 and 2003 and now.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95437	Second replica, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95438	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues Antičević-Marinović talked about the achievements let's say you have a special reason to be proud of these achievements. All right, so be it, we accept all these indicators, statistics. But I think if today I was just following that now these three years are somehow worth something that's been achieved, if it's one of the main shifts, then it's not good. You also spoke of human rights, to measure this in the control of that prison system, etc., and how it goes. But what I'm saying is that human rights are also seen at the end of a number of those and containers, that people are looking for food and in the soup kitchens, etc. Of course, in the availability and quality of healthcare. There's something special I want to say about that. Of course, I am one of the first to advocate available and quality health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95439	Look at this fellow Milinkovic, we can't do this, about health care here wasn't about basic exposure. You can't, it's not a replica to have an agent say what comes to his mind but to replicate what's said in the debate. Please read the Rules of Procedure and stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95440	Mr. Vice President, you have abused the Rules of Procedure, not to raise now, but Article 238. You disrespect me, don't let me speak and colleague Anticevic-Marinović will confirm that I am talking about health care. And she said in her debate that health care had improved in the prison system. I in that part wanted to say something. But don't let me talk, thank you very much, I don't want to, I won't talk because you abuse the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95441	I don't abuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95442	No, you did, you used it. My colleague Antičević-Marinović spoke, and that is exactly what I wanted to say. I can't talk to you when you treat me incorrectly as the head of this session.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95443	You will get a full two minutes again if you want to talk about health care in the prison system, not general health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95444	And I can talk about health care throughout, and I'm advocating the health care of all the citizens of Nice Ones who aren't at the level of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95445	Now, you can't do that in the context of this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95446	But all right, if you're interrupting me, you've disrupted my concept, of course, it was probably your intention, and in that sense I'm giving up my replica. I thank you, and you have injured the Rules of Procedure under Article 238. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95447	Please contact the Constitution Committee. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club – The parties of work will speak for the respected Mladen Novak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95448	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Deputy Minister. I must admit that I remained a little confused when I listened to the debate of the first club about the retail ideal conditions and conditions in Croatian prisons and penitentiary facilities. On the other hand, I can absolutely agree with what she said in the opening statement of the deputy minister that the situation is improving, trying, doing things. Even in addition to this report, the Deputy Minister spoke about the actions taken during 2014, if I am not mistaken, 11 July was mentioned as one of those dates of realization of something. And we can say that the overbooking of Croatian prisons continues to exist, whether in a significantly or slightly smaller volume than it was. There are also undeniable effects of the trial that we were talking about earlier on incarceration or overbooking. But about that, I say right away I don't agree with this way and I'm not into it, but let's say you have in all the media the Constitutional Court of Government - "Don't torture prisoners!" It's a text published in the paper. I don't agree with that, this is a little bit bombistic and not to say it with the goal of being as usual to sell newspapers, to be attractive. But I agree with Mrs. Skare-Ozbolt, who has warned of the Constitutional Court's decision of 12 June this year, which warns of the situation in Croatian prisons and penitentiary facilities and notes that the conditions in those prisons, in some of these prisons, are still problematic and are not at the level of what should be. We also have a European Court of Human Rights which, about 10 days ago, approximately, even less, made two judgments. One goes to say in favour of our judiciary, the other finds that one inmate from Pula is truly deprived of elementary human rights. This is what the European Court of Human Rights found. That you can't say that it's now that I don't know inventing hot water, we're citing something someone told us, so we should react to it, this is a fact that stands. There is also information in the media that I do not claim to be true but worth more than $53 million in the debt of the Croatian prison system. That's not exactly a negligible number anyway. Then, taking into account that the report we had not long ago in front of us by the State Attorney's Office, which stands at 134 million 692 thousand 196 kuna on page 97 of that report, it says that the prisoners sued the Republic of Croatia for inadequate accommodation or lack of conditions in those prison institutions and that the amount of RH is due to pay them. If this were put all over the years, if these amounts were added up, I'm afraid it wouldn't be unquestionable to build that prison that I think has given up in Sibenik, even though I believe you colleagues that it's probably all been a lot, a lot too high and that they were probably models of the style of painting the tunnel in question, but it's obvious that we're missing prison facilities. You said respected deputies that it worked a lot to raise the quality of prisoner accommodation in Croatian prisons and penitentiary, but I would ask if it might have gone to the staff's expense because, according to some data, it took away some space that was converted into prison space. How, my predecessor here spoke of the great contribution of employees to this system of responsibility, of stress, of the mass of what I sign. But is it true that in the large part these people have not yet received the uniforms that belong to them but that they work in some of the old uniforms before? Is it true that all prison and penitentiary managers have 24 hours of official vehicles available in a way since 1993? I'd also like to know if there's an analysis or some record of the arrival of these managers out of business time, which would actually require those cars for 24-hour use. On the other hand, some of the travel costs have been lifted, some have been significantly reduced, some have been lifted by sanitary nodes, so when you look at one, one part of the story then it might actually have a positive effect but on the other hand, what are we paying for it? The number of prisoners has been reduced, this is the same published data, but the stricter suits are still re-tracted. So those who are the most problematic are still over-retracted or overbooked and on that point it's obvious that we miss that we haven't done enough, I'm not saying that nothing has been done, but has not been done enough. I don't know if the exact information that's been published in the media is as accurate as we usually call it, the estimated employment, or the total number of 2279 law enforcement officers, and that only 1650 are currently doing it. The data itself also tells us that these people who are doing an extremely responsible job as a colleague before me said that they too are forced to work and overtime, but also probably additionally with a reduced number of people on shifts and how this usually goes with extra pressure. There's another detail that I got from the field, which is that the penitentiary, or to be honest, is that I can't find that part, the penitentiary, here it is, the problem in the enhanced care and supervision department of the Turopolje Educational Institute, and it has the most problematic minors. The department doesn't have a bathroom and in the rooms, so there's a problem during the night when they need to make an emergency. A judicial officer lets them out, which resulted in more than one attempt to escape the same. Since it is a juvenile institution or an institution for the care of juvenile delinquents, I am afraid that this problem is even greater. And from this, it turns out that the situation isn't nearly as pink as it's tried to show in the first club that's been discussing this subject, but the report itself we'll accept, given that everything inside is not the opposite, there's no indication of what it is, which would deviate from what I've been telling you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95449	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First respected Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95450	Well, it's very short. That we understand each other in absolute terms, nor did I say in absolute terms that it was ideal. And whatever your colleagues said, it stands, but you need to know where we started and what the situation was. So, not who I'm assessing as she was, but read the report that's been repeated for years, the report by the occupier who peeked, I say, in every room and what he found there. Those were the things you needed. At a temperature of -7 there was no glass at all, with one blanket and that wet blanket were immobilized, it was neither provided for moving ones. I'm not saying that there are still big problems, but in such a small period of time, we must all agree that a lot has been done and that we are all fighting together and in the future when it comes to the penal and prison system and to ensure additional resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95451	The line matches the esteemed Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95452	I have to admit that I really don't understand you. You have these headlines in the media, the Constitutional Court of Government: don't torture the prisoners. You have a fact about the 53 million kuna debt of the prison system, you have the likely possibility that... the systems, those facilities, will be left without heating, without, I don't know, electricity, given this debt that's been shown and now you're telling me what happened in 2003 and moving on to it. Not this 2013 report. We're not talking about the 2003 period here, we're talking about the 2013 report. The esteemed deputy when she explained even this report included data from 2014 and, in fact, I welcome it, but we can't keep dragging what happened in 2003. This is a real situation, and unfortunately it's not a good condition. It's to repair and all the honor of going towards the better, to do something, to see the pawn, but also by now, let's just brag and pretend that we don't see all these problems that exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95453	Second replica, the esteemed Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95454	Dear counterpart Novak, you mentioned the lack of financial resources in the prison system in your debate and we are aware of this, however, it should be said that the current business of the prison system for 2013 was positive, so there was a surplus of revenue over expenditure of €2.5 million. However, the problem is those deficits of financial resources that are... years ago. Therefore, in 2011, there was a lack of revenue over expenditure of 45 million, 2012 59 million and this was transferred in 2013 and when it is compensated with these 2.5 million surpluses again remains 56.5 million higher expenditures compared to revenues and this was transferred in 2014. We will see how the current business will be in 2014 when we talk about it and see if things are improving or if the situation remains complex.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95455	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95456	Thank you very much. So you basically just confirmed what I said. I also said that this is the current situation, nothing else. The fact is that I also warned about the funds that Croatia must pay on the basis of the lawsuit, it is also a fact, it is not something that I, I don't know, I invented or we heard somewhere that doesn't matter. But I agree, I also have to talk about what's wrong, and it's bad, and in the end we're here to warn about the situation as it is, or what should be fixed, but the fact is also that people working in the prison system are warning that some of these solutions are being implemented at the expense of them and their working conditions and before that we can't close our eyes. It's a reality. Look, if you've taken the prison officials from a sanitary node, then they don't have it anymore, and these are working conditions, and that's also the subject of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95457	In the name of the HDZ Club, the esteemed Ivan Shantek will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95458	Dear Vice President, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We have a really detailed report on the state and operation of the penitentiary and prison for 2013. All aspects of the criminal sanctions enforcement system are explained in detail and there are also difficulties that this system is going through on a daily basis. However, it remains unclear why it ceased in Chapter 1.17 of this report, which speaks of the prisoner's claims for compensation for damages, more specifically, about the amounts of their claims from the Republic of Croatia. The 2011 report mentions the amount of their claims of $86.9 million, while reports for 2012 and '13 mention the amount of their claims. Only says that during 2013 412 claims were received for compensation by prisoners. The most claims for compensation were made for the conditions of accommodation, which is what counterpart Novak was talking about. Those proceedings are ongoing and... the applications submitted will be decided in the jurisdiction of the court. So, Croatian courts will consider it, however, as far as I have knowledge that the problem has gone beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia, I think even that the international court, or court in Strasbourg, has spoken of it. Chapter 22.9 of the conclusion, the assessment of the state of security states the need to amortise negative effects, objectively present in terms of space, accommodation, architectural solutions of criminal authorities and the lack of professional staff, and in particular because of these restrictions, is also a lack of occupational activity of prisoners who are very important to all those who are in prison or in the maintenance of prison sentences. Furthermore, apart from the development and management of human resources, additional and continuous investments in the form of raising the material and technical level and the equipment of the criminal authorities are needed. That's what the report says. The following text states that 1,207 jobs with 4,004 executives in the establishment units of the Administration of the Prison System have been systematised. However, it points out that in all departments there are unfulfilled jobs which cause prison execution operations to be carried out throughout the observed period under particularly difficult conditions, which further contributes to the re-accountation of criminal authorities and the financial constraints of the state budget, here is the report. So, in the report itself, what it says is that when I am able to speak in this conference about the prison system I keep pointing out, I pointed out last year, and that is that the fundamental problem of the prison system is that it is only when problems arise and the problems usually become such that they are simply difficult to get out of these problems afterwards. My experience of what I watched and observed to put out the fire, however the spark continues to quiet. Chapter 4 of this report, which relates to the business of the criminal authorities, shows the lack of income and receipts for the coverage in the next period of more than 56 million kuna, while the outstanding liabilities to the burden of the state budget are over 36 million kuna and are constantly increasing. There is no colleague Novak here who has spoken to the prison system officials and who have spoken to him, but when they are spoken to, then it is known that around the second half of the year there are already problems with supply, especially energy. Here we have seen it all the way here, and it says in Chapter 53, which speaks of the supervision of the Office of the Ombudsman, and it is said during 2013, according to the real possibilities of the State budget, the rebalancing is an increased means of functioning of the entire prison system worth 28 million 995 thousand kuna, of which 14 million kunas are intended to settle the costs of food and energy. So in the second half of the year, the prison system has been in a situation especially in the last three months that they simply stopped delivering energy, and also the food suppliers threatened them not to deliver food. This is a major chapter because it says who's been overseeing the work of the prison system in the Republic of Croatia. It is important to note that all supervisors, starting with the Ombudsman's Office, the National Prevention Mechanism and the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman Demeanor, had almost the same objections, and related to the conditions of accommodation, re-preparation, inaccessibility of sanitary facilities, the behaviour of officials in certain situations, the modest possibility of carrying out various activities of prisoners, the lack of treatment officers, insurance and health care. Further to the report in Chapter 7, the Ministry of Justice has drawn up an Action Plan to improve the prison system of the Republic of Croatia since 2009-2014 and was delivered to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and adopted by the Croatian Parliament in July 2009. The Action Plan for the improvement of the prison system of the Republic of Croatia has defined the necessary measures to improve the situation in the prison system and its compliance with European standards in such a way as to require an increase in the accommodation of the conditions of prisoners, the new employment of prison workers, the modernisation of the necessary equipment. Activities on the implementation of this plan shall be reported in the report or are the same as they were in the previous few years. The action plan here foresees that, given the likely abandonment of the construction of a penitentiary in Sibenik, there are a number of small changes that will thus increase the accommodation capacity. To immediately on the next page, it would appear that the capacity of the Penitentiary in Glina has changed from 716 to 607 places, which is a decrease of 109 seats or 19%. Part of the reduced capacity refers to the premises that are used to carry out the tight measures, and... accommodation facilities, and due to the permanence of the space capacity are reduced by 76 seats in the boarding school which is incoherent and needs adaptation. So now the Glina Penitentiary has 716 and 607 seats, and it has been built to accommodate 420 prisoners in accordance with all applicable regulations and standards. I would just like to remind here of last year's debate that was held in the third month of this year when we had a report for 2011 and 2012 that this very old boarding house in Glina, in the debate, was highlighted as an increase in the prison system. In the end, I'd like to ask, and what about that elevator at the prison hospital? According to the 2012 report, the start of the reconstruction of the prison in Zagreb is the beginning of the reconstruction process and IPA TAIB in 2012, 2013 is the year of support for the prison system and its implementation is expected in 2013. The national budget for 2013 provided 600,000 kuna for the construction of elevators at the Prison Hospital in Zagreb, and the implementation of those projects will meet the findings of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia in relation to the adjustment of the capacity of the prison in Zagreb, the needs of the prisoners to the standards of the Council of Europe and the practices of the European Court of Human Rights. Here is the meaning of building an elevator in Zagreb's Prison Hospital at one end of the city of Zagreb. The Constitutional Court will be given the order in relation to the adjustment of the accommodation capacity of Zagreb and Remetinac on the other end of the city of Zagreb. In this report for 2013 it would appear that the funds were planned but not implemented since they were most often and cancelled since there was a lack of insured financial resources, here we now hear that it is working this year, but I have not heard it, I may not have listened well to whether the elevator is finished or not. As regards the construction and reconstruction of Zagreb prisons and prisons and prisons in Sibenik, which were the most significant part of the mentioned action plan for the improvement of the prison system, it is noted that construction and equipment in the plan are needed in respect of the penitentiary and prisons in Sibenik, the activities envisaged in 2014 and the '15th year, noting that some of the funds will be provided by the Council of Europe Development Bank. Well, I think it's a few years old and it's going from year to year and it's all prolonging. An international contract has been concluded between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank for a project to build up and rebuild prisons in Zagreb, which is somewhat slower than planned dynamics. Mostly because of these objective reasons and which should not have a significant impact on the final completion of planned reconstruction and construction. Here's how it literally says that report, so I think after you read it, you don't know what you'd actually think. Normally, the reasons must also be objective, as can be different reasons not to be punished. It should be pointed out that the activity at the end of the design phase is expected to be open during the current year for the contractors of the first phase of work under which the construction of the prison will be carried out. Well, I don't quite understand how after the completion of the project, the construction of the prison will begin immediately without any permits but I believe I will get an answer. Here, finally, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I would like to say that this report is truly detailed and that everyone who reads it carefully will actually see what is the real state of the prison system in the Republic of Croatia. I hope the minister read it, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95459	On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, Grubisic and Cain reported, there are none, so they lose the right to discuss this agenda point. Deputy Minister Artuković Kunst also called for the word. I'm asking for a pay phone. If you've come forward on behalf of the motionary, then you'll have to go to the pay phone. You can't replicate a representative, so then you can only do it on behalf of the motionary.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95460	Thank you very much. I just wanted to answer these two specific questions about the elevator at the prison hospital. So it's true that we had two contests, two of us had to cancel out for reasons that, given the public procurement, were present here. The final contest has been adopted and it's okay. Right now as we're saying this, right now procedures are being done, or construction activities are being built on the elevator, and that's the improvement that the Constitutional Court has referred us to, and we're going to realize it. And as for the reconstruction, that is, the construction of the prison in Sibenik, that is the story we gave up on, we have already cited it several times because the project was also in its very beginning reclassified and pre-financed for the state of the budget of the Republic of Croatia and the part in which we should participate. And as for Remetinca, negotiations and arrangements are under way, of course, on how we will properly formulate this project, given the fact that we now have a different availability of funds, i.e. the availability of energy recovery funds which are not then loans but are structural funds, and then their availability is much better, i.e. we do not have to repay the loan, we do not have to pay interest, etc. So we'll go with... To reach agreement that the cheaper we pass, or that the Republic of Croatia in this improvement of the prison systems will not be more burdensome for the budget than is necessary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95461	Thank you. On behalf of the DC Club, the New Wave and Reformer will speak to the respected Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95462	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Deputy Minister, Your Honor, This report is indeed detailed, however, it does not answer those key questions, shows clear trends but does not answer those key questions, precisely the one that has been asked by the Constitutional Court in its decision recently. So there are 14 prisons in the Republic of Croatia, 7 penitentiary and among them is a prison hospital in Zagreb. When we talk about the prison system today, most often we talk about filling in all 14 prisons that absolutely cross the accommodation facilities of the prison system especially in some prisons such as Osijek, Dubrovnik and Zagreb. In parallel, the Republic of Croatia is among the first 6 Member States of the europe Council, which has a capacity capacity of more than 100%. And that's what it is, and it doesn't come from today, it's been continuous for years. And I would now go back to this Constitutional Court decision because we're practically reading more concrete things from it than from the very report on the prison system. So by letter dated 4 March 2014 this year, the Constitutional Court asked the Ministry of Justice to show whether the ministry acted according to the 2008 and 2009 decisions, especially for example. of 2009 as it was approaching this year the end of the 5-year period within which the Government of the Republic of Croatia should adjust the capacity of prisons in Zagreb to the needs of accommodation for persons deprived of liberty. And then, in its letter of March this year, the Ministry stated concretely, it gave a concrete answer that the building building in Zagreb would allow accommodation for an additional 382 persons deprived of freedom, that the building was built up, that the project was partly financed by the Council of Europe Development Bank, and that part of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia and that the process of closing the financial structure was under way, which depends on the beginning of works and that the beginning of works was expected during 2014, and that the construction of the facility was completed in about three and a half years. So this has not already been followed by the Constitutional Court's decision. The Constitutional Court then asked the Government why it had not acted on the Constitutional Court's order since November 2010 because it had not implemented the projects imposed on it in those decisions, and the ministry also replied that there was a lack of funds in the budget and that it would obviously not be able to meet those obligations set out by the Constitutional Court, which is the construction of a new, another prison. We now hear that since the construction of a new prison in Croatia, at least the one in Sibenik, has given up due to a lack of financial resources and now we are spinning again in the same story. The number of prisoners, especially those for serious crimes, has been growing, the overcrowding of prisons remains present, and within 10 years of the time when the first projects for the construction of prisons are, for example. Nothing was provided in Sibenik. And that's the problem, so obviously we haven't been able to secure the money to build another prison in 10 years. That's the problem. So like other places, so when it comes to the prison system, everything falls to financial resources. And now that's the absurd, that we can get financial resources from the European Union, but that we are unable to secure that participation of funds from the state budget needed to close the financial structure. The Constitutional Court therefore set deadlines for the Ministry of Justice to take into account the protection of human rights of prisoners. This seems to have failed to respect the five years left by the Constitutional Court as a deadline. The number of lawsuits before the European Court of Human Rights in respect of the very living conditions of prisoners, the number of lawsuits is growing and Croatia will be dropped still with great damages to pay for this very reason. Therefore, this report is detailed, shows some progress, we cannot say that there is no progress, but in these key things obviously due to the lack of funds we will be thrown out again and with criticism from the European Union and criticism of the Council of Europe that monitors the situation in the prison system in Croatia, we will still be present very high on the scale of overcrowding of prisons, which is what is a serious problem here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95463	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Igor Coleman has come forward. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Dear Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95464	Thank you, dear Vice President. At first, I will say that this report is indeed thorough, meaningful, and what I particularly appreciate is the fact that all the numerical indicators are shown by birth criteria. The report points out three words: the chronic problems of the Croatian prison system and that is the transfer of the criminal authorities, which is too small a number of prison officials and tenants, and these are of course limited financial resources. When it comes to overcrowding of prisons, the highest level of overcrowding has been reported, as we have heard in a series of discussions so far, in 2010, when accommodation facilities were scheduled for 3351 persons, and the actual capacity was 5165 people, so as much as 54% higher. In 2010, the possibility of accepting prisoners to 3771 persons was increased, and this capacity is still being held today, so today we have the same capacities. At the same time, what is important is that the number of prisoners has been steadily reduced since 2010, so in 2011 to 5084 prisoners, 2012 to 4741 and 2013, therefore the reporting year to 4352 prisoners, and thus the problem of overcrowding has been somewhat mitigated. Therefore, this certain reduction in the number of prisoners contributed most to changes in the criminal legislation, therefore not to increasing capacity, thus increasing the possibility of giving alternative penalties through changes in the criminal legislation, the possibility of giving parole, but the early release of prisoners from serving the sentence, and what contributed most to that reduction was the implementation of the trial procedure. However, regarding this reduction in overcrowding, one important point should be pointed out, which is that in 2013 compared to 2012, and even compared to 2011, it has been significantly increased and I will point out that, even by 23%, the number of prisoners in investigative prisons, which could be reflected in an increase in the number of prisoners in a year or two. In other words, therefore, this trend of reducing the number of prisoners should nevertheless be viewed conditionally, in that context, as I have said. When we talk about another problem that has been apostrophe in this report, so I have to mention in 2010 too few prison officials and tenants as this breaking year, or the year when problems in the prison system have culminated. So at the end of that year, we had the smallest number of employees in the system, that is, tenants. All 2511 according to, say, 3438 how many were scheduled for systematicization. In 2011, the number of employees was increased to 2630, in 2012 to 2652, and in 2013 there was a further increase to 2686 employees but it was still for 1318 employees or even 33% less than the number of employees and tenants who were systematised. Such a large number of employees compared to the number of systematicized ones naturally have a huge number of overtime hours, so I will illustrate it. So it's about 300 thousand overtime hours paid for by more than 17 million kunas. This increase in the number of employees in the prison system is mostly related to the reorganisation of the Customs Administration. So, a certain surplus staff from the Customs Administration last year was permanently transferred to the prison system. In this way, an extra person was taken care of in the Customs Administration, and in the prison system a more favourable ratio was reached between the number of prisoners and officials, i.e. the householder. In 2010, 3.45 prisoners came to one official, while in 2013, the number was reduced to 2.64 prisoners. So one important discharge of prison officials was achieved. It is certain that the improvement of this ratio of prisoners and judicial officers is one of the most important assumptions for a higher quality and greater efficiency of the prison system. Of course, that should and should be expected to result in a reduction in the number of complaints made by prisoners on the conduct of prison officials. In 2013, prisoners filed a total of 252 complaints, the largest number of which is 123 complaints, or we can say any other concerns actually to complaints about the conduct of prison officials. It is clear that improving the conditions in the prison system leads to a reduction in the dissatisfaction of prisoners, a reduction in extreme behaviour, and a reduction in the overall security risk in the prison system. And I'll back that up with the following data from the report. Thus, in 2013 compared to 2012, there was a decrease in the number of attempted suicides of prisoners by 23% and suicides carried out neither in 2012 nor in 2013. Furthermore, the number of self-harms was reduced by more than 45%. The number of prisoners who refuse prison food has been reduced. By more than 30%, the number of tight procedures against prisoners has been reduced for serious crimes committed, and as much as 55% have been reduced in the course of the sentence. Of course, a number of prison workers contribute to both the easier and more high-quality performance of the work of the officers themselves, and we know that the work of prison officials is extremely difficult and extremely stressful and that I will try to support the data on their illnesses. Therefore, in 2013 there were as many as 940 prisoners left behind and the average duration of the stay was almost 7 months. So it's really about the long-term pains of prison officials. And let me get this straight. This government can say, despite some discussions that did not go into this, it has really done a lot for the prison system, and it is on its way to say that I may have quite a harshly abandoned system to create an orderly system. So first of all, the problem of overcrowding of prison has been solved. At this point in the system is 3900 prisoners, 3907 as the deputy minister said, and so many are actually prison facilities. So if we stick to those numbers, then we really can't talk about overcrowding anymore. This has been the most contributed by the changes in the pension system, above all by the major affirmation of the testing institute. And the other thing, a very good move is to increase the number of employees in the prison system, which significantly improved the conditions for one better-quality approach, one better-quality work with prisoners. But of course that increase in the number of employees has also contributed to disbanding prison officials, or to facilitating their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95465	We have one replica, dear Ivan Shantek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95466	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you mentioned here that about 33% is less employed than by systematicizing jobs and you mentioned overtime. So 300,000 overtime hours is about 17 million kunas. However, my information is not to pay overtime but to give employees days off, precisely because of the state budget situation. Thus, this vicious circle increases further. So they're using their days off, so there's even less of them, so they need to be compensated in some way again. It's all piled up and going in some kind of cycles that don't make sense to me. I'm going to say again and again what I'm saying is that someone needs to seriously deal with the prison system and this vicious circle in which we're constantly breaking up, which is that the prison system is provided with adequate resources from the state budget so that he can work in accordance with those obligations arising from the Law on the execution of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95467	Replication response, esteemed Nadia Jelesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95468	I agree with you fellow Shantek that there are still too few employees in the prison system but you will have to admit that the good move made by the government last year, so that a part of the extra employees from the Customs Administration system just pulled into the prison system, increased the number of employees and made it easier for the employment situation in the prison system.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95469	The last individual debate, the esteemed Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95470	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected deputy minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So this report is really well-conceived and contains a large number of data that generally gives a good insight into the state of the prison system. As the deputy minister in the introduction summed up a summary of the report, I would therefore not repeat it but rather limit myself to certain parts of the report in which I might still like to see more information. So I might like to see more information about the treatment of prisoners with infectious chronic diseases, such as hepatitis C or HIV. The report therefore finds that the treatment of chronic hepatitis C in 6 prisoners was conducted in the Department of Internal Medicine of the Prison Hospital in 2013, therefore, in the course of the treatment of chronic hepatitis C in 6 prisoners, therefore pre-treatment was initiated in another 5. It is therefore mentioned that there was an education programme, a test of 500 prisoners on hepatitis was carried out. But I don't know if I missed it, but I'd like to see the information on whether there are other patients besides those who have been in hospital treatment, other patients with infectious diseases who are located with healthy patients and what conditions they are placed in. Namely, as has already been said today in the debate, the Ombudsman's report for years indicated that prisoners with severe infectious diseases were placed with healthy people in hygiene conditions who did not provide adequate protection for healthy prisoners from infection. I believe that the situation has now improved, but precisely because this report has shown it, I think that maybe we should find that out now, so there aren't any of those prisoners who are situated with a healthy population, or hence a little more detailed review of this problem. I'm saying, I'm stressing precisely because of those remarks made by the attorney general. One part of the report that I would also like here if it were a little more detailed is the part that relates to each other's conflicts of prisoners. Although I do not have direct insight into the work of prison institutions, I would say that special attention should also be paid to these mutual relationships of prisoners. In fact, as it is a population that is more prone to clearly delinquent behavior, it is certainly possible to expect the conflict and attempt to commit the crimes of one prisoner to another. This report therefore discusses the mutual conflict of prisoners, if I have read it well because it is quite extensively on over 100 pages, so this conflict is talked about in the reasons of the use of the means of coercion, so it is said that in 13 cases it was the use of the means of coercion to prevent these conflicts. It could therefore be concluded that such cases were only 13, which would be excellent. So I'm afraid there's a big black number. I am saying this because I am strongly convinced that the basic purpose of punishment must be resociation and rehabilitation. In order for that purpose to be fulfilled, the convicts themselves must gain confidence in the system, so they must know that the system works and that the system always and in any case protects the weaker, to protect victims of criminal offences. If the prisoners themselves, especially those who have found themselves in prison do not first or second time gain that faith but rather believe that the system does not function under controlled conditions, I am afraid that such an experience can be extremely counterproductive to their behavior when it comes out again. At worst, I'm convinced it isn't, but I'm saying in the worst case, it can even happen that prisons are a kind of gladiatorial academy that can even have a very negative impact on people who first enter the prison system. I would therefore like to see more detailed information in the report on what seemed to prevent the mutual conflict of prisoners, whether prisoners are separated on the criterion that, for example, delinquents who are convicted of crimes against life and the body are not being placed with others, such as those who are due to certain crimes in the area of traffic or similar, what are the measures of monitoring the behaviour of prisoners when they are without direct supervision of guards, which are measures to prevent violent behaviour applied, etc. Here's the thing about this, I'd also like to refer to a part of the report on the prisoner's complaints. Therefore, complaints were adopted exclusively in the section relating to prisoner accommodation. So most of the complaint was about the actions of the clerk, 123 complaints, and none were found justified. And that's mostly what they're saying about these complaints. Just because of what I was saying, for reasons of maintaining confidence in the system, I find it justified to ask that future reports contain more information and even individual information on these complaints without a clear mention of the name. I think it would strengthen the trust of the public and the convicts themselves in the prison system. I'm not saying this because I think there's something hiding or hiding, but I think a higher level of transparency can only do good. It is certainly necessary to give recognition to all workers in the prison system, as counterpart Jelash said before me, it is obvious that there is a shortage of employees, that employees are overloaded. It is absolutely certain that this job is extremely stressful and that this report shows that these people in that prison system are giving them really, extremely much in their work and I stress they really need to give them credit and express their gratitude. We hope to be able to properly valorize it in a material way. But what we can of course do is to support this report because it really does, given what it shows how they worked and how the workers in the entire system acted, it is justified to adopt it. I, too, would support, and given these remarks, I hope that the next year's report will be appreciated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95471	The final address of Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunšt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95472	Thank you. So it's objectively a report so it couldn't be supported and it's a simple fact and I'm glad it was recognized. What is most important is to recognize the trend that is constant and that has led to us no longer having a problem with overcrowding prisons and I will have to explicitly say that we will not be on the list of countries that are facing this problem and that we are not the country in which the number of lawsuits relative to the situation in prisons is growing, on the contrary, this number is falling. There was also a reference to the issue of investigative prisons. Amendments have been made to the Criminal Procedure Act, which restricts the situation related to the prison of investigation, so we do not expect an increase here, given the normal intervention. It was about systematicization and the number of jobs, of course the systematization was one thing and it was done according to the model and the principle that was related to the situation before. Systematization requires that it be systematized and will of course be done. It is very well noted, and it would ask that if a criterion is possible, so look at the number of employees, or persons working in the prison system in relation to the number of prisoners. And when those two categories compare, then we're in relative balance, and I think that's how it should be emphasized. It has been said here that the prison system is engaged in part-time activities and that it is occasionally focused, but it is certainly not true. We work intensively within our ministry and beyond. So, not only the prison system administration but also the criminal justice administration, so probationary services are all segments that circle these results and have actually led to them and it is an opportunity to thank all colleagues and all those who work in this segment. So we've come to the conclusion that the Republic of Croatia has been derived from a circle of those countries that are problematic about overcrowding of prisons. It is not the solution to increase the budgetary resources, and if that were the solution then it might have happened in some previous years. The solution is quite different to form both a penal policy and a whole prison system, and a relationship to prisoners and then get to these results which are certainly not random. There were also talk of overtime, overtime are records, they are paid, there are circumstances in which because of the increased number and this is not happening in a straight, linear manner, and that it is known in advance, but in certain situations if it is done, the redistribution of employees and they may also get the days off at the time when it was possible, but otherwise this overtime will certainly be paid to them. And what might also be important, you know, when you start introducing order, then there are always those who oppose it, etc. That's what we're actually ready for. But in any case, we will persist and we are confident that the next year's report will follow this trend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95473	I thank the Deputy Minister. I thank all the MPs who participated in this debate. We'll be done with the work now. We'll continue Tuesday at 9.30. We will discuss the final proposal of the Law to confirm the agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area. Thank you very much and goodbye. Session interrupted at 13.35 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-05-0.u95474	Report on the state and operation of penitentiary and prisons and educational institutions for 2013. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: - A report on the state and operation of penitentiary offices, prisons and educational institutions for 2013. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 107 votes in favour, five abstentions and nothing against the proposed conclusion. Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, good morning. We continue with the plenary session of the Croatian Assembly according to established agenda. It is now up to us - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 735 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia.
