ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u77720	Looking for a club? Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u77721	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication Rules of Procedure, and given the preparation process for the upcoming elections for the European Parliament, I would like to request a 15-minute recess for the HDZ Club session.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u77722	I'm setting a break to 10.20. It's 10.05. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 10.20 HOURS]] After a break requested by the HDZ club, I call on a fellow milkmaker to state the club's position.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u77724	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. It is well known that all Croatian voters are invited to attend the European Parliament elections in two days, I would say in which Croatia is turning a new page of its history because it first elects 11 deputies with a full mandate in the European Parliament. I have no intention of talking about the events that followed the last days of the pre-election campaign, my intention here is not even to determine the guilt and to determine the inability of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which was not prepared to face the disastrous consequences experienced by Slavonia, nor was I intended to speak of the responsibility of neither the Government nor the State Administration for Protection and Rescue because we witnessed how Croatian citizens have outgrown what the Croatian government was able to do and they have done much more with their engagement than they were able to make our official institutions. But my intention is to talk about something else that is important for these elections, which is to appoint an Ethics Commission to monitor and monitor the implementation of election campaigns. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia has made a decision to appoint members of the Ethics Commission where, according to its position, the president of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts is also the chairman of that commission, and members are named on the proposal of parliamentary parties. Thus, the majority coalition of the political parties of the SDP of Croatia, the HNS of liberal Democrats, IDS, HSU, SDSS, the Bosniak Democratic Party of Croatia and the sustainable development of Croatia proposed three candidates, Dr Snježana Banović, Dr Goran Čulara and Dr Snježana Vasiljevic, all of them from Zagreb became members of the Ethics Commission on the proposal of the majority coalition. For the sake of interest of the Croatian public, I will quote only Article 49. The law on selecting members in the European Parliament says: "The Ethics Commission has a president and 6 members of which are proposed by the majority and opposition political parties in accordance with the party composition of the Croatian Parliament. The members of the commission are appointed by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, on the basis of a proposal from parliamentary political parties, in the order of prominent public figures who are not candidates in the elections and are not members of any political party." In the proposal of the majority coalition there is the name of the elected Snježana Vasiljevic or appointed to the Ethics Commission, who is a member of the main Assembly of the Serbian Democratic Party and president of the County Organisation and the same party for the city of Zagreb. I suppose it is possible except that she had to make a statement before the appointment that she was not a member of any political party I suppose it is possible that coalition partners did not know that she was a senior official of one party. Because the coalition doesn't know much, I wouldn't be surprised if they didn't know this either. But I cannot believe that the president and candidate on that list of the same party, or vice president, parliamentary representative and chairman of the Outer-political Committee, Mr Milorad Pupovac was not aware that his member with whom you can otherwise see in the media was often propagating his party's work to become a member of the Ethics Committee. Ethics or morals of the ruling coalition and in this case are seen in its best light. And we are also asking for the legality of these elections and for the importance of the European Parliament's elections that the ruling coalition be immediately shown about this fact, that it asks the Constitutional Court on the basis of data it has to change the composition of the ethical commission. Because neither we participants in this process nor the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will be able to believe that you are morally and ethically carrying out elections in order to be bound by Croatian laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u77725	Thank you very much. You sent a message, I expect we'll... You've also sent a message to the coalition and I can't tell you right now because I have no idea that any member who's proposed or a member is a member of a party. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You said yours, no more. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Can I get you anything you want? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u77726	I'm sorry, just an explanation. You influence the legality of choice if you choose people in the course that you are legally forbidden to choose. And we're asking you because you're proposing these members to withdraw such a proposal. If I wasn't loud enough, maybe you're now...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u77727	Well, you sent us a message, and we'll consider it. Well, I can't tell you at this point, give you an answer. ... Well, you said yours, we'll be clear about it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, we can't give you an answer at the same time. Comrade Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u77728	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I don't know, I'm in doubt asking for a break so the HDSB club can be seen on this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u77729	You can't ask for a break about the same thing you didn't ask for a break when it was a topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u77730	Or to ask for a very spotful and quick check of these facts and to amend the Constitutional Court's decision to form such an ethical committee that is not ethical but unethical. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79322	My colleagues and colleagues have a good day. We're moving on with the session. We will discuss: - Proposal for a Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Attorneys, first reading, P.Z. 668; The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this Act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. The opening proposal will be explained by Justice Minister Mr Orsat Milenic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79323	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President, distinguished MPs and MPs. So this is actually the continuation of yesterday's debate on areas and courts' seats. The state's attorneys follow the same logic, which means that we would now significantly decrease the number, so from 33 we would go to 21. What's important about this, I'll say right away, we talked a lot yesterday about Velika Gorica, so how do we solve the matter of the court, and we'll solve the issue of the state's attorney's office. Well, here's the thing, if that question opens, yesterday as we agreed, we'll sit down and talk about it. As for other specificities, we don't predict them, so it's going to be a very similar network. What's important here might be one distinction. We talked a lot yesterday about why we're doing this reorganization of courts. One thing is, let's say, mobility. The same applies to state attorneys, however, it exists to a greater extent now because of their hierarchical structure. Different loads and the same thing as courts happen at the state's attorney's offices. Better resource and personnel management absolutely the same. Not only that, but we plan to allow the transfer of officials primarily from the state's attorney's office to courts primarily from courts to the state's attorney's office because there is a huge lack of official staff in the state's attorney's offices. And we in the whole structure and in the whole network have enough. So that's one extra thing. However, when we talk about state attorneys, we also need to take another element, which is that because of the nature of their work, it is always better when they are concentrated in one place, when they are separated from a smaller environment and when they are located in a larger environment. Simply then it is better done, then it can be treated better when there is one distance from the local environment and compared to the criminal cases but maybe even primarily compared to the civil ones. Also, this will allow specialization. What we were saying about the courts here might be even more necessary because you have a much smaller structure in many places. You have two, three deputies somewhere. Now one works civil and civil objects can differ terribly. This way when they're in one place more they'll go to the debate but they'll be able to specialize more in one or the other. So, I'm saying I won't be long with the debate because we talked a lot about it yesterday. All those arguments that we made here yesterday are a team bigger and mainly with this need actually concentration in the larger environments, moving from the local environments, simply so the system will be more operational and better functioning. This is something that also supports the structure of the state's attorney's office because they also see advantages here from easier supervision until I say simpler treatment. So here, I'm here for all the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79324	Thank you very much, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs. On behalf of the club of Independent Representatives Damir Cain. Excuse me. Here you go. It was a replica. Nenad dances.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79325	I thank the esteemed vice president. Mr. Minister, I support your request to restructure the judiciary and bring it closer to the citizens. However, in a country where the need for a state's attorney is increasing, you are reducing the number of courts of the state's attorney's office from 33 to 21 which I do not think is a very wise political decision. So already when you decided to cut down, here I would give you one proposal to establish a bar of permanent service in places where it is needed or in companies such as state forests, Croatian highways, Croatian waterways, such as tax administration and so on. Well, here's a little something to think about. I think there'd be enough work for the state's attorney's office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79326	The reply to the replica of Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79327	Thank you very much. So, absolutely permanent services are provided for in the bill. So, look are foreseen permanent services. As for the reduction of numbers, it's structurally they're uniting. However, only increases can occur in the number of people who will work on the subject. So this will raise efficiency. Because you can always think about whether you're going to put a structure in five places per man or you're going to put five people in one place that you can do much better and use much better. So this isn't supposed to be a reduction of people. I just said there's going to be a certain increase, because from this part of the extra officer we have at the courts we're going to transfer to the State's Attorney's office. So their work will only be more efficient. And the demands that can then be put before them are much, can be much greater than they are now. There'll be permanent services. I'm saying not a reduction, but a rise in efficiency.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79328	And now we're going to have a club debate. On behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives Damir Cain. He's not there, so the club's losing track of this point. On behalf of the SDP club colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79329	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister and Associates, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club supports the adoption of a proposal for legislation on areas and national courts. Of course, for almost all the reasons he supported yesterday and the draft law on areas and courts' seats, but also some other reasons that are specific to the structure and part-time work, and ultimately the efficiency of the State's attorney's office itself. We know that criminal policy in the Republic of Croatia is not unique. Yesterday, there was a minister, and we agreed that we had some kind of feudal system and justice. They're all closed. At the end of the day, it is often that such consequences of such a structure rather than being closer and more efficient to citizens have arisen in some way the opposite and legal uncertainty of citizens despite the new modern laws, especially the procedural laws, but also the material law and the enormous financial resources that are being invested, do not give or give adequate results not quite as much as our citizens expect. Now here we have heard from the beginning in one remark from our colleague that's why they're being abolished, so at least give permanent service, there will be a permanent service somewhere. But otherwise, the trend and thought in Europe was in the 1970s and 1980s to develop as dense a network and courts and state attorneys as they could intensify that they would be closer, more accessible to the citizens, that justice would be more accessible and closer to the citizens. However, a wealthy American has been going some other way for 70 years because he thinks there is not enough, she does not have enough resources to build new courts, to build new offices of state attorneys, but intensities are just putting on a peaceful settlement of disputes and to be able to conclude a settlement even in a criminal trial. And what we did far away in 2002, I would say in the CAP is a major step forward, which later resulted in a new Criminal Procedure Act that the defendants and the State's Attorney's Office could be negotiated before the court. So that one branched network we see has not produced such results and what needs to be done. So this is exactly what we need to do here is unique when we're talking about state, districts and state's attorney's offices for a single criminal-legal policy, a persecution policy. We have a situation today, and that's what I said yesterday that some of our counties are acting like countes and simply something that is a crime in one part of Croatia in another part of Croatia is not or at least we don't see results or attempts to resolve such things. Whether it depends on the geographical position or on names and last names. I think it's going to be a good deal of this bill, too. Why this is necessary, and what the minister said, works and the spatial concentration is important, if not extremely important. We are still far away in 2002 as a ministry gave up our own space to secure space in Gajevo for USKOK. It was therefore inadmissible after 2004, that the ministry that had free accommodation in the Street of the Republic of Austria moved to Djezmanovo and paid huge, huge amounts. That's why Mr. Minister, it's a great honor that you took care of the savings right away and moved to a lot I'd say not only cheaper, in a much cheaper space, but also more economical space for the ministry itself. So, it is certain that law enforcement authorities have better control over the state's attorneys, we know that it is specific though we have given the law and the deputies themselves a similar trend, as well as EU directives more independence but we cannot run away from it nor should we run away from the state's attorneyship being hierarchical, has a hierarchical structure and therefore a concentration here is desirable in a certain space for better control, doing better than he said right now and the minister is doing better specialization. We live in such a time that once knowledge, general knowledge was enough. However, the modern way of life and the increasingly complex laws and their application of each individual, from each profession, and especially here in the judiciary, require very narrow specialization. So, ever since I started working as an intern in the '80s, that was until 2002, we celebrated every small court opening in the third year, the state's attorney's office, so we only founded 12 in that period, unlike the 1990s, when it was founded on paper, and they didn't work at all. So, that model didn't invest, it didn't give results and big funds were invested. In fact, they have given one result in terms of reducing the number of objects, solving the number of objects but not the speed and not the quality we expected. Many here argue, especially if the mayors, that the very State's Attorney's office is staying with them, they don't really want it, but mostly the court to be with them, it's kind of their primary interest. I think it's a renegade and that people and that citizens don't really want it. People want their case solved as soon as possible, and where it's going to be, it's going to be in one place that's maybe just one street away from their place of residence, from their apartment, or a few dozen miles away is less important. What good does a citizen who lives across the street from the court have to do with his case for 10 years? Therefore, such populistism should be put to the end. These are not the interests of the citizens above all. Because this reform that now seems to be with this network of courts and state attorneys is now going towards a level playing field so that all state officials in the judiciary are equally burdened so that there is no more justification that the number they received could not be solved. It was a source of great injustice. I'm overloaded, I've got 100 items, I can't solve it monthly, and most of all, the norm is 30, and then he can pick which items he'll solve and which ones he won't. So we have cases not only in court but also in the State's Attorney's Office, although much less because the penal branch is much more up-to-date, that some cases take dozens and dozens of years. It's not a rare case for some to last 20 years. Meanwhile, some judges or state lawyers have made progress, and these cases have remained with some new ones. With a more rigorous monitoring of the work of all judicial officials, and especially state attorneys, they sanction how many cases they haven't solved within the time limit. Of course, there's an excuse for me being the subject of only six months and others he's been with for a few years and he's still an official and he's made progress. That's what we need with all not only government officials, but all the people in the administration. So we see one more rigorous approach in solving all cases especially those which damage the state budget, but it is equally necessary to see, there is still no statute of limitations, which has been done in recent years 5, 6, 7, 8 and some of the cases that have been damaged by the state budget have not been resolved. This remains the task of the State Attorney's Office itself, and the proposal of the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers will certainly contribute to this. But speaking of this proposal, which only seems to be of a formal nature and which produces essential improvements, the time is also the place to say exactly something about the relationship between the Police and the State's Attorney's Office. The state's attorney's office can't win that true role that he's given under the law or by the Constitution if that relationship between the State's Attorney's Office and the Police isn't good, it's not solid. But we've arranged the relationship. So, the police have their own actions, especially when it acts preventively, but equally when it's alone looking for the perpetrator and for providing clues to the crime. However, when the State's Attorney's office initiates the procedure then the regular authorities, police act on their orders. However, this apparently did not work out in the system of the last government. Well, we also remember the change in the rejection of criminal charges that since the police then wanted to have a man, even if he controlled the state's attorney's office whether he rightly or not rejected the criminal charges. These were some hints of the police state's intensities that we must stand up to at all times. The very institution of an investigative judge in his procedure that we have now left and we have a judge of investigation, and not an investigative judge, he was a rescue in relation to what the police were doing back in the '50s and back in those moustached times, and then the public prosecutor's office, and without the court's control. Therefore, it was a major democratic step in the development of criminal law, especially criminal proceedings. Now it is precisely because of the principle of efficiency, but also the judicial control of the proceedings itself given to the State's attorney and the judge of the investigation. So here's why I'm once again potentialing this relationship between the police and the state's attorney's office. We can't get the impression that even the recent situation wasn't an enormous attack by the police a few years ago at the State's Attorney's Office, which is inappropriate. But what do we have now? Recently, we had this through the media, and it was published in many of the shows that some judicial officials performed to teach the State's Attorney's Office. As it is unimaginable that the State's Attorney's Office is giving lessons publicly criticizing the work of the judiciary, it does so in its complaints, in its submissions, but not in this way. We had it from the courts. Whether or not an appeal should have been made in any particular case by the State's Attorney's Office. Is that the job of the judge, especially the one who ruled, he said it all in judgment. And the second-degree court will tell about the appeal if there are any of them on either side. Something else that is very important to us, and I would say about the state of the nation and the health of our institutions. Our institutions have developed cooperation in the fight against international crime and the highest level. Also where they can be suspects and international officials, some foreign officials of very prominent and strong countries, and we work well with them. However, the question arises: Do they work well with us? That should certainly be known whether they provide the necessary documents that require our state's attorney's office or whether we are in a position not to get the papers from the countries we give people to. It is also very important that our citizens have confidence in our institutions and we are not as this part of the government, but we are invited here to strengthen our judicial bodies, the state's attorneys and as executive and as the legislative authority to give them support in such cooperation. Here, dear colleagues and colleagues, once again, I point out that the SDP club supports the adoption of the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State attorneys, expecting that also by applying this law, we will get a more effective state attorneyship and that we will get one clearer and universal, as is the law in all parts of our beautiful, unique criminal and legal policy based on the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79330	Thank you. Replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79331	Thank you, my colleague, thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleagues, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, spoke about the progress of the state's attorney's office, and you have chronologically compared it since the 1950s when, and before that, when in the name of the people, it was killed without proof and without trial by hundreds of thousands of Croats. About that and yesterday this verdict to Mr. Bolkovec, I won't comment on it, but I'm saying there's no written order to liquidate 21 people. And that's the only proof that what's very important in our people is regret, no regrets, no forgiveness, no reconciliation. If there were regrets in those who killed 200 civilians in Slavonski Brod, if there were regrets with those of the Serbians who killed 28 children in Slavonski Brod, then perhaps we would have the possibility that the State Attorney's Office in Slavonski Brod should initiate proceedings against known and unknown perpetrators, and so far has not done so. For 28 dead children in Slavonski Brod during the Homeland War, the ordinary peaceful City of Slavonski Brod when it was bombed from the air and from the ground, artillery and aviation of Republika Srpska. Furthermore, you talked about settlements, but you forgot to say that the people, citizens, ask the citizens for settlements, ask for a sip of potatoes in some nursing home. If someone were to expose a criminal organization before an investigation was initiated, before it was launched, then that's okay, then it's really true repentance or a deal with that man. But when an investigation is launched and I say criminal law machine, then it's just saving your own head and betraying the other, the third that are in sequence or the first as it is now happening in courts.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79332	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79333	If someone exposed like a whistle whistler what was going on and a deal was made, and that participant himself in that crime scene, then it would be a real deal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79334	Thank you. Reply to the replica Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79335	Well, she's just such a good part, and she is, we're not the ones who're going to judge what kind of settlements are made, it's not in our domain. In our domain, it was to enable this through our legislation as well as almost all modern, modern legislations and what was settled in their procedural provisions when criminal matters were resolved. Of course these settlements are necessary, especially in this kind of crime in bribery, corruption, various abuses where you can't be a witness, where the witnesses are those who took part in it. And according to the contribution obviously all of these are, so when we see all these recent trials they're just trials based on people who have direct knowledge of it. And to do that it was necessary to develop a political climate if it was possible to happen. And so in what you're saying about these crimes, the most terrible crimes and war crimes, and the crimes in Porac, we're just about to get serious murders, and every such murder motivated by some political motives or any serious murder, whether it's politically motivated or not, we're just looking for a constitution to be introduced and never to get old. But what's lacking today isn't just a lack of opportunity, or political will in the state's attorney's office, is that what's going on? However, they face a very difficult deficit situation, so people need to be encouraged, a lack of witnesses who are willing to testify who are presumed to be witnesses either directly or even, or at least indirect knowledge.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79336	Vesna Skare-Ozbolt replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79337	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here, colleague Anticevic, you may have talked at least in your presentation about the reorganization of the state's attorney's network, but I would simply refer to one of your thesis that I personally agree with to put an end to populistism. I absolutely agree with this thesis, because indeed on populistism, and even in this assembly should be put to rest, especially when praise is given to the austerity of the move of the ministry from the Dežnjanovo building to a new location because, of course, it should be a great savings for the state budget because of the rent. But that's what I would experience as a populist for the reason that it's in that building in Djmanovo, which you say is a lease, a new state-owned institution, a state-owned state-owned property management office, has been moved in. Therefore, there is no savings for the state budget of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79338	Replication response, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79339	There's savings because it wasn't at that price. I wouldn't go back in such a distant past, but I think it was completely unwarranted. The ministry, the ministry, is there to serve its judicial authorities and there is nothing to boast and spread in Dzhmanovo, were good rooms in the Republic of Austria. And I'll repeat, then the ministry had rooms in Gajevo, but it gave up these rooms, the people who worked very hard, right at the adjustment of our laws, they gave up those spaces, we gave up those spaces for USKOK so that they could start working. And when I was talking, I wasn't talking about the law at least, these are the consequences we expect from the law, it's not the question here that the numbers are being combined, that are being separated. After all, I'd have a lot to say about it if I wanted to talk like that because for my time, for our time as coalition authorities, we founded 12 courts and state lawyers and they did... certain results, but we can see that it wasn't the one that fits the latest trends and what people expect. Therefore, I support this bill once again.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79340	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79341	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Fellow Members of Antičević-Marinović, this better organisation or reorganisation, merger, i.e. the concentration of courts and state lawyers, is something that is not new, especially what we have committed ourselves to, and this is the way we set out during the negotiations for Croatia's entry into the EU in Chapter 23 when we, among other things, strengthened independence and the state's attorneyship, i.e. the state, judicial and state council. You remember, of course, the 2010 amendments to the Constitution and that was passed by consensus. However, all of these procedures that we are talking about today, as the minister called it, from local backgrounds, which I think is good, of course always come up with resistances, depends on who we are from which political side, so we are in opposition, we are in opposition, personally I think that we should really be able to reach an agreement about it because the better organisation and of course the effectiveness is the goal of each of us, which is the real concern then about the citizens of the Republic, especially in terms of moving from the local environments because we have witnessed both 2 and 3 and 4 years ago and here these days and today, and I believe that there will be also tomorrow that some items are just moving from the local environment and then the investigation, or the initiation of the procedure, or everything that is on the trail of the processing of crimes has a real impact. And I agree with you that judges who criticise the state's attorney's actions do inadmissible things, but that's normal, and that's logical in Croatia, but when one of the politicians dares in any way to make any kind of remark, then he gets stuck to the cross, and that's the same thing we need to talk about once we have the strength to talk about and the reason why there are still insufficient numbers of solved cases, whether judges should, for example, work more and longer, I dare say it now, but there must be topics that we have to discuss in the Croatian Parliament, so where the laws are decided.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79342	Thank you. Replication response, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79343	Especially the reply to the replica requires this last thing you said because I think it's crucial. And I think it dawns on all of us that whether we're in opposition or in power or even in certain environments, that we realize that we need to do something to make the citizens happy, and whether one judicial body is there or not, and especially when you're talking in the local environment,... and worse, that it is, especially in that situation where it's a small environment, when with that middle, all the factors of the government and when all the criticism and all the public remains powerless on that one network, I would say that with one bench and simply the central government is difficult to touch, with all the mechanisms that we have to solve, to start things going on, no different than by law. What you said was that, the truth is, even the politicians, I said yesterday, that there are some politicians who would be persecuted, there are rare ones that would judge, instead of proposing laws here, and these laws have judges and state lawyers. Rarely, norms do not require interpretation, but there are standards that do not require interpretation, but only application. However, there are also problems, but we must be the ones to encourage the judiciary, to uphold the law and the Constitution, and if some laws are not good, to listen to practice just so that we can change them better than by interpreting the law to seek a way out of a situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79344	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79345	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Ingrid, you said in your debate on behalf of the club that there was no such up-to-date handling of government attorney's orders by the police, the USKOK, and that the laws and work of the state's attorneys are not the same in all counties because some act as... and thus influence the work, independent work of the state's attorneys. So I'll remind you that in the past government chapter 23 has been closed, that half of the ministers and Prime Ministers at the head of the prison today, in Remetinco, have been imprisoned, but we have clearly seen today that they have not been operating state's attorneys in Sisak, or in Rijeka, you've reminded me well neither in Zagreb for a year against former President Mesic, although the state's attorney from Finland clearly says what the defendants have admitted in the procedure... and the purchase of a vehicle, until today there is no reaction. I don't know what time you lived and when you noticed it, that you didn't notice that so many ministers were responding or responding, that they were being punished and that the Prime Minister had been tried several times already. I think you're still blind in healthy eyes and there's a difference in the work of the state's attorneys, but that the police didn't prevent or reject it, but that the state's attorneys rejected or kept it in the drawer as was the case...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79346	Reply to the replica Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79347	I didn't say they weren't up-to-date, there may be consequences that they weren't up-to-date, but it's doubtless that a few years ago the police were putting pressure on the state's attorney's office. It's facts, it's one thing. You're talking about individual cases now, ours isn't here to talk, it's not our job. It's our job, but to spot that something is a felony somewhere, I said it was... I'm also asking this way if it depends on the geographical position he is somewhere, somewhere he isn't. For a short time, for a longer period of time that lasted in a state of lawlessness or doubt of lawlessness is not. Therefore, and this bill, we return to a very well-founded law, which is what the minister said, to end these feuds, and to have a single legal application, to have greater legal certainty for the citizens, and greater uncertainty for the perpetrators.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79348	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic. The replica? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You have a word on behalf of the club about the wheel we're discussing. Here you go. Boro Grubisic on behalf of the HDSSB club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79350	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary with the associate. Wasn't this case for the state's attorney's office also about the Great Gorica south or in another state's attorney's office,... Zagreb, that's right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Because these things that are happening here and brought out by the representatives of the opposition, the biggest opposition parties, I would really say crime, those who decide. If the exact finding Mr. Mlakar made here is correct. But that's not all it is. Today it's about the areas and headquarters of the state's attorney's office. Although a talkative debate has developed here, from which much can be read. So there was talk of settlements, of the settlements of those who sinned, and when the investigation was launched, they repented. Those who took part in criminal acts and understood in due time until the investigation began that they were criminals and did crimes or corrupt acts if they remembered and reported it before any investigative proceedings or repressive measures took place, that would be then, and asked for a settlement, it would be a real settlement. It's not like this. About me already insisting, for years, that I've been here in two terms, about launching a criminal trial against known and unknown perpetrators who bombed Slavonski Brod for seven months, killed 200 civilians, not people in uniforms of military, but killed 200 civilians of them 28 children and bit a wolf of donkeys, not to mention. And when he was Mr. Bajic and here he is now Mr. Cvitan. We would like to see this indictment, so at least to say that the Croatian State and Croatian State Attorney's Office are also taking care of the dead, about the dead Croatian citizens. And those who were killed in '45, '46, and '47. And so on in the name of the people that we do not speak. I said here it would be good if someone repented, then we would easily make a deal, but we would forgive, but we will never forget. And we'll never forget. But today it's not really about these things, even though the debate I say is going towards it. In 2000, he was in power of the SDP with his coalition partners by 2003. Do you know why you lost the election after that? Because it wasn't promised, and that's the process of criminal privatisation and conversion. That's why you lost the election if you want to know. Because the privatisation lustration that was to be carried out has not been implemented until today, and today we have a constitutional provision that there is no obsolescence of crime in privatisation and conversion. One vain norm in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia that brings nothing and doesn't move anything. Where's whoever's been processing any privatisation? Some circles are tied up so I don't say lawyers, etc. who, along with others, caused this criminal privatisation and conversion. Politics and the judiciary and it led to it. But there is no processing even though, with great pomp, we introduced the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia non-depreciation of criminal acts in privatisation. As I was already speaking, the opportunity to tell me when it comes to state attorneys is a good saying that I read on a monument about what died in Slavonski Brod 200 civilians and 28 children. He says dead eyes open. Unfortunately, we're sleeping. Dead eyes open. But unfortunately, our eyes obviously haven't even seen the eyes of the state's attorney yet. Now, shall we vote in favour of this law as a HDSSB club? I know that rationalization and all the judicial authorities, the headquarters of state lawyers, municipal courts, etc. the measure necessary because of the situation in the country. There are interesting reasons why, which are mentioned here in the text which explain what three main measures are, or why such a law is passed which is further rationalisation from 2011 when the Government seems to me to have rationalised the network of courts, i.e. the state's attorneys again under some scheme known to the Government, the then Government of the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore that there is an unbalanced working burden on certain state attorneys, i.e. state lawyers and their deputies. That's number one. Number two is about insufficient mobility of state lawyers and three insufficient use of existing resources. These are the three main measures that lead to this law, which will save 5 million and 100 thousand kuna in the Republic of Croatia's budget for the Ministry of Justice when it comes to the application of this law, according to the assessment of the necessary funds for law enforcement. Therefore, for employees, savings will be made at staff expenditures in 2015. 2 million and 400 and savings in 2016 Two million and 700. When you add it up, it's 5 million and 100 kuna. It's okay, we can say it's a little bit, it's a lot, etcetera. Or a grain for a grain of cake, but a stone for a stone for a palace. Yesterday we talked about saving about 50 million kuna from municipal courts and County courts, their locations or the network that was proposed yesterday. So here, when all of this is summed up plus indirect benefits after there are likely to be fewer people who are going to sue the European Court of Human Rights for an unreasonable period of trial, those who will be costs of dislocation or a delegation of trials in some other places, so there will probably be less costs. So when we take these indirect benefits in cash, we hope that the Ministry of Justice will save an increase in the amount, perhaps up to 100 million kuna a year, which is good. However, it is said that the law or the network of state attorneys in 2011, since 2011, the law number, the "National Journal" number 130, in the Republic of Croatia, has established 33 municipal state attorneys and 15 county state attorneys. 15 County stays, and the municipality now shrinks to 21, from 33 to 21. But I have to say, they stay so-called. Permanent services, so I will count them because there are not many, there are only 16 permanent services as parts of the municipal state attorneys' offices in, for example, Zadar Benkovac, Bjelovar in Daruvar, in Dugi Sel, then in Djakova for Osijek, for the County State Attorney's Office in Osijek, in Metković for Dubrovnik, Našice also Osijek, Pazin, Crikvenica, Kutina, Sinj, Makarska, Knin, Vinkovci, Ivanić City and Velika Gorica, Samobor too. Unfortunately, there is no New City which would also be some sort of permanent service in court in, excuse me in county ZDO let's say so briefly, the County State's Attorney's Office in Slavonski Brod, which is a real damage to the county that has a specific appearance, a geographical position, a length of 150 kilometers along the Sava River. We're not going to mention the floods now, it's already HDZ's use. But such a form of county geographical and geographical accommodation and distance from Gradiška from Slavonski Brod about 54 kilometers depends on which road you take on the highway or the ordinary, county road. So here is Nova Gradiška, although Nova Gradiška compared to these 16 permanent services there are also more inhabitants than many of those listed, named here or listed whatever you want already, so far she's had some kind of state's attorney's office or tradition let's say. So when the reduction started, and I say the reduction and the new network of state attorneys, so the number of municipalities is reduced from 64 to 33, and here is now 21, and the number of county clear by the number of counties that have 20 plus the City of Zagreb 21 has the property of the county is now reduced to 15. And so there remains 15 county attorneys' offices. With that it must be pointed out that in this later part of the text of this law I must say again that there are also permanent services in these places that I have explicitly counted. Someone here asked and replicated the minister why there are no permanent services in HAC, Croatian railways? It would really be a job for at least a year, two days maybe temporarily receive a certain group of those experienced in the State Attorney's Office, for example in HZ, mainly in Cargo or in facilities, the supply facilities for which we know what's going on and how the pubs in this situation are at this point with HZ supply facilities. Well then in HEP and all others, Croatian forests etc. Maybe I could be a cartoonist, but maybe some flying squad of the State's Attorney's office from any city or county state's attorney's office on these state-owned firms wouldn't be so bad if they ran into these data that both employees and trade unions have, and not just them, but to see a little trace of the money and to start going through a little bit of this and not only in the places we've listed but also in the companies is it mainly state-owned companies. Croatian waters for example, they are very current etc., I already told HZ about. I'm not going to say what I know about Croatian railways, so I don't go back to the information talks as it happens these days. Mostly this law was to be discussed today in this debate. It may also be voted on today if clear conditions are met. We'll think about it. Here's what I'm saying in these 16 permanent services, there's no New City, and here's what we're looking at, I'm not going to mention the name of any city that's numbered here, and I think Nova Gradiška in that sense, given some things she deserves, she doesn't deserve any credit, does she? I wish the state's attorneys had no idea we didn't need them except in the defence of the interests of the Republic of Croatia when we had certain items, when opinions were given on state agricultural land as they were previously given. But when we look at what he told us and told the late Bruno Busic then the number of state lawyers and lawyers in this Croatia is really not as big as it is here and it is said to be reduced, but the number of state lawyers and assistants remains the same. I even think it needs to be increased because everything that happens in this country, all the corrupt acts and everything that happens in local self-governments. Mr. Dinko Cvitan used the term local sheriffs, we as politicians cannot even say it here because some of us here are immediately angry that the leaders of the local self-government units were the mayors of the municipalities, whether the mayors who are members of the Croatian Parliament. But here's to the state's attorney's statement, no sheriff, or the local self-government's excused head has responded. When we say it here as representatives of the local sheriff, then the whole crowd gets up because we used an inadequate expression like someone said. Here, we'll discuss this legal proposal at the club and we'll arrange for a vote. And there's one more thing I wanted to say about the settlement, so we have a whistle-sniffing institution. That's when someone but also those who are not participants but have discovered or exposed the situation criminally, corruptly in their firm. But unfortunately, the experience with whistles tells us that it shouldn't be a whistle. What are whistles going on in Croatia? Real martium, torture, torture. Here are the examples, I'm not going to say INA names and so on. I'm bringing the end, thank you very much. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Bring the end.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79351	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79352	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So here's my colleague Grubisic talking about the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Attorneys, so he mentioned their work and efficiency in certain war crimes cases and said that so far there are no ones responsible for 200 civilians, of which 28 children in Slavonski Brod. There's no such thing as 100 civilians in our county of Virovitica-Podravska. There is no sign of what has been signed between the Croatian and Serbian state lawyers. So, the legal aid that these judicial bodies should cooperate with, The state's attorneys have no red warrants issued under Interpol to bring justice to those who are suspicious, but also those who have witnesses that they are perpetrators. There are some punished who have been tried in absentia, but have never been brought to justice, not faced with them, have not experienced the maintenance of punishment or have suffered a satisfaction. As such, and in this law, the only objective that this law really achieves is the proposed legal text to facilitate the supervision of the work of state attorneys, so we believe that real work, work, use of all inter-state signed agreements and legal cooperation agreements will take place next. So, through this legal cooperation, it is likely that those who have not been sanctioned, punished or processed will come to order.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79353	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79354	Mr. Djakic, I am aware that in Virovitica-Podravska County, in the towns of Humljani, Balinci, Cetekovac, Čojluk, Kraskovic, Hum and Voćin were killed and massacred 100 civilians. We also have a book that talks about it, along with the 200 in Slavonski Brod. We don't have a second look left, but to press charges to the military prosecutor's office in Belgrade, they might be prosecuted, that agile in the process are therefore those who participated in the crimes, but our prosecution, I don't see them doing anything, I don't see the consequences of their work. That would have been known in Croatia if anyone had been charged. Unfortunately, we do not have any choice but to file a lawsuit in a military court in Banja Luka or Belgrade, which is a real paradox for such a developed state's attorney, the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79355	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79356	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your colleague Grubisic, you said, mentioned the rationalization of the network of courts, i.e. general rationalisation in the judicial system and of the previous government. That is true, however, you said one thing that is not true, that the rationalisation of courts and everything else was carried out by the scheme, and I quote: "which was known only to the government.". No, because it was not known to the public, it was known to the Croatian Parliament because the laws changed in the Parliament. These were our obligations, but our decision during our accession to the European Union, that is what we decided, that that is not what we decided, that we should not have agreed to, and then we should not have been a member of the European Union today. And you said that, with great pomp, we introduced a provision on the non-deprecated crime and war profits into the Constitution. I wouldn't say pomp. I'd say yes. As far as I know most MPs, almost all voted for amendments to the Constitution in 2010.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79357	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79358	This provision, my colleague Kosor, on the non-depreciation of crime in privatization is, in fact, in some ways, so it turns out that he did not have any procedure in which he did not have any of the procedures, to rub the public's eyes on the Croatian constitution about it. But what I was about to say, and what you said to me was not true, of course the government is building a plan and a program of rationalization of courts and state's attorneys and everything. And you did it as Prime Minister together with your co-workers and the Minister of Justice, as today's Government does. Which are the reasons to abolish, according to yours, the Criminal Court in Nasice. Well, if the people of the Friscans were to travel to Djakovo in a 70km misdemeanor court, I don't know. If you know that, you tell me now or we'll clear it up in the hallway. In order for 2800 citizens of Nash to sign their signature, it would require that some service be infringing, whether the court itself is in violation of something that remains and survives, which has happened. So, on request, to the intervention of the citizens of Nasic. So they didn't know why it was being abolished either, if they didn't and we didn't, then it remains that you were the only one who knew why it was being abolished. And there are a number of other examples, but I'm saying this because I'm from Slavonia, so I know about the Nashes quite reliably that's what happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79359	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79360	... What do we do now, here's what I'm gonna say out loud. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I see our club break has turned a lot more attention off the subject that we should be talking about. I apologize for that, because he sits in order and waits for us to say what we have on his regulations, but it's interesting that we are now from the ruling SDPs getting different information about the composition of the Ethics Commission that you already knew from before and you haven't told us. I must warn you that it is my fault that you address. What you have to say is that possibly the Labourists were wrong in proposing their members, you had to tell the Constitutional Court which the Ethics Commission appointed. Davorin's Mlakar really doesn't have any influence. But I can note that the facts are very interesting, especially because more than one member of the Ethics Commission is able to do so, not to translate that it is morale in the electoral process, under suspicious circumstances or with suspicious qualifications put in that position. Since Sunday's European elections, in two days' time and we expected to receive such an understandable response, we urge you again to share them with us in the benches, not from the information you have, but from the competent institution to intervene, not from the spot in this election. And I'd like to thank everyone who complains to the Laburists who aren't here, and I won't represent them, and I have no right to do so. Let them speak, if you want to speak please answer the word I will gladly leave it to the stage. I'd go back to what the subject is that we're here today, and that's the law that goes on de facto to the Court's Headquarters Act and I'm going to say right away, some of them say that every misunderstanding goes away, the HDZ Club will pass a law like this. Of course, we will not now use the Law on State Lawyers’ headquarters to discuss specific subjects and work as some other colleagues have taken advantage of the opportunity. We will say, in conclusion, that we think that every network that goes after it, that it leads to more quality work of the state's attorneys is what we will always welcome as a proposal from the government, regardless of who it came from and that we share the view that there is room for the work of the state's attorneys to be rationalized and probably raise their quality. What we must say in this regard as a general finding that has nothing to do with this network is the fact that the state's attorneys have become, to the greatest extent, institutions that are probably pressed against public opinion, and in particular to the media, atrocity of their own responsibilities, and this is a criminal part of the right, because it is obviously the media's most interesting. And here we have an objection because it seems to us that the state's attorneys are in good shape, so to speak, less emphasis has placed on the civic part of their responsibilities, and especially on the administrative functions in which they also participate in the process. And when you listen to reports on the work of the state's attorneys, the smallest emphasis will be on civil matters, and especially on administrations. However, in one and the other, there are very big problems that the state's attorneys, I would say, are easily solved because they have concentrated on one branch of law, and in this we have objected that we have expected much more, not for the mandate of this government, but for the mandate and earlier governments and state lawyers to solve much more war crimes problems than is finally the solution that we have today. It seems to us that in their function, as far as war crimes are concerned, they have failed the most. We are aware that this problem is great, that it is difficult to carry out procedures, but we are convinced that it could have been done significantly more. That we can't be satisfied with the work of county state attorneys and that they don't act in the same way or the same quality, they can only illustrate this classic example from the county attorney's office covered by Sisak-Moslavina County, which speaks of the work of the county attorneyship covered by the city of Rijeka or if you want the responsibilities of the county state attorney's office in Vukovar-Srijem County. That standard, here's a colleague of Anticevic's, has something to say. This standard is lower than that seen in the work of some other state attorney's offices, and we would like this network in some way, sublimation of quality to lead to a greater quality of work of these state's attorneys. How much does human policy play in this? Very likely, I'd say even crucial. What's the impact of the state's attorney general? Immeasurably big because he's got a lot of tools that can affect the quality of work, but on the other hand, human resources policy shows that in the state's attorney's office by the attorney general, and in every case, I'd say the pore of our lives. The last example for you is the Ethics Commission for Elections for the European Parliament in which we violate the laws that we ourselves adopt, thereby opening up the space of doubt, not only in that classical corruption, political corruption, in the trade of influences or any other work that we do not consider to be found, that it is worthy, that it is even spoken of when we are in human rights positions, one of the most certain of these human rights is the electoral right that this government, and I will take another chance to say, has trampled about all those voters who do not have a residence in the Republic. I am afraid today and ask, but we will soon get results how from that bubble of soap that has been there for a long time is a concrete result achieved in these elections for the European Parliament where we will see that the voters outside the Republic of Croatia have again, I would say in a number that represents less than a statistical error, and we are aware that this is far from the real situation. Therefore, to conclude, the HDZ Club supports the rationalisation of courts and state attorneys, we do not have any major objections to the text of this law, and I believe that by the second reading some other things will be arranged for the satisfaction of all and then we are ready in such a form and to support such a law. And before the end of this session, we would also like to hear the opinion of the parliamentary majority, as we will enter Sunday's elections in view of the problems that arose 2 days before the elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79361	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79362	I'm going to rephrase this part for you, I can't answer your question exactly how, I don't know why you're using a press release for the European elections, so here's why I'm telling you that we're going to go out safely because Europe is at a turning point where it needs more sociality and more solidarity. It is therefore clear which parties represent such an idea, unlike the conservatives who have brought us into all this trouble and where national authorities are having a hard time struggling with the consequences of such authorities. As for the very subject that you've spent a lot of time on these surrounding matters, as far as the law debate is concerned, you're saying that our State's Attorney's office is paying a little attention to the civil department. Rarely done by the state's attorneys and this civil segment, but you will see if you have and if you follow, and I believe that, perhaps, you have added a little bit, annual reports on the work of the state's attorneys and you will see that almost 50% of this report is said exactly about the work in civil matters, in the affairs of representation, the disputes of damages, the giving of opinions, the process of chartering ownership and what is most important in protecting the exploitation of mineral raw materials of the maritime goods. There we had six, seven years ago a terrible theft of state property. Good, and if it hadn't been for the State's Attorney's Office and such protection certainly not, although it can be agreed that it's still not satisfactory, but almost a lot would be worse. As for the county attorneys themselves, you named Rijeka, it seems to me to be Sisak-Moslavina County in which your state's attorneys do not work. That's what we kept saying that DORH works but that the biggest problem is the county state's attorney's office and here's what's obviously reached those that need to be reached. However, I would disagree that you list some, and that is why you are always putting yourself in danger in that list because you have not listed some who are much worse and less working than those you have listed, and apparently because they are doing little or no good for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79363	Thank you very much. The answer to Davorin's Mlakar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79364	Thank you very much. My colleague Antičević had several thesis but I will try to explain it to you by example. The County State Attorney's Office of Sisak-Moslavina County received a report in 2009 and the opinion of the Administrative Inspectorate on the facts you read about today, but for 5 years it did nothing, it was my motive to tell you about the specific State's Attorney's Office what it was doing. There were also indications of criminal acts in the area of the city of Vukovar, but the Rijeka case is already so familiar that I don't have to explain it specifically to you. In the end, he fell into oblivion and the files from the Trade Court were missing, which were actually evidence in the process. But that may be less important, you took this opportunity to say something about promotion for the upcoming elections. I wanted to tell you that I didn't promote elections here, and I didn't even invite citizens to respond to a larger number because they were pressured by such problems that they are probably at the very least concerned with the process of European elections. I was talking about ethics or morale in a policy that certainly is this example of the Ethics Commission's election significantly damaged, but I can tell you that we have never used the difficult situation, the accident of the population that has suffered to use it for cheap political points, so someone was driving around as James Bonds in amphibiouss or Sean Connery with sunglasses and held government meetings in private companies where there are state and local government bodies and thus used the most primitive form of political promotion the upcoming elections, enjoying almost the accident that hit the whole of Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79365	And Zlatko Tušak, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79366	Thank you, Vice President. In your discussion, you said and mentioned the Croatian Labour Labour Party that they are manifested as a member of the Ethics Committee, so in that part I have to be clear that Croatian Labourers have proposed a member of the Ethics Commission but who is not a member of the party is Berto Shalaj. He is president of the council as a non-partisan body and is not a member of the party, so within that, because of the truthfulness and information of the public and parliamentary representatives, Croatian Labourists did not make a mistake when it comes to proposing members to the Ethics Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79367	Thank you very much. The answer to Davorin's Mlakar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79368	Thank you very much, Mr. Tušak and I apologize for calling you in some way, and I called you because this nervousness that has culminated already among the SDPs motivated them to come and talk to me even from the chair about facts that are obviously not correct. I referred them to the competent authority and made their objections about any problems in the qualification of candidates to deliver where these candidates are elected, I said that, it is the Constitutional Court. However, all those people who were appointed in the process seem to have had to sign a declaration that they were not members of any political party. It is hard to believe that someone who is president of some of the party organisations is not a member of that same party, and especially if it is as in this case that I have presented even the main assembly. But that time will show accurate or incorrect information. I'm glad you spoke publicly about your candidate here because I think you've at least in some way increased your anxiety with your SDP colleagues because they don't have an adequate response to their proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79369	There is no anxiety, and you should have also made such a complaint to the institution, not to put it here. Just like you've instructed us now. We're moving on to an individual debate. A colleague of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79370	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister with an associate. I apologize I'll take Mr. Minister two minutes from the topic so I'll go back to it, because simply we in our Rules of Procedure obviously don't have a mechanism to respond to something that's simply not true after the break and the debate. We've been trying to figure out ethics here, about morality, about the SDSS in a very bad context. What's this about? Snježana Vasiljevic is a professor at the Faculty of Law of the Department of European Public Law, a respected professor. Snježana Vasiljevic, professor at the Faculty of Law, is not a formal member of the SDSS. Snježana Vasiljevic, professor at the Faculty of Law, made a statement to her dean, Kusic, where she did not, where she claims to be not a formal member of the SDSS, she is a fan of the party. And as a prominent citizen, she probably participated in the forum. I repeat, she is not a formal member of the Independent Democratic Serb Party. Next thing you know, I've been listening to you. In addition, the SDSS did not propose its membership because it is neither a formal part of the coalition for these elections. Our candidate, Professor Pupovac, is a candidate on the list as a prominent citizen and not as a member of the Independent Democratic Serb Party, and on this basis we could not even propose an Ethics Commission member. Here's my colleague, Mlakar, so much for this topic in terms of ethics and morality and all that. So let me get back to the debate. Proposal for a Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers. I won't be long, just as long to say the position of the Independent Democratic Serb Party and our club on this subject as well as yesterday's subject when we talked about the rationalization of courts. We absolutely support the ministry's initiative and efforts to rationalise these two systems within the judiciary. We know that the process of rationalization in a way that certain state attorneys are abolished or deployed, etc., has never been a popular thing. There's always perception, there's something going on in the field that people are taking, there's some comformation being taken and local self-government is saying, right next to the school, next to the post office, next to this, there's a court of law. So, of course that's not so, that's a simplified perception of this whole problem. We think you're on the right track, we think you should also relieve the work of judges and state attorneys, so a delegation of cases from more-loaded institutions to less-loaded ones. If in some way a more correct distribution were made in solving these cases, then we would probably avoid those non-compliance suits within the appropriate time limit, probably the quality of solving these first-degree things would be, I'm also talking about trial. So she'd be much more quality. We think that there are other tools such as information tools to be introduced, thought there was another set of alternative ways of resolving disputes and developing systems such as free legal assistance that we have to talk about, which is only in the beginnings of our experiences and which should in any case be better quality and human and materialized so that they are then in the function of dispensing the trial in the Republic of Croatia. What I want in this debate is two things highlighted. The first thing is therefore the problem that is opening up to us, perhaps not even a problem, perhaps not even a problem, I suppose it will not be, and that is the employment of these high-level, highly educated people, members of the Serb national minority. But if colleagues were here, this could probably be a question for members of the employment and other national minorities. Namely, the data suggests that in the state's 589 lawyers, only 15 are members of the Serbian Nationality. In municipal courts of 887 such is 18. In county courts of 406 such, there are 11, Trgovski has none. There are no members of the Serb national minority in the High Violent. There are none in the Administrative Court, no members of the Serb national minority are present in the High Commercial Court. And we see in general by some indication that otherwise the employment of members of national minorities is in regression, so in decline. It also opens the question of how to replace someone who is leaving for a well - deserved pension. Does the same key replace it with a member of the national minority who is retired? We think and we have information that we don't and we think we should work on that thing. So we think that this rationalization that we absolutely support and we think that you are on a good path, both the courts and the DORH, should be taken into account to maintain this minority structure of employees if not to lead to the level that they are looking for. However, we are fully aware that there is a certain ban on employment in the authorities of the state administration. Next thing you know, I'm talking about here, and I'm gonna say something, so I'd like to give you some data, and my predecessor is also talking about the non-treatment of state's attorneys in the case of criminal punishment, war crimes. Data are quite different, data say a total of 3495 criminal charges have been filed, of which 112 criminal charges against members of the Croatian people, so 2.5% and 3383 charges against members of the Serbian nationality are therefore 97.5%. Of these 3495 criminal charges, 1090 court cases were formed and resulted in 636 indictments against 3432 people. Of these defendants, 3432 even 2999 were tried in absentia. That's the problem, people are in 99% of cases destined in absentia, which those who practice law know is a very slippery terrain and that often in repeated procedures, the whole thing is questionable. Finally, I would say that we have an indication that in front of the European Court of Human Rights and in processing 21 lawsuits against Croatia brought by families of victims killed in the 1990s war in the Republic of Croatia. Of these 21 lawsuits, 18 are due to unexplored and fined cases, murders and the disappearance of citizens of Serbian nationality, and 3 are related to the death of Croatian nationals. Almost half of the lawsuits refer to crimes against Serbs in Sisak in the early 1990s, and lawsuits for inefficient investigations and lawsuits have also arrived for crimes in Kiev, Osijek, Vukovar, Brod, Vinkovci, Podcrnic, Brloška Dubrava, Topolica etc. etc. Therefore, there is no claim that DORH did not do his job on this matter. Of course there is a certain very visible disproportionate in the charge. Of course it's not good if this number of lawsuits comes before the International Court of Human Rights. It means that these parts question the credibility of domestic judgments and should be discussed. Yesterday we talked about it, and what is the negative financial effect of such judgments before the Court of Human Rights. Of course it's such a matter that we need to talk about it seriously. All in all, we think this job of yours should be supported. And the SDSS club will vote for both the first and this second bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79371	We now have a breach of Rules of Procedure Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79372	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, although not some new representative of counterpart Horvat has experience in the work of this House, he has injured Article 238 in his speech. The Rules of Procedure, even by his own admission, because he said that he would not talk about the subject, but would speak to me too, replicating something that I was talking about. I think that, not that he deserved a warning, it doesn't matter. But maybe you should direct him because he was wondering how he might come to the opportunity to speak, so tell him he was sitting here all the time even for a break on behalf of the club he could talk about the subject for five minutes. I think that's what hurt our Rules of Procedure, and that's why I think it should be noted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79373	He did not harm the Rules of Procedure but spoke about the practice of many MPs in this House. And at the beginning of the few minutes, you used it to talk about an issue that wasn't discussed. This was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, you have no right to reply to a replica, but you have replicas. Davorin's Mlakar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79374	Well, thank you very much, this is another good interpretation of yours that is actually continuing to be a very inspired interpretation of my colleague Mile Horvat. I will therefore read to you for the sake of the Croatian public, otherwise I apologize to all those people whose personal names we use, I don't know them. But the facts say that the law was broken and that it was to be taken care of. Therefore, at the meeting of the Ethics Committee, one of the proposed and later elected candidates warned that Snježana Vasiljevic was a member of the commission, which, based on Article 68(2) of the Law, should be a party independent performs a high function in the SDSS, the chairman of the SDSS City Committee and is highly engaged. In addition, the members of the commission signed a written statement before the appointment of the office that they are not party members and are not party candidates in the elections, and Snjezana Vasiljevic is not an ordinary member of the party but performs a high party duty and is extremely engaged. Resume what my colleague Horvat said. Yes, Mrs Vasiljevic is not an ordinary member of the party, she is the president of one of your organizations. I appreciate the freedom in your party that you claim it is possible to be the president of the city organisation member of the party's main assembly without being a party man. But I have to tell you, colleague Horvat, that's very hard to believe, and I don't think you believe that yourself either. Unfortunately, our laws are so inaccurate or can't be precise that every situation of life can predict. But defending something that's indefensible is only doing you harm. It would be better if you withdraw the proposal instead of these calls and resolve the issue because of the legality of the choices ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79375	Comrade Mlakar, you are warning me of the Rules of Procedure here. You always have observations about how the session is being held, and now you've used one very incorrectly again by calling one person you say someone said was a member or president. Oh, please! If the representative who's a member of that party says he's not, then I have to trust him. And here you appeal to us to report to the Constitutional Court. Replication response, Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79376	My fellow Mlakar, I respect you as a colleague and I see and you have today quite inspiredly tried to instruct us with some things. We didn't propose anyone to the Ethics Commission I'm telling you because we didn't have a basis, because we're not a nominal member of the European elections coalition. So we had no right to suggest. She was proposed by her house, so the Faculty of Law and she signed a statement that she was not a member, a formal member of the SDSS, neither ordinary nor unusual. So, none. She's a sympathiser and she'll probably be talking to... No, I don't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79377	Don't yell from the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79378	Please, please. I mean, this is not a way to bid, please, this is not a way to bid on the name of a serious legal expert. If you have a problem with that you complain, there are institutions some Electoral Commission, or let the Ethics Commission just solve it. So why are you bidding on the name of such a serious lady? So when did we do it compared to some of your personnel combinations? What's this about? If you think something is wrong, that choice is illegal, there are illegal ways to solve it and not to label a serious legal expert that I repeat again is not our proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79379	A colleague Đurović, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79380	Thank you. Representative Horvat you have said on several occasions that you are not a party member of this coalition but are informal and we are all testifying to this in this 2.5 year that you systematically and permanently support all the legal solutions that come from the ranks of this coalition and that your prominent or most respected member is on their Euro elections list and that many decisions in this House have been on your votes at some point. Therefore, you too bear great responsibility as a party for these 2.5 years and for the results of this government. And you can't get away with it or get away with it. So history should be recorded and we here need, yes, you are a very active but informal member of this ruling coalition and share responsibility with them for all results. And for success, and for failure. On the other hand, when you talked about the quotas of some minorities or some peoples in public bodies, so forgive the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, all citizens are equal independent of religion, nation, sex, age, race, and I don't know what. Is there any law by the Republic of Croatia that states that someone in public bodies is elected to the State's Attorney's Office in court according to some nationality? And let alone that eventually when a Croat retires that a Croat must come to his place in the State's Attorney's Office? Or when the Czechs retire that the Czechs must come to change him in the State's Attorney's Office or a Serb Serb? So please, don't keep pushing us those thesis. In the Republic of Croatia, the Constitution is clear and the laws are clear in state attorneys, courts, health care, public administration there are no national quotas as far as I know about anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79381	Replication response, Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79382	Thank you. So, buddy, two things to clear up here. You have every right to perceive us politically as part of the coalition. We formally are not now or from the first moment, we support all those legal texts, legal solutions that we consider to be good for the Republic of Croatia, absolutely for all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And I don't see why they wouldn't be supported if we thought they were okay. Just because he suggested it to the Kukurik coalition so we wouldn't support it? We were in the previous term on software matters with the HDZ government, here is former President Mrs Kosor, where we worked very well together and where we also supported those solutions that were for general benefit, or which were of interest to the Republic of Croatia. Not to talk about the EU accession process, much more difficult topics, etc., etc. So you can't tell us some things that don't stand. And we will always vote for those solutions that are good. It is also clear to you that what we think is not what we think is good. Second thing, quota. Well, you've been here long enough and you've been a Parliamentarian long enough to know that there is a constitutional law on the rights of national minorities that regulates this matter very clearly. Do you like it? Is that acceptable to you? That's the subject of conversation. But it's written, that's what this House adopted, it's what the EU bodies are pictured when we enter the EU and it needs to be implemented. There is also an Action Plan of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that has operationally committed itself and said what percentage must be members of national minorities in the employment of state administration bodies, regional administrations even local self-government authorities. Unfortunately, we don't stick to it. And it's quite clear that I insist that someone who retires from that percentage be replaced to maintain that percentage.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79383	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79384	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here's because my colleague Horvat initially mentioned the Ethics Commission and that the debate continued, I'm going to say that at times this debate on the Ethics Commission for these elections crosses the boundaries of ethical behavior. So in that sense, I would like to try to get back to the beginning and ask, and since fellow Horvat is having a problem with who decided on the composition of the Ethics Commission in the end, who chose it? Constitutional court. So far, no one has asked that question in any way. Therefore, if I assume that the Constitutional Court has made a final decision on the appointment of members of the Ethics Commission, I suppose it must have checked that all members fulfil the conditions set out in the regulations of the Republic of Croatia. And let's concentrate on that. And the fact is, by really clicking on a mouse, we can check whether someone is a member of a party or not. Is he the president of some organization or not? It would be strange if the president of the organization or the president of any party were not a member. But let's check it out and get this debate over with. And the other thing that seems important to me and it's mentioned here, and you mentioned it to Mr. Col. Horvat, about the processing of war crimes. I would like to point out once again here, no government, no one, not this one, not past, nor the previous ones could in any way be responsible for the processing or non-processing of any crime, and then no war crimes because governments must create frameworks to strengthen the rule of law, and it is known who is responsible for the state's attorney in these cases. Therefore, the data you have provided are data that are relevant. And that is the only information we can and must discuss in Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79385	The answer to the line of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79386	Thank you. Comrade Kosor, in any case, thank you for this clarification, therefore, of the unnecessary debate we have opened here and delivered to each other about morality and ethics. I see it more as some sort of semi-legal, semi-legal opportunity to talk a little bit more about elections when we don't already have official meetings, which is quite good and justifiable, then here's a chance that through one of the institutes here in the Parliament there is still something that is related to European elections, and none of us here previously wanted to. And that's why I'm surprised you opened it. The Constitutional Court is the one who, well you said who appointed the members and I do not question the legitimacy of the appointment to this effect at all, because then we question the legitimacy of the Constitutional Court's decision which is few. So here you are, here with this kind of debate a bigger question has been raised than the appointment of this lady whose name I will no longer be here to mention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79387	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79388	Thank you very much. Col. Horvat, a colleague of the Mlakar, is when it counts those who are in the ruling coalition and who have proposed, except for the president who is president of the HZU, so three on behalf of the ruling ones. He also classified the SDSS, claiming you formally or informally that, whether in the coalition or not, it is public in the coalition and the people and citizens know it, as well as ORAH, pardon the watermelon, ORAH pardon. How much of those who have been sued in the Republic of Croatia, against whom the State Attorney's Office is conducting proceedings, do you think that, on the basis of the definition of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, it is therefore defensive and on my initiative and liberative, therefore a defensive and liberative war. Do you expect to be equal to the number of people sued for equality, for the key, I suppose? So in some Bosnian municipalities, the mayor of the municipality was chosen by key, these are old times. So one term must be a Serb, one term of office of Croat and one term of office of Bosniak, Muslim however you like. That's how you'd like it to be in Croatia and be a relationship on behalf of these ruling 2-1 Croats, and here's one member of the Serb minority. What do you mean, what are you saying? And in the end, I agree with you to be in the judiciary and the prosecution an even number of Serbs represented in the system, but then I also count on these people on the Serbian side to help shed light on the cases of the Sun, the raped women in Vukovar, whom neither this government nor anyone will process, nor help to process, and we have clear and loud statements of witnesses and those involved, those who were unfortunately exposed to such a procedure and procedure in the military.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79389	counterpart Grubisic, no government is processing in democratic states. You take counsel and you need to know that. The answer to the line of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79390	I thank my colleague Grubisic. My colleague Grubisic doesn't mind that you see us as part of the coalition and we are not ashamed of it, just as we are not ashamed of our participation in the coalition with the HDZ government. My God it's politics, it's moment, it's circumstances, it's time etc. But what I have to tell you because of the clear perception of the whole thing, it's always good for minorities to be there for the ruling because no one so big a minority problem can solve it from the opposition. Therefore, it must be co-operatively and correctly tackled with options, with governments that are in power at the moment. Regarding this second part, which you said, so you called me for the figures on criminal charges filed for war crimes, I only read 3495 criminal charges and 2.5% against members of the Croatian people and 97% against Srpski. And I didn't comment, and I didn't insist on any key because it's not bidding with the victims and it's not good that you're formulating it this way. I respect you, but your comment is not good, because I don't bid the victims, I'm talking about participation by, in relation to employment, not the trial and trial of the victims for war crimes. No one's playing with that. At the end of my mind, it wasn't my idea to bid myself in a way to look for some key in the procession. I realized that, how many people were processed, what proportions were in that number, and I found in the end that the state's attorney was doing its job after all. Of course you'd want to be twice as processed, then you'd probably find that the DORH was doing well, that at least one 5,000 of them were being processed, as it was supposed to be at first, as it was supposed to be. Otherwise, of course, out of compassion, it should be processed as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79391	Thank you very much. Boris Blazekovic, replica. I'd like to hear a little bit of what anyone's saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79392	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A fellow Horvat, related to morality and ethics, we have heard here today a statement that is ethical at least, which is that this government enjoyed the misfortune of flooded people. This blast is simply impossible to pronounce in this situation at all, and this coalition certainly won't defend anyone to say whatever they think and whatever they think they need to say and say publicly. This coalition certainly won't threaten non-experienceds with various bans and openings of various caves. This coalition is not about people who never wanted this country but about people who fought for the Croatian state and for the freedom of Croatian citizens in the Homeland War. One who speaks the opposite, does not speak the truth, knowingly deceives and irresponsiblely harasses the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79393	... in the replica. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And Josip Djakic, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79394	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Horvat, you've been talking about how not some people are correct who are publicly published on your site and clearly says who is who in your organization, who is president, and that's a member. You do this... Why didn't you take it off the page? Why is... on that page worth having the president of your party's city organization? But you and her will prove it in the next procedure in front of those who should have known. When you talk about the proportion in the conduct of state attorneys in criminal proceedings and the initiation of those crimes in war crimes and rapes, I don't know what kind of proportion this should be in the initiation of proceedings with regard to aggression..., Serbia and... Chetnic formations on the Republic of Croatia. What is this supposed to be a proportion in the conduct of criminal acts conducted by the state's attorneys? I just want justice and justice to be equal for everyone, to use all the agreements signed between the state's attorneys, to use international red warrants and bring to court those who are perpetrators, and they are sheltered in the Republic of Serbia or Republika Srpska in BiH. They must come before the face of justice, before the Croatian courts and answer for the works they have done, not as they are walking today, both in Vukovar and in the village of Bor, and also in my Slatin, and there are as many as the Pakrac and defiances of the afflicted and the victims of the Croatian people, even mock the victims. That's what I'd like it to stop, and that's what I'd like it to be fairer and fairer and this kind of surveillance of...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79395	Replication response, Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79396	I thank my colleague Djakic. So, I fully agree with you, justice and justice is the basic... which is also the fundamental interest of our members of the Serb minority community in the Republic of Croatia. Justice and justice is something that can solve things in the right way and can take down... and collective guilt that is still present today in some kind of social perception of these relationships. So, justice and justice, but I must also remind you when it comes to justice and justice, which is with justice and justice for victims in Kiev, for sacrifice in Osijek, Vukovar, Brod, Vinkovci, Pornić,... Dubravi, Topolaci, etc.? They wait for justice and justice, I absolutely agree with you and now I sign that the basic postulate is justice and justice in solving, processing crimes from a period of war. I said here that 99% of criminal charges were filed and first-degree procedures were carried out... It's not justice and justice, the profession will say it. In repeated proceedings, these first-degree rulings are often abolished with new witnesses, with better quality processes and discussions a different final decision is made. Now that is justice and justice, and I fully support you in that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79397	We ended the debate, and I will remind you in the end that I am concluding the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers because we are so far away from the topic that if someone is watching us, they don't know what we're discussing. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79398	Proposal for a Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers, First Reading, P.Z. No. 668. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the next conclusion. Proposal for a Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, who's in favor of this conclusion? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find the proposed conclusion accepted by most votes, 82 votes in favour and 26 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79399	And now, according to the agreement between the clubs and the minister, we will discuss in a united debate - the final draft law confirming the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the exchange and mutual protection of classified data, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 661 - Final proposal for a law confirming the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Finland on mutual protection of classified data, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 662 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received a proposal for action. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Introducing the bill... The minister says there's no need to explain the proposals in the opening. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. The first is SDP and counterpart Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79400	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club of Croatia will support the proposal for a law on the confirmation of contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the exchange and mutual protection of classified data, as well as the Proposal for a law on the confirmation of contracts between the Government of the Republic of Finland and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the exchange and mutual protection of classified data. During 2006, 2007 and 2008, the Republic of Croatia adopted legislation in the field of information security which ensured the application of the necessary measures and standards in the exchange of classified data between the Republic of Croatia and other countries and initiated the process of conclusion of international contracts that exchange and protect classified data. A series of laws have been passed, the Law on the Security and Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia, the Security of Verification Act, the Information Security Act, and a series of sublegal acts. For example. The Law on the Security Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia covers the international exchange and protection of classified data. The information security law lays down the concept of information security, measures and standards of information security, the area of information security and competent authorities for the adoption, implementation and supervision of measures and standards of information security. The bodies to which the law applies have also been defined, and the same applies to state bodies, units of local and regional (regional) self-government and to legal persons with public authority using classified and non-classified data in their work. This law also provides for the establishment of specific funds for classified data submitted by the Republic of Croatia by another country or international organisation or institution with which the Republic of Croatia cooperates. The Republic of Croatia is also a member of a series of conventions and international agreements that regulate state co-operation to exchange data and information in the fight against corruption, organised crime, the prevention of money laundering, terrorist financing, the processing of war crimes but also in a number of civil-legal relations. The inevitable need is for the state to negotiate through bilateral agreements specific relations, standards, rules of mutual protection of classified data that arise together or are exchanged. This Treaty lays down a legal framework for the protection of classified data common to be created or exchanged between the Contracting Parties, the competent authorities for the implementation of the contract are to be designated, equivalent degrees of secrecy, treatment of classified data, obligations relating to national measures for the protection of classified data, mechanisms for the transfer of classified data shall be established. Specific provisions on classified contracts are also contained, the way in which visits and meetings of experts are achieved, the handling of security infringements, as in the final question of the costs incurred in the implementation of the contract. The signatures of these contracts are in principle an expression on the one hand of close foreign policy relations between states, and on the other hand the increased need for their concerted action to address the most common security issues and problems which often go beyond and beyond the national frameworks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79401	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Davor Bozinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79402	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister. I would say that it is a bit of an unusual practice that the proposing here in front of representatives of the Croatian Parliament does not find it necessary to explain the proposal on the table. Maybe not even so much for us here, but for the two states that are the signatories of this contract. I think it's a good diplomatic practice to show one review to the signatories of this contract, or these contracts, because if they didn't matter, they probably wouldn't even be signed. So Croatia is an active participant of a collective security system without cooperation, without sharing specific information that improves efforts and bilateral actors, but also broader in the fight against organised crime on the international stage. As we know, modern threats are on the one hand and diverse, they are cross-border so that cooperation on this issue increases the willingness of all to bear burdens in this fight, to face challenges and to counter or prevent challenges for international security and in this way. This Agreement constitutes a framework that promotes good governance standards, which means that giving up or neglecting some existing practice of cooperation and exchanges on ad hoc basis is already regulated first on national and then informing the other State that surveillance of information of a specific character is regulated at national level. So there is a mechanism of protection, as I said, for international co-operation. And now what I said at the beginning. Such a contract has an important bilateral context, not only in the context of joint threats but it speaks of a high level of trust that exists between states of signatories because the states that have such an agreement raises to a higher level of mutual co-operation, which is absolutely a step beyond classical bilateral cooperation between countries and I therefore think that it has also earned the introductory letter of the promoter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79403	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. We will continue the session at 9.30 a.m. on Wednesday, colleagues and colleagues to discuss the final proposal of the Family Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-23-0.u79404	Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the exchange and mutual protection of classified data, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 661. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the law of P.Z. No. 661 delivered unanimously with 98 votes in favour.
