ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86753	My colleagues and colleagues continue with the session. Today we will discuss: - Proposal for a Law on the Rights of Victims of Sexual Violence in the Homeland War, first reading, P.Z. No. 685; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this Act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on War Veterans, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Gender Equality and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received the reports at the session. Introductoryly, the bill will be explained by Defence Minister Predrag Matic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86754	Madam Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. I want to briefly show you this Law that we are here after 23 years has finally come to discuss it in the Croatian Parliament. After 23 years of war, this is the first government to deal with this difficult, demanding and very sensitive problem. We've been preparing this for a long time and that we've done a good job of confirmation and conclusions from the International Conference in London where we've been convinced that we're with ideas and embedded in the level of protection of victims from international practice. At this conference in London, she was the first vice-president of Mrs. Vesna Pusic, who has one of the few in the world to have the title of championship related to this topic. So international practice, a few just sentences about international practice. In particular, international law has developed strong instruments to strengthen social responsibility in protecting rape victims in armed conflicts. The United Nations Declaration on the Obligation to Prevent Sexual Violence in the 2013 Conflicts appeals to prevention and insists on responsibilities for committed sexual violence or the resolution of its consequences. The follow-up follows through the recently held and mentioned London Summit which resulted in the adoption of a protocol of the first of its kind on the conduct of sexual violence in conflicts, the collection of documentation and investigations that should be a practical guide to the recording of violence and which would be applied already during the conflict, making the perpetrators aware of responsibility for this type of crime. All of these talk about the imperative of regulating the issues of victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War in the Republic of Croatia, meaning in the time of 5.8.1990 to 30.6.1996, which the issue has remained open for more than 20 years. Therefore, all the requirements of international law have been incorporated into this law and that is, on the definition of sexual violence in line with the Istanbul Declaration and the links to armed conflicts, the separation of criminal persecution from the reparation and types of reparation. The application of the law applies to persons who have survived sexual violence in the Homeland War in the territory of the Republic of Croatia or during captivity in an enemy camp and prison outside the Republic of Croatia and who at the time of their entry had residence and citizenship of the Republic of Croatia. The perpetrators of the crime are all the armies involved in the Homeland War. The basic rights prescribed by this law, I will list them as tax, psychosocial assistance, primary legal aid, health care, compulsory and supplementary health insurance, medical rehabilitation, annual medical system review, accommodation in veterinary centres that we soon open first in Lipik, accommodation in veterinary centres like I said, cash compensation and other monetary rights. The monetary rights referred to in points 8 and 9 shall be exercised under a special law to be adopted within one year of the date of entry into force of this law and the foundation for payment of money rights shall be established. Fund funds will be provided from the state budget as well as donations from international organisations and states. Other rights are derived from the budget of the Ministry of Defence. A few words about the victim's status procedure. The procedure shall be initiated by submitting a request within 5 years and in which it shall be decided by the Ministry of Defence with the previous opinion of the Commission. The commission consists of lawyers, psychiatrists, psychologists and other persons with experience and affinity to work with war victims, specifically victims of sexual violence, or experience in the work on criminal cases of that topic. The role of the commission is important because, in accordance with international practice, there is no condition for compensation of the victim with the processing of the perpetrator. The difficult process of proving sexual violence, therefore for more than 20 years, cannot be only on the official person who conducts the procedure in the ministry because he does not have the skills to determine the authenticity of all evidence or the truthfulness of the facts on which the party is based on the request and is therefore required, of course, the opinion of experts. Finally for this part, the victims must no longer wait for at least this part of justice to be achieved, which is one of the instruments of strengthening social responsibility towards the victims of these heinous war crimes spent 23 years. This is a law that we can call the law of the heart, the law of respect and recognition of suffering. Thank you very much. Only two sentences of the supplement, so in advance and as far as anyone thought about discussing this part, we can also discuss this, in Article 4, we will be slightly happier and more skillful to define the perpetrators, possible perpetrators of these war crimes and in Article 26 when it comes to citizenship, since at the time of the events some person could not have citizenship. We will predefine it to a place of residence, or residence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86755	Thank you. Now we'll hear the replicas. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86756	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, here are really congratulations on the initiative to put this bill on the agenda in front of this House of Commons. But I do have to notice in some way that this theme is extremely sad and heavy, it's full of pain, hiding, I'm afraid it's kind of the law. The law hides the important things that should have been entered into it, which is cash compensation no matter how many victims and victims or victims. It's completely unclear for me to set a five-year deadline when this work is practically subject to international standards and rules of war crime. The rape committed in the war is a war crime and in any way cannot be restricted by any deadlines or by these five years. Also, the commission is not sufficiently precise, so please explain whether this commission is state-owned, operating under the law, as well as the foundation. The funds for this topic are extremely important, in which way it will be provided. They have to be permanent, they have to be insured, they can't just depend on donations. Also veteran homes, great stuff, great, but they're gone, they're not founded by law. So putting them here, announcing them, and not being founded is the same problem. Therefore, I ask you to explain it a little bit better already at the beginning of this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86757	Replica response, Minister Predrag Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86758	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, just a brief answer to your question. So as far as cash compensation is concerned, of course we've all been thinking about it, and we want the cash compensation to be decent and dignified, but according to the research done by the Faculty of Philosophy, the Department of Sociology, it's about numbers up to 2,500 victims ahead to be able to be. So we want that fee to be decent and dignified, so we can't fly before we have real, so that figure information can go from a few tens to a few thousand. So, for the sake of responsibility, we had here, and in this esteemed home, we had more laws in which people competed in which category of victims or the needy to give as much money as possible, and then we met the next day in front of the wall that we didn't have the means to pay it off. So already our friends from abroad, of course, that most of the costs or in that fund will be given out of the state budget, but some of our friends from the European Union and the world are interested in setting up a foundation to be able to participate in that part, and it will certainly be done properly, we have very well imagined. The deadlines of five years, so it's been 23 years since the maximum number of sexual abuses, so in the next five years, we're a small country, we've predicted even a deadline beyond that deadline if it's really necessary, but within 5 years we'll be convinced we're all reported. Members of the commission will be professional people, as stated in the law, we do not have to doubt that. And the veterinary centre we put in place, so before this law is passed, the first veterinary centre in the Republic of Croatia will be opened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86759	Thank you. Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86760	Thank you very much. So I didn't believe my ears first when I heard it, but obviously we in Croatia still can't accept a unique terminology for something. It is not clear to me that the Croatian defence minister can say that the perpetrators of the crime are all the armies involved in the Homeland War. Only one legitimate army participated in the Homeland War, the other according to the Homeland War Declaration adopted 12, 13 years ago in this House of Commons unanimously, have their own treatment. And it would be good if the government's representatives were to propose laws to then use exactly the terms they are. You can think what you want, it's your right. Another thing, Mr. Minister, you can rhetorically say whatever you want. If you say you're offering new rights, then you can't write in the law that you don't need additional funds. It's simply not true, because for all of these aids that you say will get victims will be paid from the state budget or HZZO, but since those rights if they weren't so far, then those new rights cost something, and you have to state it inside because whoever else is going to pay those funds will be in a lot of trouble tomorrow because there aren't any of these funds. Also, write it like this for a fund that should help the victims, don't be angry with it just funny. And secondly, you in the government should finally learn that you have passed a revised fiscal responsibility law which simply tells you that you have to make a fiscal assessment of certain laws and you can't speak here demagoguely, and tomorrow when the budget is made, you simply have to be inside.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86761	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86762	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister, the very name of this law, the bill on the rights of victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War, says that you are overjoyed and that Mrs. Pusic has received all the congratulations. You as a war minister say you're also a participant and is a participant in the Homeland War. So how could you immediately allow this reading to be so tendingly listed in Article 4 and forgive Article 4 that I do not read it among others that are hidden from the regular forces of the Republic of Croatia. And they hide in reality the real aggressors that were in the Homeland War, which are Montenegrin, Serbian and other hidden aggressors. It's inadmissible for us at the club. And for me, it's inadmissible, because it's trying in some way to make a parallel that it was part of a strategy in the Homeland War. Mr. Minister, you know very well that the Homeland War had no strategy for rape and torture, but that it was a defense war. So once again, I ask you to state, in a new, final version of the law, all those who were aggressors to the Republic of Croatia. It is necessary to preserve the purity of the Homeland War, for all those killed, but also for all the victims in this Homeland War. It's necessary, Mr. Minister, and we can't be proud of what we have. We did, we need the law to, but we need to write it honestly and honestly, not tendingly hide the truth. and to list Croatian soldiers as participants... [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86763	Replica response, Minister Predrag Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86764	Thank you very much. So I said in advance for Article 4 that we'd make a little happier definition. But here's what you said yourself, so I'll just repeat what you said. This law must cover all victims. The perpetrators, so there's no one. If you're trying to go to it, there's no equalization, no perpetrator, no victim. However, we must understand and accept that the military, our army, and all the enemy armies that were involved were involved in the war conflict. It's hard to count who's showing up here. I'm from Vukovar, and you've noticed it well, and so I know who attacked us all well. However, I would spend one entire page just to list all groups, paramilitary units that participated in the aggression against the Republic of Croatia and I'm afraid they would never miss anyone again. Well, for example, we don't cite members of the Dušan Silni squad, and then if we catch him responsible for the rape he says so I'm not even listed here. In any case, we'll try to get that definition even better, but the system isn't sewn but the neck needs to understand that we want to protect all victims of sexual abuse here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86765	Don't throw your colleagues out of the bench. This is a very delicate law, and it doesn't need to be politicized. Let's try to concentrate on making the law as good as possible with the proposals. This is the first reading. Please! Hope Murganic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86766	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister. This is an extremely important task, the law for the Republic of Croatia. It's important for the reason that this law will recognise the status of the victims of sexual violence. It's important because it's going to be defined as a war crime. I think we'll all agree that it's good to pass the law after two readings. And indeed vice presidents, let this first reading be one of our public debates, to pass a law that we will be proud of, which will be the reputation and example of those countries that have no solution to such a difficult problem. But who, correcting one great injustice, will avoid bringing injustice to some other groups. Ministers, we appreciate your defensive status, and therefore we invite you to start with the very name in the opening part of the law, not to correct the wording. You say you'll write it more skillfully. We can only adhere to what stands in the preamble, in the Declaration of Homeland War, where we know who the aggressor is, where aggression is known to be the cause, and that the Homeland War is just the answer to that aggression. And if we really want to say that we are passing the law as moral compensation and restoring dignity to the victims, then certainly in this law, not in any particular one, but in this one we must define monetary fees and cash rights. And for that as well as for all state budgets, they'll have to have funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86767	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86768	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President, Mr. Secretary. It is certainly necessary to welcome the adoption of this law, but I would not like it to be a fig leaf, but that victims of sexual abuse during the Homeland War really get their moral and psychological and financial satisfaction. It is good to hear opinions and to have a constructive discussion in order to correct all this in the second reading, and you have already noted in your opening presentation that you would change Article 4 or Article 26 and enter an additional category of residence, or residence in the Republic of Croatia. However, Article 33 states that the Commission gives an opinion on the existence of sexual violence by acting on the request of the ministry and on the basis of medical and other documentation. Now, the question is whether it was possible during the war to actually get such medical documentation or adequate medical documentation, you might need to consider maybe predicting a testimony, testimony as correctness to the victim, as regards this article 33. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86769	You're discussing the law through replicas. Replicate the minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, colleague Nada Murganic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86770	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I will present my views and suggestions on this proposed law. As in the replica, I will repeat that the Law on the Rights of Victims of Sexual Violence in the Homeland War is an extremely important law, as they recognise the status of victims of sexual violence but it is also recognised that this is a war crime that has arisen as part of military tactics. The law is in discussion in two readings, and I call on all parliamentary representatives and MPs to make their proposals and remarks and to contribute to its improvement to the law that we will really be proud of. What is more important, however, is that it is necessary to pass such a law that will allow victims of sexual violence during the aggression against the Republic of Croatia, with the recognition of status, to the extent possible, and if at all, one fair fee is possible in a single amount, which will be evidence of the country's socially recognised suffering and apology for all the horrors that they must, therefore, in the name of the State, in the name of the defence during the defense. Also, the law also requires the right to regular rent, since the vast majority of these victims are largely in a very difficult material position to enable them to settle the cost of life and how much they return to the quality of life. We highly appreciate the efforts of all those who have contributed to this law in the parliamentary procedure. I express my respect to the Associations of Women in the Homeland War, the woman of Vukovar, the Association of "Suncica" and many others who have had the courage to admit what happened to them, report their villains and in this long and difficult journey we know for years and have made the local public, world humanitarian organisations, domestic political factors to the existence of injustice and the need for moral and material compensation of a large group of people. In the Homeland War, the Republic of Croatia suffered a number of destructions and huge human casualties. The material goods have been restored, some wounds have healed, some victims or their families have been paid or cash compensations are still paid, but one part of the victims have not been compensated or paid attention, and these are the victims we're talking about today. Sexual abuse is a crime most powerfully affecting the victim because it affects her dignity, and they are mostly suffering in silence, in fear of acknowledging it since the social ones are then stigmatized, and the fact that their criminals are walking beside them also makes it even more difficult to admit it. What is important to point out that these were not controversial events, it was part of the enslavement tactics. It was necessary to humiliate members or members of the defeated people because rape is a murder weapon of war that has worked for decades after the end of the armed conflict. Some wounds, body growth, psychological traumas are as present every day as they were when they occurred. Victims are mentally and physically disabled, incapable of family life, unable to reproduce, give birth, and work. Sexual violence in our occupied territories, because a quarter of the Republic of Croatia was occupied, was part of the planned genocide. Where they were occupied were camps and prisons, where camps and prisons were sexually abused. According to some records, the minister himself said, it is estimated that such victims could be between 1500 and 2500, the DORH recorded 67, processed for such crimes is only 15. Normally, though, the victims of both male and female sex were more of a member of women, or female. The HDZ Club will support the first reading of the bill. In this debate, we expect similar or similar proposals from the HDZ Club's ranks of all representatives from other clubs and independent representatives in order to pass the law in good faith and intent towards the victim and to correct the wrong done to this group, but also what I have already said in the replica, not to repeat the injustice to others. We therefore feel it is necessary to change the term Homeland War in the title of the law that the Homeland War is the cause of sexual violence and without mentioning the armed aggression against the Republic of Croatia which was conducted and implemented by JNA, Serbia, Montenegro and part of the rebel Serbs in Croatia, which clearly specified this House in the preamble of the Homeland War Declaration. We repeat that aggression was the cause, the Homeland War was the answer and this is the name proposed for discrimination against the Homeland War and defenders, and in the name of the law, we propose an amendment that reads: "the bill on the rights of victims of sexual violence during the aggression on the Republic of Croatia in the Homeland War." Accordingly, we propose an amendment to Article 1 so that it reads: "This law defines sexual violence committed during the armed aggression of Serbia, Montenegro, JNA and part of the rebel Serb population in the Republic of Croatia for the period 5.08.'90. until 30.06.96. in the area of the Republic of Croatia or during captivity in camps and prisons outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia where the rights of victims of sexual violence and the procedure for the exercise of those rights are governed. And according to this article, Article 4, we suggest that the perpetrator of sexual violence and belonging military and paramilitary forces, therefore a military person or a civilian who is supported or forced by a military person to commit sexual violence. It is unacceptable that a Croatian law explicitly defines as possible perpetrators of the crime of Croatia's armed redistributive force, and does not define the enemy, as if Croatia had attacked an undefined enemy. Whoever the aggressor is, I repeat again, stands in... the Declaration of the Homeland War. Article 11 sets out all possible rights which the victim may obtain by recognising the status of the victim. I stress that there is always good and needed and welcome psychological help, but most of the victims have used them in this time. Health care was also used because in the Republic of Croatia on any basis, which is fortunate, every citizen has health care and through these rights has been used and health services, rehabilitation treatments and the like, accommodation in various institutions is welcome, but part of our victims also has their families and are not even motivated to leave the family. Veteran institutions are certainly welcome, so far they are gone, we support and we are pleased with this opening of the facility in Lipik. However, what is important and what is the purpose of exercising the right to the status of victims of sexual violence, there are monetary fees and other money rights that can and must be regulated by this law. In Article 21, this should also be the case and the addition of a special law should be deleted. There is no need to regulate monetary rights and cash compensations by special law if they are implemented through the law, then and if not by law, the sublaw may also adopt rules under which they can and must be implemented. And certainly the funds for these cash compensations should be provided by the state budget, not tied to some foundation for which the funds are not safe, but the foundation certainly accepts, but for some other rights that would be an upgrade to these basic material rights. Therefore, Articles 25 and 39 are not required from what I said earlier. Article 28, which states the deadline for submission of applications, is not necessary because if sexual violence is caused by a war crime, it does not become obsolete. Also, to tie the victim to a deadline when he decides to report such a serious crime, such a severe trauma we know that because of the nature of this trauma is mostly impossible. Some victims immediately admitted to being sexually abused, some will admit, and some may never face it. Article 29 states in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, the ministry which provides a solution to the determination of status and rights, and based on the opinion of the Committee for giving an opinion on... sexual violence, but there is no possibility of appeal. We believe that a two-stage procedure should be put in place if it is implemented under the Administrative Procedure Act, as it is referred to the appeal by the initiation of the administrative procedure as set out in paragraph 3. The administrative procedure is a long and expensive process and we think it may be the same... and that it is not written in good faith that the victims get their rights as soon and as easy as possible. Article 5 of the same Article is contrary to Article 11, paragraph 1, point 8 and 9 which states that victims whose status is established may obtain cash compensation and other cash rights. It should be read in a way that clearly states that the victim is entitled to a one-time payment of 150 thousand kuna and a monthly fee of 2500 kuna. This is modelled by some countries, and the calculation has also been based on the number of years since the date of trauma, and not from the day and time when status has been recognised because so the wounding and all other rights that have been achieved and all other victims related to this period of time have been recognised. Article 33 should also provide for testimony as a good will to the victim, since war circumstances were such that there were no during the occupation and captivity of any doctors, no departures to the doctor, could be obtained adequate findings or checks, and at least for such types of violence and injuries as sexual abuse. As a result, in some cases there are only witnesses to violence and we repeat in a sign of goodwill towards the victim, we should also introduce that you can also be very significant in the exercise of the status of victims of sexual violence. Article 34 provides for compensation from the State budget only for the party for which the procedure has been conveniently completed, while for which it is not, the party itself will bear the costs which may in any event further affect its decision whether to initiate the procedure at all because we know that those persons do not have the means to live. Therefore, the cost of the procedure should be recognised on the burden of the state budget regardless of its outcome. Article 36 is not clear. In this law, it should not even be stated, this is a law for victims because, as it is written, it creates doubt and leads to the conclusion that the status of the victims and the solution they will receive when it is carried out is not valid evidence in a possible case against the perpetrator of sexual violence, even more so, it is the impression that it is possible to recognise the status of the victim without the perpetrator being convicted and that this solution will not be any evidence in his trial. What we must immediately insist on, as well as the adoption and implementation of this law, is that, with the necessary adequate compensation for victims of sexual violence, we should insist on the persecution and punishment of perpetrators. The victims know the names, the victims give the testimony, those statements stand in drawers, and the perpetrators are at large. If we give the victims status, if we grant them the right to compensation, and if we convict the criminals only then we give them back their dignity and correct this injustice that has been going on for many years. And lastly, colleagues and colleagues, let us not be afraid to accept such a law with these amendments that we have proposed. Let's not be afraid of the burden on the state budget because these victims have submitted much more to us and let's give them credit.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86771	We're going to the replicas, we've got 11 of them. Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86772	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, it is true that you said that these were not controversial events, it was a strategy because the book "Suncica", which was published, reads: "30,000 people were imprisoned in Serbian concentration camps, of which there were three thousand women and 500 children. The youngest raped girl was only 6 years old and the oldest woman was 80 years old." Have you, then, observed well in your debate not only cause bitterness and bitterness and does this not give us the right to ask for the preservation of the sanctity of the Homeland War but also of every sacrifice and of men and women? The fact is that both women and men were raped in the war, and even more devastating is the fact that they all had to remain silent because they suffered the condemnation of the environment in which they lived. And now we have several hundred requests from women who are raped who are experiencing their psychological drama and life drama, and there are some men who will surely be much harder to admit this crime. But this law, as you say, needs to open up space so that everyone can participate in, that everyone can honestly and publicly address the prosecution, that everyone can expect not to be offended, that all of them and those men and women were defenders in the Homeland War in our honorable Homeland War. And by whom and by whose aggression? Serbian, Montenegrin and all others.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86773	Thank you. Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86774	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Murganić, I am pleased that you are immediately at the beginning of the rally that we will support this law and I don't think that this topic simply deserves today a political crackdown, and apparently by the number of reported replicas it will be and I have answered the line and will no longer answer, for the simple reason to call all my colleagues and colleagues, if we want this law to be passed and to help those women who have been killed then let us prove it when we adopt the state budget. and give at least today out of the pietate to these injured women, let's give up the political bickering, but let's prove that we want this law to live, let's prove that when the state budget is being passed and already in the 2015 budget, let's secure the funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86775	I agree with you colleagues because that's what I said in the introduction, but half the replicas are your club. A colleague of Nada Murganić's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86776	So here I don't know, my position would be different why we should be afraid of replicas, replicas can be well-intentioned and replicas will be potentiated by what we want to point out and what we want to agree on about this law. Of course this is a subject that we need to talk about and talk about with piety and respect, otherwise it's a fake of what we're going to write and it won't even be credible what we all wanted to achieve together with this law. I repeat that these are debates, I repeat that we do not need to be afraid of over-insults of applications to resolve the status of victims of the Homeland War because we all know that recognition that someone has been sexually abused is extremely difficult. And in ordinary civil sexual abuse and rape where it might happen once, this has happened for days, months of a few dozen different people. So it's about one weight of a specificity that we really need to say that we're a responsible society and recognize one status as a socially responsible confession.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86777	Tomislav Ivić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86778	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Vice President. My colleague Murganić, I agree with most of what you have said, above all all all all all all all the praises for a bill like this at all, but I think it is from your debate that the law is not well prepared or prepared enough and it is obviously from the arguments that have already been made through these replicas. So there is no financial assessment of what fellow Shucker said and every law must have a financial assessment and it is unsustainable for Mr. Minister to mention here the money and the means necessary to ensure the implementation of this law are not mentioned at all. You said that about two and a half thousand women would eventually exercise the right. If that's the number, that's the amount that's certainly not going to question the state budget. This is the amount that can and must be found in the state budget because we have found and passed laws that have significantly more burdened the state budget than this law would possibly be. No fund but the resources of the state budget, it is the only solution that material compensation to victims of sexual violence can be resolved in a fair, long-term manner. So no fund will solve this particular fund which will not have and here in the law does not mention the secure sources of charge at all, so the only solution is the state budget and the state budget item at the Croatian Defence Ministry that will provide for the exact amount to make up for the victims. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86779	Hope Murganic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86780	Dear fellow I know that today's crisis is really not popular to burden the state budget for everything that is deemed not necessary, but this is absolutely necessary. And what I said at the end of the debate, let's not be afraid of it because it's 20 and a few years ago so many months of financial resources that these victims, those women and men were unable to work, couldn't do. So when it all comes together, then it's not so much the amount that I've felt here that it might have astounded someone when we said it. Is it 2500 persons, so that there are so many estimates that they have as victims and that they will all achieve that status, so there is a procedure that may justifiably or perhaps subjectively and unwarrantedly make it impossible. Whether they'll all get that status at the same time, same day, same year, so of course they won't. We already have several women who have admitted this and who have documentation that is somehow new The Commission can, with this documentation, not to go through new torture, new testimonies, new traumas, not to throw out new stress and new ones at the end of the shame because yet it is experienced and experienced in some environments and in some people we can already put into the budget and solve the rest as time comes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86781	Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86782	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues in the report, therefore, mentioned the situation of war crimes cases prosecuted in connection with the rape crime, so in the last year, there were 59 reports of which 57 counts for war crimes, not rape, but all. In 2013, a new 37 applications were received, 3 were rejected, 37 warrants were issued, mostly by the state's attorney's office, and the report complained that there was insufficient documentation, that there was insufficient evidence. It is known that a number of women are very courageous and have reported this crime, however, investigations go very slowly, very hard. And now that you compare these 59 counts for the crime of war crimes and from the documentation of NGOs and the UNDP somewhere between 200 and 220 children was born as a result of a rape crime. Then the question arises where these investigations go, where all this goes away, and why this is not rightly stimulated for processing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86783	Reply to the replica Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86784	So here's a respected colleague of parliament, these figures just confirm what I want in this debate pointed out that there are really no such crimes reported, that it's hard to prove, that the processes are really painful and tiring, that there's not enough evidence, we can't exclude any forensic evidence or materials from that time. That is why I stressed that this law must allow the recognition of status, so the procedure also takes into account the testimony because I don't know on which other material evidence or documents could prove after 20 years and a few years of rape that we know there are, women know, women testify, women know their villains, they get lucky every day, so even some don't feel ashamed that they are, even praised, they threaten again. So this is, I repeat, what we all said is a specific law, and we need to think about all these aspects well, and maybe when we bring some provisions out of some common frameworks and how something can be proven hard.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86785	Vesna Sabolic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86786	Dear counterpart Murganic, you suggested that the title of this law should not be referred to as the Homeland War because it may have negative or I misunderstood. But in any case, I think this name of the law should remain because it speaks directly to the problem of which it is concerned, each name must speak directly about what is in this law. I don't think there's anything that could compromise my reputation or diminish the importance of the Homeland War, war is war, we know that there are victims, and precisely because of what needs to be said, we should talk about the horrors of war, I think this name should remain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86787	Hope Murganic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86788	If it stands in the name of only the Homeland War, then it is accepted and viewed in a negative context. That's why we wanted to point out during the armed aggression in the Homeland War because Homeland War is the answer to armed aggression. Whether something can reduce or not reduce the sanctity to which we bind memories of the Homeland War, these days you know it yourself, can be seen as such. For the purpose of avoiding it, for the purpose of truly real truth and potential truth, I think it's good to put armed aggression into the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86789	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86790	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Murganić, I was just about to start by saying that I am glad that you noticed that it is not behind the victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War and during the aggression on the Republic of Croatia which would be good. You noticed this article in 36th, it's good to talk about it. A decision laying down the status and rights of this law does not assume the criminal responsibility of the perpetrator and does not affect the decisions of the competent authorities on the fact that the act of sexual violence is committed. That Article 36, in my opinion, is contradictory. What kind of country are we to recognize the status of the victim without the perpetrator being convicted? I assume that's binding on the State's Attorney's Office, persecuting the perpetrators of criminal acts. I think that's how it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86791	It's the second law. Replication response, Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86792	Well, that's why I'm here, and I'm suggesting here's the minister, probably legal experts might be in it more professionally, that maybe that article shouldn't even stand. I've asked on committees representatives from the Ministry of Defense to clarify this law to us who are not lawyers, we're layers, here's what really points to this conclusion, and that's not good. The law is dedicated to the victim, the law doesn't say much, it's not meant for crimes. There's an interpretation that this right will not be exercised in criminal proceedings because it would take so long, I don't know how long. Therefore, this solution will not be the result of criminal proceedings against a potential perpetrator, but it is concluded that this solution will not have any power in the evidence against a potential perpetrator, which I do not think is good.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86793	Sonja König, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86794	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of our Parliament. My colleague Murganic, you were talking about the need to bind nationality to the perpetrators of the crime. In my opinion, with the perpetrators of crime, we need to tie the name and last name and worst possible conviction and punishment, not nationality. The guilt should be individualised, the guilt must be individualised because in the war, women and men rape and members of the friendly army and members of the enemy army and civilians, including members of the peace forces.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86795	Hope Murganic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86796	Dear colleagues, I have not mentioned at all in my entire debate a single word of nationality, and I will agree with you that the victim is a victim, one and any nationality and a criminal is a criminal, either one or any nationality. But it's not in this law at all about the nation of nationality, and I'm not happy if I'm going to realize that you deliberately imputed it to me. I can give you all the material that I've been reading for a while, and there are phonograms. I insisted, and we will insist that when it comes to the aggressor of the Republic of Croatia that it is simply prescribed from the preamble of the Homeland War Declaration and there is no mention of nationality. Read it. I beg you, here's what I'm not happy to hear, and I wouldn't like the debate to start in this tone right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86797	Franco Vidovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86798	I thank the esteemed vice president. A colleague of Murganic, therefore, as he said and the minister, this is a law of the heart, a law that recognises suffering and ultimately gives public recognition to all the victims in some way, with compensation, with everything that goes with it. However, what I am interested in is in principle a matter of consistency. What is the right attitude of the HDZ, the one on the War Veterans Committee when you did not support the law or the one on the public stage that you will uphold the law? I'm glad you're gonna uphold the law, that's good. This law should have been passed long ago, but I'm interested in what your right attitude really is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86799	Hope Murganic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86800	On behalf of the club and my personal name, I can say that we will support this first law reading. Indeed, we feel that it is very good and appreciate the efforts of all those who have worked hard to bring this law into the parliamentary debate. What's not, and you can see from our proposals, what doesn't support these are parts of this law. We have made concrete proposals that we want to include it, and I hope that we will all agree together when we vote in that final proposal because it is very important for us. Our position is to support first reading, but we also expect the debate to crystallise better solutions at last.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86801	Gordana Sobol, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86802	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Murganic, I'll put it this way, personally I'm actually very proud, really proud that we've finally come to the opportunity to have a bill like this before us. I sincerely regret that, in fact, and I publicly said that two years ago at a convention in Vukovar, I sincerely regret that 20 years or something less than a year ago, the institutions of the state did not recognize this problem at all. I sincerely regret that women today, all victims and men, rapes and other sexual crimes committed during our Homeland War have to go through a series of tortures over and over again. What I also regret when Croatia was in some better times in the financial sense that we also did not take care of these victims. As this law will ultimately look, I believe that everything that has been in the debate will later be some basis for the possible and the completion of this law. But this is what I'm interested in. You said the amounts you're proposing as a representative club. That is, if at this time they were all victims of 375 million one-time payments and 75 million annual monthly fees. But I'm interested in when you mentioned the countries where it was handled in a similar way, please tell me which countries it is. In this area, only Bosnia has passed one law that does not first, today there is no way to implement and the other is not covered by all the victims. I don't know any other country that's passed a similar law this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86803	Hope Murganic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86804	Here, thank you. Comrade Sobol, I know you want to warn us in the time that we all lost together when we weren't in earlier times like you said when the better funding was if I understood this law. So I'll quote you. Once you have answered me in one replica that for a good law are always good times, and I repeat that the amount that you multiplied with what I suggested will not be suddenly in one year because it is impossible technically to implement it. So I repeat, we don't have to be afraid of the burden on the state budget. But we didn't do what we didn't do, but now we're doing it, so let's do it right, so we don't expose the victims to unnecessary suffering for one solution that maybe if we had this attitude, a thrifty attitude towards these victims will be a dead letter on paper. Which country? Bosnia and Herzegovina has resolved the settlement of regular cash fees. Well, if Bosnia could, so can we. And as for such fees, I must honestly admit, and we like to compare these are Nordic lands.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86805	Hrvoje Neklic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86806	Here's a colleague that, for the first time, a law like this is passed, and here's where I totally have to agree with my colleague Shucker when he said that we really should all give up unnecessary politicizing. However, I must react to a thesis where it tried to slip through to hide the aggressors in this law. See, I think it's just unnecessary and that no one really has any intention of hiding the aggressor. We all know very well who the aggressor was and what crimes he committed. About the debate in this law. Thus, victims of such violence truly deserve the utmost respect of all of us, and in this way we all need to treat them. I'll emphasize this is the first reading. By the second reading, it will be a great deal of time for the law to be brought into line and for all your remarks and remarks from this debate to be incorporated into this law. So I really don't think any further bickering about this law makes any sense. The victims deserve our respect, and once again we really need to treat them that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86807	Then let's not replicate. Replication response, Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86808	Well, here I am not going to take the replicas as a shooting. I want these replicas to clarify maybe something that I didn't explain correctly or something that I didn't bring out enough here, so you didn't, so I don't blame you. You don't understand. I pointed out that this is a law dedicated to victims and even that article where criminals are mentioned I said there shouldn't be any. So I didn't say this law hides criminals. I can't believe I was so vague right now, and I repeat, we have a phonogram. You do, and here I can give you what I read. I don't even know how it would have occurred to me, so here's how you figured it out. I don't want it on purpose, because I don't want the debate going that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86809	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86810	Dear counterpart Murganic, you said the following in your debate in front of the HDZ club at the end of the debate, so I will try to quote you. So let's not be afraid to accept this law with amendments, so that's what you suggested in your debate. The victims of sexual violence have suffered much more for us, dear colleagues. So this government isn't really afraid. She is deeply aware of the tragedies of the victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War and recognised as a problem that so far these victims have not received adequate satisfaction. Everything I've said confirms exactly this legal proposal we're discussing today. In the debate, you made a lot of disagreements with the proposed law. You have objections to almost every article. You've also made very precise amounts of financial compensation that the victims should receive. We can almost say you brought out the skeleton of your own law. What I have to ask you is why your government has not passed this law for 23 years. Please give a precise answer as you were precise when making the remarks.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86811	Hope Murganic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86812	Well, here's my colleague. I'm still as much as we're referring to it. Let's not argue, so let's not pollemize. I expected a question like this to come, and I knew you wouldn't resist it. Well, here's what I'm gonna tell you right now. Yeah, let's not be afraid. And you are now in power and do not be afraid to accept this burden for the state budget, and we will be very happy to pay for it in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86813	And we're moving on. ... Please, please nice. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Let's not talk about those who listen to us from the gallery like this. Comrade Shuker! On behalf of the Association of Independent Representatives Linic, Vuksic and Hodzic, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86814	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I have no fear of public appearances, but for the first time, I speak with great discomfort and fear. I speak with discomfort and fear because it's a very delicate law and I'm afraid I'm not using some wrong word and that the victim's wrong word doesn't get it wrong. Indeed, this law does not allow, no one has the right to politicise with this law, and we do not need to prove it. I was on a radio show and a colleague asked how much she loved Croatia. We can't act like this. First of all, why would Predrag Fred Matic keep a secret who is the aggressor to the victims? I think it's even rude to touch him, and anyone else. So let us remain worthy as the victims remained worthy. I really thank you for the courage of the women who have spoken of this crime, I will use the word not violence but crime because I believe it to be a crime. It's a mass crime. I thank Minister Matic for having the courage to propose such a law. He's coming late, but he better come now than he never came, too late. And we are all guilty of why there was no law before, because we were able, as well as the citizens and through many other associations, to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the law and to protect the dignity of persons and women and to a lesser extent men who have suffered a great humiliation, a great torment. So you don't have to ask how you could write this, we don't get it, unheard of, we need to write it honestly and honestly. I've come to realize this law is honest and honest and that there are mistakes that we're going to make right. All these mistakes need to be corrected. Another thing, which is very important, is that 20 years after the war, after the Storm we need to prove everyone our patriotism in a verbal way, and often we do something else and every time we swear that we are real Croats who know who attacked whom, what is the Homeland War and who is who and why we should love or don't let God hate. I don't think that's necessary. There are persons of other nationalities who have defended Croatia, and we need to know that. There is uncertainty but the law, I do not agree with a colleague who uses the word either for the article or for the law, is that the law is not written in good faith. The law is written in good faith. I don't agree that you don't need a fund. With good moves, with good reason I don't believe our tycoons, Croatian oligarchs are so hard of heart that they wouldn't fill that fund, I don't believe it. These funds are very much in the Western democracies sworn by both this neoliberal government and that before the neoliberal government are very full of such funds and are very sensitive when it comes to, there are no such problems as we have. Let's commit and this law is dedicated to the victims. And we need to give these victims a deep bow. I just don't know how to react, I can't put myself in my skin, I don't know anyone close to who it happened to, but it must be scary. Because even the thought of talking about these crimes is terrible. It's probably terrible for women and men when they walk either in Vukovar or in other cities and when they see criminals walking freely in these cities, it's terrifying. But please, nice colleagues and colleagues, let's ask ourselves, what year are we? 2014 And we didn't do anything, I'm talking about all of us, about those crimes being punished. That the victims of that crime don't dig themselves every day or those criminals in their wounds. Because every time a victim sees a criminal walking around free like she was raped again. That's scary. We remained an insolent political preamble that doesn't care about what we should worry about, and we should worry, if we don't swear all the time in the sanctity of the Homeland War, we insist all the time that we should say, the aggressors were the Yugoslav People's Army and there were more armies in that war, there was a Yugoslav People's Army, it attacked us. The Serbian army attacked us, so it's the same army that took part in the Homeland War, we defended ourselves, but should it always come for a pay phone and explain here that it is. We have, we need to rewrite the preamble, the least problem is to rewrite the preamble, but this law isn't the one that's going to talk about it. Comrades and colleagues, patriotism, the truth is spoken of in other ways, in works, not words here after this speaker. I'm going to write in my own name and in the name of the club what I think needs to be changed in law, and it needs to be changed in the law of some things, but I believe, first of all, it can't be said that the persons are damaged, but the persons over whom the crime has been committed. There's smutty, there's false formulas, but it's not safe from evil intent, but it's just that it happened so, and I'm asking you nicely for dignity, especially for the victims who deserve all our attention, and after we've passed this law, I agree with those, and I need to make sure that once the law is adopted to secure the funds in the budget and fill the font and to take care of it, and not only to take care at a time when we're here in the assembly and when we address our voters. No one can collect political points on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86815	Thank you. Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86816	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Vuksic, I have come to you for a replica just to answer what some speakers are already talking about politics, politicizing, protecting the victim and what is expected of us. Is it politics that we today, and we have said that we will support this law in our first reading and we have indicated what we think needs to be changed, but is it politics to talk about patriotism, is it politics to talk about the honorable Homeland War, is it politics to ask to be called aggressor and victim? He does. He has all his name. Is politics when we talk about wanting it to be in that law? It's not politics. No matter what, you said, 20 years have passed, is it forbidden to repeat both aggression and sacrifice and our homeland, is that bad? It's not bad, you don't have to forget anything. I don't think I like Croatia more than you or anyone else here or in all of Croatia, I certainly loved it less than those who gave their lives for Croatia and those women who were in Vukovar and were on the battlefields were in camps. I even have the name Vukovarski, but I would call him not the aggressor, the greatest criminal, the greatest, who had an organized rape site, Captain Miletic. Is that evil now, is that politics? No, it's not. But those who have suffered, who have shed blood for their country and the greatest sacrifice. Both women and men who have been silent to this day and until five years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86817	Thank you. Hey, buddy, time's up. Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86818	Dear colleagues, when I spoke I didn't mean you, I didn't mean a particular club, but I'll tell you next. When I first came to doubt, Commander Praljak, which is the first time I'm saying this because I never choked, when I started wearing it to the press... to question some situations on the battlefield, about the victims, then he told me to let the victims speak. Yes, politics is, now I'm going to say specifically, if you talk a lot, and it seems a little bit, then it's politics. Then it's just talking for talking. Yes, 20 years after the war we passed this law and so let go, if and, I say, the law is not perfectly written, but I'm not saying it in a negative context because here it was said several times how could you, how could you put only one army into this law, it was said. Let's say, fellow Shucker in his first replica. Please look at that replica. Nothing, I'm just appealing let's just let it go, let's just talk about the law. How to improve it and how to make victims get their satisfaction and release victims and not dig with these replicas of their wounds because I agree with a colleague who spoke on behalf of the HDZ, they are not too high if we have something to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86819	Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86820	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague, in your presentation, you thanked yourself for the courage of the women who spoke, but there are many of them who have not spoken, both women and men, and I just think that this law is a possibility, or awareness of them and will give them courage, will give them the strength to free themselves and those guilt they probably feel and actually speak. Here, we have data that the youngest child who was raped was six years old, and the oldest one is 80 years old, the old one. When you were talking about whether or not we knew each other, you said you didn't know anyone, unfortunately, I know the lady, from my friend's mother, who was raped, and then she was about 65 years old, and I know how hard it was for that daughter, who, as a friend, and admitted to me how much she suffered, we can imagine the cocoa she was the soul of her mother who lived through it all. This law is fair and honest and we all believe it and I think one big step towards justice towards all these victims. And "sexual violence is in conflict is the oldest and least convicted crime in the world and it is time to reject the excuse that rape in war is inevitable, it can be stopped". I'm quoting this as the UN Secretary-General who spoke at a conference. And I think right now is the time, the peacetime when we can correct that injustice all these 20 years and act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86821	Branko Vuksic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86822	Dear colleagues, I agree. This law is delicate, brave, and it's exactly what you said that allows victims to feel differently. And secondly, what we need to do, we need to change the social climate in order to give victims that crime an incentive to report, to approach becoming members of a society that will not carry such a burden on their backs. These are major traumas, what I had the opportunity to learn from the media from professional literature not only for these victims but also for families, for family relations, and besides, it should be that this is a trauma finally and for our entire society for all of us it should be a major trauma. And we can't close our eyes before that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86823	Dinko Buric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86824	Thank you. Dear colleague Vuksic, you said here we live in 2014 so we should also take care of the time distance. In 2034, however, as long as there is an independent and independent Croatian state, what happened in the Homeland War will have to differ when it comes to the victims of large-scale Serbian aggression from the other victims, it will have to differ. And while the Declaration of the Homeland War is valid, which this Parliament, or the House of Representatives of the Croatian National Assembly, brought back 2000 years in which it defines the Homeland War as just, legitimate, defensive, liberative and as the war against the aggression of Serbia, Montenegro and JNA until then, in any other year, it is not possible to bear the title of the Homeland War in any word, even if it controls the same status of the victim, aggression and the aggressor himself. Because countless times there have been talks about the victims of aggression being both men and women, and precisely in the light of this, no article of this law should be questioned that even one man who may have been the victim of rape and that he was an aggressor who had the same rights as any other victim of sexual violence during the Homeland War, 2014 or any other year regardless. And I welcome the fact that this has started to work out, and in the debate, I'm going to say what I disagree with and what I'm asking for to change.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86825	Branko Vuksic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86826	Here's what I can tell you, as I said before, about the fear I'm talking about that subject, that I didn't understand you now. Are you the one who criticized my debate? I'm just saying that in 2014 we can't abuse this space to verbally prove our Croatianism or patriotism, I've talked about it. Of course, in 2020, in 50 or 3000 years, crimes should be tried. The second thing you said about the victims, the victims should have the same status, the victims, I'm talking about the victims. It is clear who the aggressors are, the aggressors you listed, the aggressors are Serbia, the aggressor is Montenegro, the JNA, which was Montenegrin and Serbian, there is no doubt there. But today we are talking about a law that needs to be corrected and what needs to be corrected in the law is that we warn the minister and make written instructions to the minister of our remarks, proposals, amendments, and that nothing else can be fixed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86827	Gordana Sobol, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86828	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Vuksic, I really support everything you said in your debate on behalf of the club and I would like to say one more time and you mentioned it yourself and that is true, we are all guilty of not putting this issue much, much earlier on the agenda. In times of time, perhaps if many victims were also alive because one part of them died in the meantime. Maybe they'd make it easier to decide, maybe they'd have more complete documentation, so maybe everything could have been easier. But I agree that the crimes committed through sexual violence of different kinds, of course, do not go out of date and victims must always have the right to be admitted to the status of the victim and to get what they belong to under the law. What I'd like to say about this law by supporting your views. The law was not made overnight, this law began to work at the Ministry of Defence somewhere early or by mid-2012, and since then the law has been prepared in great co-operation with international organisations, with UNDP with the UN, so several consultations, round tables, several international conferences not only here in Zagreb but also in other parts of Croatia. So very carefully, in detail, studioically to say so was this law being prepared. And today, we have before us this law that actually has a confession from the international community, from people who have been dealing directly with the problem of victims of sexual violence in war-armed conflicts around the world for years. And everyone thinks it's one step in treating this problem and when it comes to sexual violence.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86829	Thank you. Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86830	Dear fellow Sobol, yes, it's all our fault that the law wasn't passed before, but let's let the blame go now, this passing of time is ominous because reality warns us that there are two kinds of citizens. The war hasn't passed for the victims yet, and that's the scariest. And that's why it's so scary when someone's digging up that for these people, it's not war. And that's why I feel on the other hand, as much as I do against that violence of taking down records in Vukovar, I feel that these people are frustrated with the right because they need to look at criminals on the streets that aren't punished, the other side. But for them, the war isn't over, it's for us who haven't had direct consequences. We've had all the consequences of the war but some have had terrible consequences and we need to be the ones to help them heal those wounds as much as they can, never can and will have generations after them, to feel those wounds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86831	Tomislav Ivić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86832	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A colleague, Vuksic, can't be a solution to the fund, a fund that will depend on the mercy of Croatian tycoons. Is that a solution to a fund that won't have safe sources of income? The only real solution is the state budget and the insured funds in the state budget especially since we are here from some calculations that are ad hoc made and may have been done by the ministry,... that this is not an amount which cannot be secured in the state budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If that's 75 million kuna or 100 million kuna, so don't tell me that's an amount that can't be secured in the state budget. Let's solve the problem, solve it both in the short and long term, it's the only solution, no fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86833	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86834	Part of democracy is listening, I said fund and state budget. So the fund and the state budget. But I'm sure that our and your pledge fund, which should not only be for the crimes we're talking about today, but for the defenders, for everything the defenders need, means a defense fund that will allow them to live a decent life, which will enable them to rehabilitate, treat everything that other civilized countries have. But we need to remind those who have too much, those who have earned money and the robbery that they have an obligation to fill these funds, which is very easy to do, very easily done, and it takes political will and for that to create the kind of atmosphere that I was talking about, in which the victims will feel more dignified. And those who have, I repeat, too much help in achieving some of the rights for which the defenders and victims of the Homeland War have been suspended.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86835	On behalf of the HDSSB club, colleague Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86836	Dear Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. At the very beginning, I will say that I will not use this pay phone to prove my Croatianism or my patriotism. But I know in advance that what I'm about to say will not be liked by many. But not to say what I think should be said here not only in my own name, but in the name of many citizens, Croatian defenders, victims of the Homeland War, and especially victims of the sexuality of violence in large-serb aggression, the way I'm going to say it is the only one I know, to speak honestly what I think. At the very beginning of rape, rape not only as a crime but in itself as an act is one of the most disgusting crimes a beast in man can ever commit to another human being and rape is for every conviction. And it needs to be prosecuted, prosecuted and convicted by the perpetrators as strictly as possible, I would even say that for such crimes or the death penalty is not too harsh. But let's go back to this bill. Welcoming the sincerest Mr. Minister, the fact that after more than 23 years, someone has finally made an effort to open the subject of victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War immediately at the beginning of the debate, I must stress the significant opposition to certain provisions of this proposal of the text of this Law. The reason for this opposition is more and I will start from one of the most important that has already been mentioned in part by the dangers that certain provisions in this text of the law represent for future treatment and attitude towards the Homeland War. And I will remind you of the Declaration of Homeland War, which was then brought by the House of Representatives of the Croatian National Assembly on 13 October 2000. The preamble to that declaration reads in paragraph 4, I quote: "confirming that in the Republic of Croatia armed aggression was carried out by Serbia, Montenegro, JNA, with the armed rebellion of part of the Serb population in the Republic of Croatia", and in paragraph 2, the declaration itself states that, quote: "The Republic of Croatia has led a fair and legitimate defence and liberative, not an aggressive and conquerive war against anyone, in which it has defended its territory from major Serb aggression within internationally recognised borders". Finally, it is very important in the 7th paragraph of the declaration that the House of Representatives of the Croatian National Assembly invites all citizens, state and social institutions, trade unions, associations and media, and obliges all officials and all state bodies, and the ministry is also the state body of the Republic of Croatia, to extend the basic values and dignity of the Homeland War on those principles as a provision for our civilization future. So that declaration obliges all officials and all state bodies of the Republic of Croatia, including the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, to protect the fundamental values and dignity of the Homeland War as a provision for our Croatian civilization future. And what is disputed and inadmissible in such a proposal for certain provisions of the text of the law? This is the fact that such a proposal of the text of the law, in its individual articles, balances the victim of aggression and the aggressor itself. Namely, already in the introductory part of the text of the law, in II. The chapter "Assessment of the situation and basic issues to be regulated by law" on page 4, I quote: "The law for victims of sexual violence allows rehabilitation, while in a broader sense it will mean the establishment of social solidarity and responsibility for committed crimes, both by the aggressors and by Croatian soldiers, and will indirectly affect the criminal persecution of the perpetrators. But in the very proposal of the law, it goes further. The following shall be stated on page 6 of Article 2 of paragraph 3 of the first indent. Sexual violence referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this article is what was committed by a serious violation of the law and international-humanitarian law as, quote: "a crime committed in an armed international conflict" and now what must not stand goes "or conflict which has no international significance and which is not qualified as a war crime". We're talking about a law called the Homeland War, and we're talking about a term or a non-International conflict. Furthermore, paragraph 5 of the same article discusses the sexual violence committed under the circumstances caused by so-called direct armed conflict. The term armed conflict, not aggression, is dangerous to the possible future interpretation of the character of the Homeland War. In the law passed by the Croatian Parliament there is no armed conflict when the Homeland War is mentioned, there is aggression and it is a major Serb aggression. So I repeat and underline, the Homeland War was not a conflict that has no international character, but it is the aggression of Serbia, Montenegro and the JNA and the rebel part of the Serb population in the Republic of Croatia, as stated in the Declaration on the Homeland War brought by the Croatian Parliament. And the use of the term armed conflict instead of the word aggression or, as the Homeland War Declaration states, so which defines the Homeland War as a just, legitimate, defensive and liberating war in which Croatia defended its territory, I again underline, from great Serb aggression within internationally recognised borders. It is therefore inadmissible to the law which uses the term Homeland War in any word, let alone the character and dignity of the Homeland War, because the Homeland War is for all Croats, especially Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War is sacred. And then you can't not react to an article in this law that presents itself as the one that regulates the rights of victims and victims of the Homeland War, and I believe it was intent only to use the wrong terms, says that I quote. "sexual violence can be committed by members of the military or paramilitary forces of the enemy army or the armed and regular forces of the Republic of Croatia". In a law that speaks of the Homeland War, this cannot stand. And he can't, I said that rape is in itself the most disgusting crime a man can do towards another man and I said that even the death penalty for him is probably too mild. But to talk about the Homeland War, which is just, legitimate, defensive and liberating, which is in the declaration, and to put in the same position as the victim of aggression and the great Serb aggressor and the victims suffered by the aggressor in the Republic of Croatia by committing aggression in the same basket, this is not acceptable. Not denying the possibility that any of the aggressors were the victim, I was saying in the replica of Mr Vuksic, of the aggressor, that someone might have been the victim of and sexual violence, it cannot be allowed that according to Croatian law as an aggressor who destroyed, killed and burned in the Republic of Croatia has any rights, let alone the same rights as the Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War, as victims of their aggression. If the victims of sexual violence were aggressors, some justice and compensation are required by the application of the Penal Code of the Republic of Croatia, which treats rape as a criminal offence against sexual freedom and sexual disorder as regulated in Article 188. The penal law of the Republic of Croatia. But to give the aggressor the opportunity to exercise any right to the Croatian law that will bear the Homeland War, means to give the Homeland War the character that those who Croatia never wanted as an independent, which is civil rather than the war in which aggression was committed. Every law passed in the Croatian Parliament relating to the Homeland War can and can only regulate the rights of Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War. And those who have committed aggression against the Republic of Croatia in any way have no right to seek anything from the Republic of Croatia, let alone in a law entitled Homeland War. So did someone force the Chetts from Valev to come shoot and burn and kill in the Republic of Croatia? The villains would say they got what they were looking for. Now, I guess tears of the victims of these beasts should still be shed after what they did and did to the Croatian people during the Homeland War. These villains aren't human, they're beasts. If we give the aggressor rights under this law, what's the next step? Are we going to give the aggressors the rights to compensation for disability they may have acquired in the defence actions carried out by the Croatian Army or may compensate for the damage to the suffering of fear as their head ran no matter what they called the "mother of Serbia" when the Croatian army in the magnificent liberation actions of Flash and Storm freed the occupied parts of the Republic of Croatia. And how to interpret Article 8 of this law, which says: "The party and other participants in the procedure have the right to use their own language." What does that mean? That we may not be printing to the Chetniks any more forms to be completed by the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia on Cyrillic or fill these forms with Cyrillic. If the same rights are given to the Croatian victims of the great Serbian aggression and the aggressor himself, how do you think that these aggressors will be together with Croatian victims located in the veteran centres to be founded, so that the victim and the aggressor in the same space is the same thing as paying the rapist a hotel room and also sending him the victim he already raped as a reward in that room by force. What right to cash compensation can be spent by the aggressor from the Republic of Croatia, however he suffered during the aggression on the Republic of Croatia. Has anyone ever forced him to come here and kill in Croatia? And then while we are increasingly reducing our health insurance rights to Croatian citizens, so that they can be treated in hospitals without paying for the loans they have to pay for the additional health insurance themselves. We should pay the large-serb aggressors for the cost of the state and mandatory and supplementary health insurance. Is this the way anyone thought it would bring this way into the discriminatory position of Croatian citizens? And they are now listed in the introduction and examples of other countries, on pages 2 and 3, for example, Slovenia. Yes, the Slovenians introduced these laws, but no one says and underlines that these laws are regulated and rights days. They gave rights not to German, Italian and Hungarian occupiers but to their victims. And we need to pass a law that will equate sacrifice and aggressor in certain articles and question the character and dignity of the Homeland War. So was it not enough and an embarrassing verdict by our judiciary to Croatian General Branimir Glavas, whose reasoning of the verdict was that the Republic of Croatia was neither state until 8 October 1991 and that until then the only regulatory force was JNA troops, and that the Croatian Army and the National Guard Assembly were equal with Serbian paramilitary formations, and that it also states in the ruling of the Croatian judiciary. The Homeland War was not an international but an international conflict. So our judiciary gave him the character of civil war and now we need this. A law that will regulate the rights of victims of sexual violence in the great-Serb aggression of the Homeland War certainly does, Mr. Minister, certainly. But with the amendment of these essential provisions of certain articles, I suggest a second term to be quite clear. A colleague from the HDZ Club made her proposal. May this law be called the Law on the Rights of Victims of Greater Serbian Sexual Violence in the Homeland War because that is how the Declaration of the Homeland War defines it. For the law that gives any, let alone the same rights to Croatian victims [[Found Zgrebec: Finish your colleague.]] and we will not raise our hands to the great Serbian aggressors, and for the law that will honor our remarks, we will raise both hands. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Bring an end to the debate.]] For them, it was too much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86837	Thank you very much. Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86838	Thank you very much. You talked about this, first of all, the Declaration of Homeland War, then the terms that are very often used in both official Croatian politics and in this last few years, where the Homeland War is called armed conflict, even in some parts of the world, and also in us here and civil war. No wonder, if we know that the foreign minister said in the Sarajevo list "Days" on the cover of 24 April 2010, that the Assembly Declaration on the Homeland War should be marginalised. It's the implementation of a very sophisticated policy that actually balances the aggressor and the victim, and nothing else. However, in 2009, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted in 2009, it writes here in the material for this law, Resolution 1670 concerning sexual violence against women in the armed conflict, and above all in the countries resulting from the collapse of Yugoslavia, hence the former Yugoslavia, and that the resolution found that there was no adequate criminal prosecution of the perpetrators. That's the declaration. Here with this law you still remain in it. Because Article 36 states that solutions which determine the status and rights of this law do not assume the criminal responsibility of the perpetrator. What does that mean? So there's going to be some kind of satisfaction, psycho-social assistance, going to Lipik, but not a word about the perpetrators, let alone criminal charges. And that's a terrible thing!
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86839	Thank you. You can't punish yourself. Crime is punishable by criminal law, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86840	I didn't ask you, I gave the line to Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86841	We can't get everything into one law. Dinko Buric, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86842	Exactly, colleague Grubisic, you have cited examples of international provisions. What worries me is that we're working here in the Republic of Croatia. Mr. Minister, when I speak, and this is now about what you say, my colleague Grubisic, when I talk about possible dangers if we do not change certain provisions of this, that in the future and the Homeland War indeed becomes defined in which the victims and the aggressor will be the same. We shouldn't consider it a fantasy or a potential danger, we're witnessing it, I've been talking about it for years, these days we've been witnessing it. See what happens at the Lori trial, in a new trial for Laura, Serbian war criminals have become damages that will claim compensation from the Croatian state. And based on what? Based on the fact that we, all these years in certain legal provisions, gave them the right and equalized their sufferings with the sufferings of Croatian defenders. This isn't fiction, this is reality. In the retrial, those who have committed aggression to the Republic of Split now have the status of the victim, not the aggressor. The same could happen to us if we don't think we have an attack by a Chetnik from Užica who will come to Croatia and seek additional health insurance, they will prove that they were victims of rape with 2 or 3 witnesses and come here for rehabilitation. Are we going to open a volunteer center for them? I don't think you meant it, but it's theoretically possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86843	Thank you very much. Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86844	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I agree with you fellow Buric that in Croatian legislation, then even in this law, there is absolutely a need to avoid the syntax of armed conflict, armed conflicts. Because when we talk about the Homeland War, of course, we start from the fact that it was an aggression on the Republic of Croatia, that the Croats didn't want war and that they were exposed to a really ruthless aggression then by the third military force in Europe. So, the Yugoslav armies and, of course, everyone else. So, the armed conflict then involves civil war, which is forging history, of course, extremely sensitive in view of our lawsuit against Serbia and the connotations it causes. But the Syntagma is also the opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, so it is anti-constitutional because the Constitution in the original foundations says which are the foundations of the Republic of Croatia and among other things says victory in the Homeland War. So, the victory of Croatian defenders in the Homeland War. This syntagma is the opposite of the entire Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences, as well as the entire legislation and above all, and above all, all documents of the Croatian Assembly throughout history. So, from the independence of the Republic of Croatia to today. And I suppose the minister or the ministry will accept these remarks because this syntagma is anti-constitutional and will remove it until the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86845	Dinko Buric, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86846	I am pleased with my colleague Kosor here, after a long, long time of my conviction while you were prime minister of the dangers that some documents were, and I mean specifically, at the verdict of Croatian General Branimir Glavas, you were still representing and representing both Croatia and practice in the Croatian judiciary, but also in the genocide trial committed in Serbia's great aggression and in Serbia's lawsuit against Croatia, I am absolutely glad that you have understood what I am and why I talked about it. But now you're absolutely right when you say the term of armed conflict has to be thrown out. In Article 3, we ask nothing more than to leave only the crime committed by sexual violence in paragraph 1. In terms of this article used by the Homeland War, a crime was committed in the large-serb aggression against the Republic of Serbia, and that is clear. And in paragraph 5, you go one step at a time, but then you use the wrong term and you say sexual violence within the meaning of this law, the law bears a name in the Homeland War, sexual violence within the meaning of this law, is what was committed in the circumstances of a direct armed conflict, that is, in a causal relationship with an armed conflict. What kind of armed conflict? It is necessary to write sexual violence within the meaning of this law that was committed under the circumstances directly caused by the great Serbian aggression on the Republic of Serbia, all clear. Throw out this appointment and we've solved the problems. And this is true, these are the foundations, so the Homeland War is also the Constitution, but also the Declaration of Homeland War is the basis on which the Republic of Croatia and the Declaration... says that it is, therefore, resting on it and rests on it and a peaceful and unobstructed overall democratically developed Republic. Let us stick to what this Croatian Parliament and our Constitution have brought.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86847	Thank you very much. Mile Horvat, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86848	Thank you. Comrade Buric, you are in fact in your speech to us members of the Serb community in Croatia and helped us, so you told us clearly where we should be and you said that these, that victims of sexual violence, members of the Serb community cannot expect to consume this law. We expected it a little bit, but for a number of reasons we'd say in the debate. Jovanka Zelic Gavranovic in the middle of the day in the courtyard was an armed Croatian soldier from the neighbouring village..., she and her mother were in the room, raped me, probably boasted because soon it was reported around but no one had done anything until now. She sought protection in court, of course the court rejected her after 3 years of trial, with the reason that the verdict said there was no concrete evidence to charge the defendant, and according to the victim was not completely sure of his identity because she did not see him and had no glasses she had worn for 16 years, she probably should have worn glasses and watched as the man raped her. In addition, the court disputes the photo-based identification by stating that this is not valid evidence in the procedure. So, what do we do with cases like that? You're talking about Laura. Whoever followed the trial in Lori, read reports, or witness statements, so those 19-year-olds there were arrested at a battlefield in another country, so in Herzegovina, taken to Laura, the torture most tortured by a woman who was a prison guard there. She sexually tortured them, lived on. What about that woman in Canada who got arrested, who... lived on some people in Lori? So these are the victims we're trying to say are not victims of a sexual crime,...just because they are members of the Serbian Nationality. So, I respect you and your initiative, but obviously there's no room for these people.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86849	Thank you very much. Thank you. Dinko Buric, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86850	Yes, there is. I said sexual violence is the most detestable crime of human dignity. I should repeat what I said, what punishment for him? But I cannot exercise my rights in a law named in the Homeland War because the Homeland War, laws governing the rights of the Homeland War, should only be according to those who have defended the Croatian state, not those who have committed aggression to the Republic of Croatia. And considering that every victim and this one you set examples, and what do you think now, that I should take out all of your examples and read examples of abuse by the Chetniks and a lot of Serb aggressors? He has the right to compensation and should seek justice and deserve justice, but under the Penal Code of the Republic of Croatia, not according to the law that bears the rights of victims of the Homeland War. I repeat, we said that the aggression was carried out by Serbia, Montenegro, JNA and part of the rebel population of the Serb population in the Republic of Croatia, and it is written in the document, and as long as the declaration is valid, so it must be treated in a law that has a claim to bear anything in the name, anything related to the Homeland War. Those who did not defend the Croatian state have no right to do so. They don't have the same rights as the other victims, we have the victims, forgive our colleague Horvat, we have victims of sexual violence that aren't at the time when the Homeland War was, we didn't have at the time. Under the law that will protect victims' rights in the Homeland War, they will not exercise the right, but according to the Penal Code, so does this. I did for every conviction, it should be prosecuted, but under the second law of the Republic of Croatia because they are Croatian citizens, but they are neither Croatian defenders nor victims of the Homeland War, and when we talk about the Homeland War, the rights, with anything to do with the Homeland War, have Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86851	Franco Vidovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86852	My colleague Buriæ, so I think it's the victim's first order of the law, not the perpetrators. Rape is a war crime, and so do you and I, especially in this context that we mention. So no matter who committed it, and unfortunately there were these beasts in our uniform, I'm afraid I'm also ashamed of it. And what my colleague Horvat has now read, so no matter who committed it, should protect the victim and the victim has his rights, the victim should be respected, her dignity should be preserved at the end of the day. What I also wanted to point out to you, you were talking about a great Serbian aggressor who should come from..., from here, from there, from Serbia, who should be asking for some sort of compensation from us now, can't. Therefore, Article 26 of the Law regulates, must have either residence or residence in the Republic of Croatia, etc., etc. Therefore, it is not justified. There. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86853	Dinko Buric, reply to the replica. Franco, turn it off.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86854	We don't have to... we can just get a little across the border. They have a residence that comes to vote here. Do you think there are no potential among them who committed a crime, so there are some in Vukovar? And they're walking now, we don't have to go to Serbia. But also those who have a residence and come here to vote, based on such legal provisions, can seek additional health insurance in the Republic of Croatia. And I agree with that, any such act committed by anyone is for any conviction, but it can't be in a law called the Homeland War and that gives some rights, one that has been aggressive against the Republic of Croatia has one right, let alone the same right as all those victims who defended the Republic of Croatia in the Homeland War, they all understood that I don't have to repeat it a hundred times. That's what I think and who liked it, who didn't like it. I am for this law, with changes to these provisions and every honor to be launched at all. And the minister said well when the debate began after 23 years in the media, it finally started and I know there will be an attack. Here's when you want to do something like that, then you're going to attack again, so it turns out it's better not to do anything than do it. This is not an attack, this is an indication of errors in certain provisions of the text of this law that should in principle be supported but certain provisions should be thrown out in order not to question the future character of the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86855	Damir Cain, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86856	This law I agree is late, this law is useful, this law is necessary for me and for the victims of my court should be given the status of a civilian victim of war sexual violence. No one in this law equates the victim and the aggressor, but this speech that we had the opportunity to hear from Mr Buric only brutally, brutally falsify the victim's torment and your speech certainly contributes to nothing. We are talking about the victim here, just before I got this CD and it stands out that between 20 and 60 thousand people in the ex Yugoslavia are victims of sexual violence and anyone who is a resident of the Republic of Croatia and has suffered such humiliation of women, men, suffering, that beastly evil as you mention it must be treated equally. Absolutely Croatia is a victim of aggression and it is good for no one to dispute but on your platform I cannot believe that they can be women of Croats who have suffered this evil. In Croatia, we have between 2500 and 3000 victims of sexual violence, yes, so far, only 18 cases have occurred, and in only 4 cases, if I have accurate data, there has been a verdict. The innocent victim must have been rehabilitated was Croat, was Serbian or Bosniak, and so was that woman mentioned earlier by Mr Horvat. And if someone who did it was walking through Vukovar, raping women, he's got to be in Leprechaun the next day or today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86857	Dinko Buric's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86858	The victim is the victim of this no one questions, as it does not question one fact that we must not forget that in the Homeland War, Croatia primarily defended the majority of members of Croatian nationality, but was defended by both members of Serbian nationality and members of Bosniak nationality and members of Montenegro and other nationalities. And these victims have the right to compensation in a law that bears the name or to exercise any right not only of compensation, which bears the title of the Homeland War. All other victims also have the right to compensation under the penal law of the Republic of Croatia. But tell me, how do you think it will be possible to implement Article 20? What do you mean, we didn't work it out? Article 20 says "The user can exercise the right to accommodation in veterinary centres according to the regulations governing the establishment and use of veterinary centres", how do you think we're going to make these victims, we're going to make them special or we're going to make one? And what if they come theoretically to what I said, the aggressor who came from Valjev here and was the victim of sexual violence and wants to go to the veterinary center or doesn't have to go over the Danube just a little bit and he wants to go to the veterinary center, so who's he going to go with? The one he shot against? So don't be ridiculous or finish your article. None of the rights of those who have exercised aggression in any form, and it is known who Serbia, Montenegro JNA and part of the rebel Serb population can have the same rights under the law that will treat the rights of the Homeland War, cannot, not the same, have no right.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86859	Vladimir Shakespeare, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86860	The strong criticism has sparked the corruption set out in Article 4 by which the bill states that sexual violence can be set up by members of military or paramilitary troops, the enemy army and the armed and redistributive forces of the Republic of Croatia. Mr. Minister, can you imagine the situation when, after World War II after the collapse, Fascism has passed numerous laws and regulations governing the status of rights and victims of fascist terror, the terror of victims of Fascism, Quisling, Italian fascism, German Nazism, that in these laws it would stand in or in the laws of the conquerors of World War II so that it would stand for example that violence could be committed by members of military or paramilitary troops of the 3rd Reichs, Fascist Italy and Quinslinian formations and partisan forces of Yugoslavia or Allies, JNA it was not in history that the victims and victims' rights and the status of certain opposing military, para-military and regular formations. So you mentioned that you would fix this article, don’t fix it because it is incorrigible. Remove it completely.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86861	And colleague Dinko Buric, the answer to the replica and the replica was the minister. Here you go. ... All right, all right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86862	That's who he greets, and here I am waiting to fully agree with you, Mr. Shakespeare. I completely agree with you. I saw that I had little time left in the debate, so Article 4 was not particularly apostrophe and almost as if I were your student, so I wanted to say the same thing. You said the point, it's true, the winner of the war, the winner of the war, we are the winners of the war, we have the right to and should respect everyone's sacrifice, but the winners of both the Second and any other World War, they have not passed the laws in which they have done what Mr. Shakespeare has told you now and that I am not replicating the Minister I will continue to address you. Article 4 is, in my opinion, so I could even agree, perhaps unnecessary because Article 3, paragraph 5, what is sexual violence, and the question is whether Article 4 should be done at all. Well, of course it can be done in an enemy army unit, and that's what we have in Article 1. But as we talk about examples of other countries, we have tried to illustrate the examples of some other countries, so Slovenia said, I said, part of it. And look exactly what it says, the most on this plan was the Republic of Slovenia, which in 2001 passed the Law on the Victims of War Violence and the Law on the payment of compensation to victims of war and war violence adopted in 2004. The law refers to exiles, listen well, campers, prisoners, war deporters, interns, refugees who are German, Italian or Hungarian occupation forces of 6.4.'41. until 15.5.45. For political, national, racial or religious reasons, they moved out, sent to camp, imprisoned or sent to forced labor. There is not a single word that this law gives rights to those who were occupiers, seeking profit.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86863	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues at 12 o'clock, we're going to interrupt the debate and we're going to vote on the points discussed last week and this week, and we're going to continue the debate. And now we will hear only before the vote of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers and colleague Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86864	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. We're talking about facts here today, but the only fact we can't forget is that the truth hurts every day. What we must do is, by this law, to ease this truth to all those, and to ease this pain to all those to whom this law applies. I welcome the initiative that here after more than 20 years, the time has come to speak out loud and that we who have not suffered any of this as people are discussing this Law in order to correct all victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War this injustice and after such a long time at least in some way. The intention of passing this law is good and I don't think anyone should doubt it. The question that opens in this first reading is only one, such a law that the victim of sexual violence in the Homeland War can expect and what he can get right now, now if that law goes into effect. I think that the law is as unsettled as it is, that we haven't made it to the end of life and that it's good that this is the first reading, that the proposer hears all the comments and suggestions, that the law comes to second reading as soon as possible, that all the smart proposals are implemented and that it goes with as soon as possible. If all the time we're saying that after 20 years we've finally started speaking publicly, that this is the first government that's got the strength and the courage to even approach one of these laws, then I hope that while this government is still going to be paid and the first fees on this bill. Unless we have concrete amounts of cash, one-time fees and monthly fees that must be paid and paid to victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War, I'm afraid we've done nothing but show a good will to start solving something, that we've realized that the time has finally come for this issue to open up. But as long as we don't pay our first fees, we can't say we did anything and at least help victims of sexual violence. What saddens me is that in this law, the bill and the preface have no indication of relevant indicators. We handle numbers from slightly from 2,500 victims to 3,500, so somehow we're playing with it as if it's very important to us now whether it's as many victims or as few victims as possible. That way we can't start to do anything good. Minister, you said in your opening statement that the institute was doing a study and that 2,500 victims were mentioned. With 2,500 victims, we've been processing that data since '91. For years, at least that's how we read in some kind of paperwork. In 2001, unfortunately, many victims of sexual violence died in the Homeland War. We heard today that the youngest victim was six years old, the oldest 80 years old. Let us try to treat only one piece of information and read out how many victims are still with us. According to the UNDP 2013 survey, about 2200 victims suffered sexual violence during the Homeland War, of which only 147 cases were processed. In court, 36 of them were prosecuted, and only 15 court rulings were passed. So we're collecting the data as it can, where it comes from, and I mean, my personal opinion is that the biggest regret for this first reading of the law is that we don't have any clear indicators on which we could discuss anything quality. The HDZ Club has proposed certain one-time fees, monthly fees. How do we know if it's good, if it's bad, what kind of math can we do and what can we count on? Fellow Sobol mentioned a single amount of 375 million kuna, if we multiply these 2,500 victims for this 150 000 kuna fee proposed by the HDZ Club. We have that 375, let's assume that that's the right number of victims, that it could be 150 000 kuna, and then an additional question opens: we have money to pay off those victims or we don't. We can say that the fee will be paid in the next 3 years, every year 1/3 or in the next five years, every year 1/5, but monthly fees will be paid every month. So we were paying off a part of our pension, say, with some kind of a detour. So these are the missing data to say that this law is good and that the victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War today would get a message that in a very soon time they would actually be compensated and that they would finally receive their compensation after 20 and so many years. With no concrete data, the story of the foundation, the story of the Veterans Center, the story of a new law that will be made under this law for the compensation of these amounts, we do not do a good thing. We give the wrong message, we give the bad message and the only message we give is that after 20 and so many years in public in the Croatian Parliament, we start talking and thinking about the victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War, but we don't give a message to the victims that after 20 and so many years we're really ready to give anything to them right now so that they can get that fee. When we talk about it, about fees, there's always a question of property or not having money in the state budget, and we're always talking about not having it now, so we're going to make plans, so we're going to do projections. Col. Shuker warned in his opening statement and the government's commitment to fiscal policy, fiscal commitments, so the budget's obligation to these victims must exist. We in the state budget, if we are serious about this law, we must have the amount, the figure, we must have the number of persons to whom this fee applies. What concerns me further is this. Immediately after the Homeland War, while still in refugee camps, much of the victims of sexual violence gave their testimony. In the conversation with them, I know that these statements in the state's attorney's office have been given several times. Please, Ministers, just one piece of information later when you speak in your closing statement to say if you have any information at all about how many such statements are currently in the state's attorney's offices, to answer the question whether these victims will now, under this law, once again have to make any statements to the commission or whether the commission will use all those statements that are in the state's attorneys' archives, neatly complex, with names and last names not only of the victims but also of the perpetrators. Whether, as such, consideration will be taken in front of the commission and those victims will be granted the status of the victim of a sexual crime in the Homeland War under this law on the basis of statements they gave 20, 19, 18 or slightly less years ago. You've heard a lot of ministers here today about the proposal for articles that need to be changed. I agree with them for a great deal. You have also received a proposal to amend the articles of the amendment of the Centre for Women Victims of the Ross War. I'm completely behind them, I think they're good, and please take them into consideration until the second reading, so I don't repeat them now. And once again I appeal to all of us to really try another reading, I know it's impossible to get to the right number because the question of this law is how much the victims will decide to ask for any fee when they don't know what they can expect, what they can get, and when they can even get. I know it's hard to get to a specific number of victims to make any projections. But I really think if we give ourselves a little bit more effort, if we take everything that's in the drawers, believe me, and we all know together, you don't have to believe me, but we're all together aware that there's a lot of it. Let us try to do concrete things to another reading, so that with these specific things we give the victims a message we mean seriously and you can finally achieve your rights under this law. If we fail to do so, the truth will continue to hurt, but it will hurt even more because we will not truly show enough will and will to the end that we are truly ready under this law and act together and stand behind it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86865	Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86866	Dear fellow Tirelli, I'd really almost sign every word you've said. And I would especially like to stress, and that is, that the minister also hears this need for a cash compensation that it is still regulated in this bill. In fact, when the victims were surveyed, they generally held that it would be good for the amounts to be determined in the average amount of pensions for civilian war victims, so that it would be a desirable solution, and if the budget money did not make it possible then to consider some kind of flat-rate payment. And I think that legislator still needs to take that into account, because still money will allow for some quality change. I wouldn't bid here with amounts. They're a very sensitive thing. It could lead to some underestimation, to demeaning, and there you need to think carefully about what that amount is. However, the amount is needed to change the quality of life. Maybe you need to move such a family, maybe you need to help her open some kind of business, maybe need it to solve her child’s question. So there's a lot of alternatives, opportunities to do with those funds. And so I appeal and here I join this club's proposal to define the funds in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86867	Nancy Tyrelli, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86868	Thank you. Very short. I'm really undermining once again if we don't define the funds, whether these are money in particular, whether these are some of the needs that certain victims of sexual violence have in the Homeland War. We're not under this law I'm afraid of doing anything. We wrote something on paper, said we had a good will. However, a concrete answer to the questions we did not give these victims. Because what they get by this law is more than what they've had so far. It's a question that this law does not give a concrete answer like this, and I'm afraid that the law that we have on the benches today is even more annoying because they've been fighting for their rights all these years. Many of them are silent, but a large part of them have shown great courage and every victim of sexual violence she has spoken of has not only spoken for herself, but has spoken for all the other victims. Because everyone who gave the statement didn't give a statement solely because her victim was, to get a satisfaction for himself, but to finally update the problem, to open up the story and to get all the victims that had passed in the Homeland War in this way to get a certain satisfaction. The law has to be clear, and the law is bound to say what price we pay for what happens.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86869	Damir Cain, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86870	No, we agree that it's one painful topic, one terrible truth to talk about, one of the most terrible things that's possibly happened or happening in every war. Mrs. Tyrelli mentions 1,500 people. I read some reports from some international conferences held in the Republic of Croatia, up to 2005, up to 3,000 victims of sexual violence. Mrs. Tyrelli speaks of 35 cases that came before our courts, 15 verdicts. I have one other data, but it's completely irrelevant now. The fact that the victims were from all sides of the ex-Yugoslavia area between 20,000 and 60,000 women and men were raped. And I'm sure without politics, that just wouldn't be possible. I recently watched on MAXTV in History a report on Germany after World War II and now it was mentioned that the Russians in their occupation zone raped about 2 million Germans. Normally, the Nazis committed incomparable crimes in Russia. But why do I mention it? Because in those 2 million Germans, 200 grand committed suicide. And in order not to accidentally be corrected by someone, I think that Nazism, fascism, is an absolute evil. What am I saying? This law is necessary to me, and it is necessary to give these victims the status of a civilian victim of war sexual violence. But I agree with Mrs Tyrelli, as she said, that this mathematics should be determined, i.e. a one-word compensation to determine that compensation that these victims should receive, and it would probably most likely be that it follows a system like the system for, say, paying back back their pensions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86871	We'll hear three more lines now. Dear colleague of Jadranka Kosor, please. Comrade Kosor, the replica, you signed up for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86872	Yes, it is. I thought Mrs. Tyrelli would answer. So, colleagues of Tyrelli, the most important issue, the biggest challenge for all of us in this law, will be and I agree with you on how to evaluate trauma, how to actually value the scariest of all the most terrible rape-related traumas. So it's one of the most angry and severe crimes. And we have to do everything we can to avoid any possible auctioning about it, any possible bidding about who understands who more and who understands the victims less. That is why my proposal will be for the minister to be that perhaps because the law is passed in the Croatian Parliament, he will hold a consultation with representatives of the club representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Vice President, I'm asking you to ensure the conditions that we who work here can really work.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86873	My colleagues and colleagues, I kindly ask you to stop murmuring so that we can hear a colleague who replicates both eventually and respond to the replica. Please kindly! Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86874	It's not just because of me, it's because of everyone else who's trying to work here, and when the voting time approaches, then some people come, and they don't even care what the subject is and what we're talking about and what the subject of the agenda is. And around the DORH, you mentioned the victim's testimony. It's a good coincidence that next week we're already discussing the DORH report for the past year and I think it'll be a real opportunity to ask the Attorney General here, to ask him all these questions, to decidate us with how many statements they have by name and last name, which is how many cases, and where certain procedures have stopped, completed and what their future is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86875	New replica, dear Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86876	And with your findings as well as with the demands and suggestions of the other colleagues who said the funds must be secured in the state budget. That's not what I'm talking about, but there's no means. Yes, there is. Here is one of the proposals, in Croatia it has been very loud for many so-called so-called years. NGOs doing everything to criminalise the Homeland War, show in the light of what it isn't, so DOCUMETA Center, so Peace Studies Centre, etc. I don't know if there are a lot of countries in the world that pay so generously from their budget those who do everything to base the states themselves well as do these associations. So here I will just remind you in 2013 DOCUMETA Center managed by Vesna Terselić, and we know what its attitudes are and what it does and how well it wants for the Croatian state, only its association received 372,000 and 450 kuna from the state budget. That's not all, they have other sources of income. So the Peace Studies Centre, 393 thousand and 250 kuna. When you add this up, here's 100,000 euros. A good start to secure funds in the state budget for the victims we want to help. So, yes, this needs to be regulated in the state budget, and it's not an accurate finding that we can't. We can cut somewhere, here I propose a regime for them, so let's give the victims of the sexual violence of great Serb aggression in the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86877	Thank you. And we'll hear another replica, dear Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86878	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Tirelli, you spoke of therefore material satisfaction, some satisfaction that would be, I am convinced that after that bitterness and those feelings there is no satisfaction to compensate for that misery of these abused women. But with what I've already said, the prosecution of the perpetrator, in any case, I agree with you that this material or financial or some kind of satisfaction is in some form, we can't do otherwise, it would still be something that the Croatian state should actually show good faith to do so. When you were talking about the number of people who were so raped in the Homeland War, let me put it in my colleague Buric's dictionary, and the figures they're talking about. So there are figures that represent our law school, then international conferences, then the National Archives of the Republic of Croatia. Believe me, if this legislative proposal were to be adopted in this form, a large number of proposals would come from the Veritas association, the Sava Strbec that would then be fabricated and now to say the other side a large number of cases. And already now you have inscriptions where Mr. Strbac, at a conference in London, spoke about it in July of this year and actually knowing about this legislative proposal slowly and preparing perhaps thousands of requests from Serbia, BiH, etc. So what do we do?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86879	Thank you. Now we're going to stop this debate a little bit so that we can discuss how we agreed to supplement the agenda and vote on the debated points.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86880	[[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 13,00 HOURS]] On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, Club Grubišić-Kain, colleague Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86881	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, it really wouldn't be fair to talk about this subject just in front of the cameras. Why? Because it must be one of the most painful stories of the Homeland War. And so let me first quote, on page 1, that during the Homeland War of this bill, the Republic of Croatia suffered a number of destructions, huge human casualties, but despite a time-out of over 20 years, one segment of the victims was not given enough attention, and it was about persons who suffered crimes of sexual abuse during the Homeland War among them in the largest number of women. Equally another sentence in this argument, that an analysis of the existing legal regulations in the Republic of Croatia leads to the conclusion that only individuals who have suffered some form of sexual abuse during the Homeland War can achieve the protection of their rights. I once again agree that one of the most monstrous crimes that has ever taken place was this very sexual violence. I would even say that it's much more than violence, it's a kind of humiliation, it's an unprecedented cruelty, it's what I'd say a perfidious policy, it's a different crime a couple of excellences that without politics could in no way have happened. I could understand that 10 or 20 cases happen, but when thousands and thousands of people experience humiliation in that way, then surely the background of the same is politics. I said a little while ago in a replica that I recently saw a show about Germany after II on this Max TV on History. The World War, and we all agree that these Nazi crimes in Russia, pardon the Soviet Union at the time, were terrible, terrible, that this Nazi regime was responsible for 55 million victims of '39. By '45, but I remembered on that show that when the Soviet troops came into that area of their responsibility, Berlin, East Germany, that they raped about 2 million Germans and that out of that number almost 2 hundreds, an apology of 200,000 committed suicide. If the area of their responsibility extends to 15 million people, women make up 50%, say 7.8 million, we can say that every 4th, 5th woman has been abused in this way. I said it doesn't reduce crimes... it's the consequence of the start of the war, but it can't be stopped either. And why am I bringing that up? So I mention because it really left a strong seal on me then, and that's why I'm absolutely, and mostly after that, reading the law and trying to find out a little bit what was going on at some international peace conferences that were held on the ground of the Republic of Croatia, so that's why I'm absolutely up for this bill of law. I agree, there are possibilities and the needs of some interventions. I also agree with all those who have said that one such bill is too late to come and I said exactly from this CD, which we are divided to learn that between 20,000 and 60,000 women were raped on the ground of ex Yugoslavia whether it was Croats, whether it was Bosniaks, whether it was Serbs or members of another minority. We in the Republic of Croatia have about 500 thousand war veterans. In one way or another, we can say this 500 thousand participates in the distribution of certain funds or certain rights, and these taxpayers' taxes stand at the annual level of cca 1.8% of GDP, 6.7 billion kuna, and I believe that these expenditures are absolutely justified. I tried to get some data on raped women first of all, but it wasn't just them that I told the Republic of Croatia before in the replica that I was drawing data from some international conferences that were held here, and now we have these different numbers from 1500 to 3000 raped women. In custody, there was a regular practice, there were cases that were equally painful that men were raped. I'm aware of the fact that it's extremely difficult to break a wall of silence, a man of such abuse I mean to him yet don't correct me, perhaps even harder to admit it, but if we have one law or better law than this proposal, maybe it'll simply "break" that wall of silence and create a group that would talk about it all in order to get to one more complete or more accurate truth. The UN commission will quote it led by a gentleman... says that in BiH but also in Croatia since '92. until '94 the practice of sexual violence carried out so systematically that it seems to be a product of politics. That's one definition I'd like to subscribe, I can understand the incidents, but if that were the case, it would be hundreds, not tens of thousands. I found that 18 cases arrived, shortly before Mrs. Tyrelli spoke of 35, she spoke of 15 accusing verdicts. I've seen four betrayed, but that absolutely doesn't reduce the tragedy in which thousands and thousands of people in the Republic of Croatia have happened. I read that the DORH also notes that the processing of such crimes is extremely difficult, sometimes impossible and simply there is no reason to doubt their qualifications. Police investigations are insufficient, the law so far has not been, I have to correct the injustice, we have to admit that sexual violence is not only an instrument of conflict or an instrument of war, but in that war it was committed with the aim of humiliating but also ethnic cleansing, an attempt to rule over one another. And if that's true, and I don't think I'm far from true, then it's a policy of evil, and it has to be regulated by law, and that crime should also somehow qualify as a war crime, although I am aware that international public law is probably much more precise than war crime and defined. The Croatian law that I keep repeating must give these victims the status of a civilian victim of war sexual violence. When we talk about this article 4 that Mr. Shakespeare warned about, I agree with him that this article is imprecise, that it should be distinguished that these are members of military, paramilitary, or regular forces as it stands, and it cannot in any way be defined in the same place and that it is well warned. Article 6 of the procedure for the exercise of the right under this law shall be implemented in accordance with the principle of gender equality and the principle of equality, regardless of the racial or ethnic origin of the party, I believe that here it is seen that the legislator's intensities do not want to hide anything, no sacrifice is reduced and I think that one such approach, regardless of what some predecessors are, Mr Boric etc. and the way in which they have come right, and that also makes this law not only acceptable but humane, and aims to correct the injustice against all those who have had something like it. Article 11 discusses a victim of sexual violence who can exercise the right to psychosocial assistance, legal aid, health care, medical rehabilitation, compulsory supplementary health insurance of accommodation in veterinary centres, financial compensation, other money rights, but should also be defined by an assessment of the means necessary for the implementation of the law precisely and unequivocally. And I think that principle of how those pension deficits were paid could be applied to these people. I'll say it one more time without any discrimination against anyone. The law should clearly be revived or revived, and it will certainly change. By the time we read the other reading, we're sure to get something to say the iron law, and we'll see how much it's going to be feasible, but I'm sure we have to have one of these laws. He comes late, but he's better on that folk than he's ever been. And therefore there is no dilemma at least with me that such a proposal with these particular redefinitions of Article 4. etc. Let us accept as clearly as possible and make it possible to live as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86882	Thank you. We have one replica of our colleague Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86883	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Caine, you've well noticed that this is not about cases or individual cases, that the actual rapes that occurred were systematically planned and part of the organised tactics of Serbian aggression and they knew that by raping women, they wanted to actually isolate the woman from society and after the war ended. The Serbian aggressor also knew that this crime against the woman, in fact, weakens and demoralises the entire family, making it easier to achieve a military goal, or victory. If that were the case with me, I would read only three sentences: "When I was only in Vukovar raping about 30 women, it was about 40, 45 and 50 years old, only one of them was 16 years old. In all these cases, rapes were involved by our group of about 9 to 10 men. In these cases, he'd be the last to rape Paia." I guess from this statement, Donald Vattice, "And after that, some women would have been killed by a gun and some wouldn't have killed.". That's in favor of what you said, I think it's good to say it here at the High House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86884	Thank you. My colleague Cain, the answer. ... Thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of SDSS Representative Milorad Pupovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86885	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. This is one of those bill proposals that carries with it a special degree of emotion and a particular sense of injury which, when it comes to victims, bears permanent characteristics and, when it comes to collectiveity, carries the individual charge within the community and within the collectives. And for this reason, we from the Club of Representatives of the Independent Democratic Serb Party pay special attention to this bill and to the proposer at the Ministry of Defence because we believe that this matter deserves a lot of respect. Another thing I would like to say is that the bill takes care to be comprehensive in approach and to cover all possible aspects of relations with victims of sexual violence at the time of the war involving humiliation, which includes a violation of integrity and which includes particular forms of violence or violence. Every act of this kind not only at the time of war is an act of particular brutality with the intention of humiliation and at the time of war I can imagine that it had multiple characteristics of brutality and multiple characteristics of violence that bear not only male female characteristics but also interethnic characteristics of violence and symbolic forms of humiliation and insult. For this reason, we from the Independent Democratic Party Club have reiterated once again a special sense of respect for victims and, of course, we support this comprehensiveity of the measures envisaged by law from material to social psycho-political and at the same time support the universal character of accession when they are based on the victims. In our public, it is rare to hear that there were victims of sexual violence during the war and on the side of the Serb minority population. Women who have been through this experience additional humiliation because they do not want to be admitted and do not want to see or mention it. I will not mention the people who have spoken to me at this age, nor will I mention cases where people have confessed, not to mention what they have done in public media. But our duty is to give these women adequate treatment according to this law, and also adequate treatment in public presentation of this kind of brutality and that kind of policy of humiliation and insult both individuals of such collectiveity that the perpetrators of this kind of disgusting crime most often knowly or unconsciously have in the back of their minds when they turn to that kind of unholy action. For this reason, he would plead to colleagues and colleagues, especially those who are victims of such brutal and detestable acts, not to forget that there are also persons who live without any recognition with the experience of these activities. I will not forget a woman like they certainly have here who has motivated both the minister and the public to move on this kind of legislative initiative, and not just a commitment stemming from UN documents and decisions from Geneva, but a decision of the highest degree of moralism that should motivate each of us when it comes to this type of crime, which is that it seems to the children, in front of the husband, that afterwards the wife is taken away and liquidated and that of the people who are still enjoying the benefits of participating in the war. I will not mention places or names because both places and names should be protected precisely because these crimes have a collective dimension, as they had in Bosnia, they had in Croatia. But we will do all we can to make sure that these women, under this law, have all the assumptions available for the exercise of the right to the extent that those rights guaranteed by law can in any way compensate for the suffering they have experienced, the humiliations they have experienced, and because of their female background and because of their belonging to one or another ethnic community. For this reason, the SDSS club will support this bill and do everything possible to ensure that it is implemented and applied to all those to whom it should apply, regardless of the ethnicity of the victims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86886	Thank you, too. On behalf of the club Jadranka Kosor and HGS Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86887	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister. Relatively short, here comes the time. There are few of us left, but I believe that all that we will say until the end of this debate remains the same for the future and for history, remains in the phonogram and remains in writing. I am still pleading that we are talking about this topic of cold head and hot heart, and if in some debate none of us in the sphere of politics should talk about it and should not politicise it, then that is exactly the subject. We must speak clearly, in line with above all the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, but also deprived of any kind of pathetic. This should be a smart debate because it is about the evil that victims who otherwise have difficulty speaking, so rape victims are in principle and generally the most women. Otherwise, in peacetime, it is extremely difficult to speak and extremely difficult to admit, and they are extremely difficult to report today because, despite the evils they have experienced, they have been further stegmatized in most cases. Often they are not accepted or very difficult to accept by their families, their environment, their working environment, and of course when all of this is put into the context of brutal war, brutal aggression. Personally, I think that this is one of the most serious crimes, one of the most serious crimes, and if we could think that we should think about the greatest possible impediment in Croatian legislation, the Criminal Law, for 40 years, especially for those who repeat such an disgusting act. In this debate, of course, it should also be said that the victims, we are now talking about rape victims during the Homeland War, so during the aggression, they were also victims of rape and men, perhaps not in the same proportion, especially those who have passed the trauma and horrors of concentration camps, so during the Homeland War in the 20th century, in the heart of Europe, or in the heart of the European Union. So I think it's worth saying that there are no first and second-row victims, as I've always said, no first- and second-row defenders, no first- and second-row defenders. They're all equally valuable, equally important, and they all need to be bowed down. Have we done this terrible sacrifice enough internationalization and I've talked about it many times, we haven't. So my opinion is that, for example, the victim of Vukovar and the victim of Ovchara, we have insufficiently internationalized and not enough of those arguments that speak of horror, we have brought the world to see it, to recognize it, and to admit it. Because when you think of Ovcara and all those who have been liquidated against all conventions and, contrary to all dares to say the principles of war in history. So there were brutally executed wounded, patients, the youngest victim was then 16 years old. There was also a bear found in that mass grave. Turns were found, rods were found. So the remains were found who clearly told the world that those who had to be absolutely protected under all conventions had been executed there. We haven't done enough and we missed one piece to internationalize that truth, but of course the truth about hell that all the prisoners of the camp went through here during the defense war. What we've been doing all these years, it's been a few times here apostrophe. Well, there's been a lot of work. I will just mention, therefore, that we have worked to regulate the entire area from making registers to of course rights for volunteers, disabled especially families of the dead, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders. If we were trying to fight this here for additional quotas for colleges, for children volunteers, disabled people, etc. The 20% disability status at the start was won by all campers, so those who passed the Serbian concentration camps. We've established a trust fund, a defense fund, a trust fund, a fund for funding, a scholarship to the children of the defense attorneys. The agreement with Bosnia and Herzegovina that we provided to the members of the Croatian Council of Defence protected rights and it was one of the most difficult jobs. So all these years have not been lost in vain since the end of the Homeland War. And now for the law. What's the problem with this law, and I've already mentioned it in the replica is the answer to the question, and I'm choosing words, but I can't find any better than it actually is, how to valorize that victim, how much that trauma is worth. It's Mr. Minister's hardest job at the end of this law. That's why I'm saying it again, 'cause nobody's heard it before when I said it in the replica. I suggest you indeed in the best of intentions because you answer to the Croatian Assembly, the Croatian Parliament has chosen you. Let's make extra efforts because this is only brought once. We'll only make this law once, then we'll do it eventually. But call, let's agree, let's make a consensus that representatives of all clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament added to the second reading contribute to finding this right formula that through the law, the compensation of the victim actually bows to the victims. I also agree that a special foundation should not be set up, but that efforts should be made to make it from the state budget. Here is a formula to secure some pensions or as it is already called for successful and respected athletes. It seems to me that some 14 million kunas are being separated for that. And here's the pension, which is what some of that money takes. The other day we read it in newspapers that I'm really deeply surprised they're taking, because they certainly live very solidly, and they don't need that support, I dare say that. But if we could and about it it seems to me that there was a consensus in the Croatian Parliament to find that formula for athletes, then we can certainly find a formula for rape victims. I agree with you, there's been a lot of debate over Article 4. I, too, absolutely agree with the example, or suggestion presented by fellow Shex, that this article might be the best thing to do. I'm still repeating that formulation of armed conflicts. Minister, remove that. This is absolutely contrary to what I have already said with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and with the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence and with the Declaration of the Homeland War. Because the Declaration of Homeland War years ago has been brought here, so it's time to get a little bit of a haircut and remember it. It says, for the sake of the dignity of the Homeland War, the Croatian judiciary is obliged to prosecute all possible cases of individual war crimes, serious violations of humanitarian law and all other crimes committed in aggression against the Republic of Croatia and in armed rebellion that during the Homeland War strictly applying the principles of individual responsibility and guilt. The Croatian Parliament then also called on all citizens, state and social institutions, trade unions, associations and media, and obliged all of us officials and all state bodies to protect the fundamental values and dignity of the Homeland War on those principles as a provision for our civilization's future. So if there was a failure here is clearly said in the declaration, then it wasn't just a policy failure, but also some other state institutions. As regards the initiation of the procedure, therefore very specifically still around Article 27 of the initiation of the procedure and in fact the proof. Therefore, the launch at the request of a party of representatives, etc. The application shall be accompanied by the evidence available to the applicant. I'm very afraid this provision will come true, what evidence, what evidence. Because we have to be sure that all those who wish to achieve some rights through this law, who have so far kept silent for various reasons, for fear, for discomfort, for horrors that have not been able to achieve how and what evidence they will give. So, I'm mentioning this because I want to do a second reading to really scratch out all those provisions of the law that will maximumly protect victims from additional victimization. Any memory of the evils that have passed wake up a terrible trauma. Therefore, we must pass such a law that will be more than sensitive. And finally, the Committee of Opinions, Article 31, that part of the law is called, so the Committee for the Making of Opinions on Revital Sexual Violence in the Homeland War. This experience is completely unnecessary. Because every sexual violence is resuscitated, so I suggest that it be removed as well. So, in conclusion, try to bring together all relevant political forces, first of all in the Croatian Parliament, in order to have a law that we will have until the second reading, and this is one of those laws that cannot go beyond the vote, this is one of those I would say, even few laws that must be adopted with 151 votes in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86888	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Branko Vuksic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86889	Dear colleagues, Kosor, you yourself said that it was hard to choose the words that you would describe some of these acts that were happening, so you said how valuable this trauma is. There's no money that can buy the peace of the people we're talking about today. We need to provide at least existential peace to the persons over whom the crime was committed. Soul peace can find those alone, if I can. No money, no amount of money can wash away the crime that was committed. You were talking about victims being reluctant to talk about these crimes, these terrible experiences, the pains they've been through. Especially women got caught up, part of women got the strength to talk about it. The men I've read haven't found yet, but there are victims, especially those who passed the camps and the only thing we heard when we talked to each other we heard confessions that are terrible and terrifying. I guess someone has already said, perhaps this law will be the one that will move people to speak more openly not of details, of course, but of horrors just for the sake of the truth. What has been done in Serbian camps as defenders, civilians who have been captured and the consequences they have today. And here I agree with you, there is a need to sensitize the world's public. We didn't do enough, and we didn't do all 20 years after the war because Vukovar would look different today if we did.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86890	Thank you. Answer, colleague Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86891	Yeah, uh... And you and me, as well as the mention of money in this context, are actually causing a terrible discomfort, and I don't think it's either the intensity or the pronoun, but it's not the intensity of all those victims who are seeking to pass the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The intensity is that their voice is heard. And what we can best do by passing such a law is the message that they are not erased, that they are not but for me, that they are not forgotten but that we respect, respect and worship their sacrifice. The money's definitely a side thing. But if we're going to help them spend the rest of their lives every victim's decent man, then we have to try to make sure that's true. But I'm sure no victim will actually ask and not ask to be a great amount, but to mention, to remain in writing. In the end, the law remains recorded for all time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86892	Thank you. The next replica of counterpart Dinko Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86893	Thank you. Mrs Kosor, I agree with you that the provisions of Articles 3 and 4 and this 31, but also to 33, because in all three articles, the word "experienced" should be considered and it may, at the very least, be replaced or removed as a word. And armed conflicts and Article 4. completely removed. On the matter of compensation, the irreplaceable prerequisite of any satisfaction for the victims of sexual violence is the prosecution and punishment of the perpetrator. There is no money that can replace the failure of this precondition. It's first and foremost. But when it comes to the right to compensation, we should probably take care of it, and I'm more inclined to think about a permanent fee than a one-time one. A one-time fee brings everyone who decides about it, especially the victims, to an unpleasant position. He says it cost so much and so much. We have an example of Chile that counterpart Grubisic has already said, perhaps we should consider and perhaps some other examples where there is a model of permanent compensation for such victims. I think that in that way, in a better way, we're going to protect the victims of sexual violence ourselves and possibly the discomfort over that, and that's how much you're doing now, so you don't have any rights anymore, permanently because the consequences are permanent, they're not one-time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86894	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Kosor, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86895	Well, of course, what the victim, but what we should all be looking for, is to expect is a criminal prosecution of the perpetrator, but not only persecution, but also convictions, convictions of the perpetrator. Of course, knowing that unfortunately, they will never be persecuted or punished and that many will slip under the radar, or under the judicial radar. However, for this we are not in charge of politics, but there are institutions of the Croatian state, and next week as I hear it comes here a report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office will be a great opportunity for each of us to ask about all the data that are related to the criminal prosecutions of the perpetrators and these crimes and to get accurate, clear, precise answers, specific and I think that we will then be able to complete this law by the second reading. So we must prepare well and look for decoded and precise answers. I'm sure we'll get them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86896	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of DC, New Wave and Independent Councilors, Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86897	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. So, I've already said this morning that our club will support this bill in the first reading. Absolutely this law should be passed, it's a category of people in our country who have no rights. So, we can talk here about criminal persecution, about the functioning of the rule of law that absolutely failed in this area, about what kind of sacrifice it is, because we're not talking about nationality here, we're talking about the victim here. However, I must say, no matter what and as many as you may fear monetary fees, I will point out that it is necessary. The damage to the crime committed must be valorized, it must happen because then why all this, why this law? So, Mr. Minister, find a way to indicate by the second reading the obligation of compensation to these women, to men, to these persons who have suffered a war crime. No bid required, no bidding required, but I think it should be laid down in the law, so that compensation for damages will be paid, and a special regulation, especially by some regulations, regulate what categories these are, which are heights. You've got all kinds of categories here. Women who have been forced to become pregnant, women who have given birth to children in the wake of rape, women who have lost their reproductive rights, women who have been raped multiple times. I can't do it at all, I don't even know what those are, and I don't dare think about what categories are possible here. Therefore, compensation for damages is an absolute condition without which this law does not make any sense at all. It is also necessary to provide and provide both health services and legal assistance and some guarantee of non-repeatment should be incorporated into the provisions of this law. The commission that will be working on interviews and conversations with women, with persons, so I'm not just saying, there are 10% of the men who have lived through these horrors. It really needs to be professional, it needs to be friendly, it needs to contain maybe a little more categories of experts than you have suggested them with this bill. So to include psychiatrists and psychologists and human rights experts and criminal law experts or perhaps some kind of war-action expert. So, it'll all be needed, you won't have medical records. Medical records are already who knows where, lost or witnesses died. So you're going to need to reconstruct the events. For this, you may need much more, wider categories of experts than the bill now provides. So, here's to the second reading, I don't think I'm going to say anything special anymore because a lot of things have already been said, I'd just be repeating myself. I think that until the second reading should be incorporated into the law indications of operational action and, of course, no less important, put in place mechanisms to monitor the implementation of the law itself. These are all newspapers, here it will take 23 years to push the mountains forward and when it comes to this law. You will see that this will have to, therefore, be incorporated into the provisions of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86898	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas. Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86899	Dear colleagues of the Scare Ozbolt, you have made one finding, in fact, a question or claim that some of your colleagues are terrified of damages. I didn't hear, I may have heard that someone was terrified of damages. We talked and more colleagues talked about that no amount of money could ease that pain and eliminate the traumas that survived the people over whom these crimes were committed. The other thing, we kind of said that today we have to pick words that bothers the word damage, I fear only those words of harm because it looks like things are or it's like a car accident, so it's been a shame. Let's choose those words when it's the last version of the law, the second reading. But I agree with counterpart Dinko Buric, who had said before, and we have already observed in the debates the injustice will not be corrected at all unless the criminals are punished. If those victims are going to get as much money as they get, and quite certainly that money isn't in the first place they're meeting on the street with criminals, and unfortunately that's happening. And we need first to question ourselves what kind of society we are that allows it to happen and what kind of society we are that allows for a part of the people of war to end maybe another 20 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86900	Thank you. The answer from my colleague, Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86901	Dear counterpart Vuksic, today we talked about the amount needed and what amount would be needed in the morning without knowing how to harm the state budget or in some way endanger the state budget. So here I stand firmly in the position that it is necessary to install cash compensation mechanisms. You don't like the word damage, I'm very sorry, but the damage and the damage is the same. So you're right to have material and immaterial damage, this is about immaterial damage, no matter how much that word bothers you, but it's in the law. And there is no other word than that that it may be known to a sufficient extent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86902	Thank you. Next replica, Nada Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86903	The esteemed colleagues of Scare Ozbolt I will only replicate in the sense that I am potentialing what you said is an extremely necessary monetary or rent or whatever we call it by this law because the determination of the status itself is afraid to be a dead letter on paper. In the very proposal for a law in Article 11, if I am not mistaken, we have numbered that there is a possibility of making cash compensations and others, but we have not determined that this will be determined by this very law. I know it's hard to say how much suffering someone's pain is worth, but we're not even here to judge it, but the victims still expect that as a real proof of an apology and recognition of social recognition of suffering by the state, they're still being monetaryally valorized. Maybe we should just say how much it's worth that some kid lost his father in the war, but we took over, and the state should've taken over well that we did and the funding, and those kids went to school and became people. We didn't ask what it was worth. Clearly, human life was invaluable. How much someone's legs, hands, someone's eyesight is worth, but we've decided that we're going to allow these people with disabilities that will allow them some quality of life. So with that approach, I think we can speak freely about these fees as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86904	Thank you. The answer from my colleague, Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86905	Well, I'd like to add one thing to my esteemed colleague. We do not talk here about categories of people who have everything in life and who live really for these Croatian opportunities. We are talking about categories that live extremely modestly, that live practically on the edges of society, that live with their severe traumas and memories, and they absolutely need help in a material sense. And that's why I'm undermining, I don't know which way, the material dimension is important, and it needs to be indicated, but seriously indicated in the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86906	Thank you. Next replica, Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86907	Dear colleagues of Ozbolt, I agree that there is no need to avoid the term of damage not only because it is written in our legal regulations that regulate legal terminology but also about health damage. So the rape act itself has caused and this permanent damage to the health of persons who are victims of rape. If we know what health is by definition, then as a state of not only physical and mental but also social well-being, then there's been damage. And I fully agree with you, it should be for a second reading and it should be determined but it is a good suggestion to also consider categorizing with regard to the consequences, c Therefore, it does not take a year to make some financial structure for compensation, i.e. insurance damages.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86908	Thank you. And the last replica, Zeljko Sabo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86909	Thank you. All in principle comes down to some extent through this bill at some amount, whether it's compensation, how, but what matters is how to satisfy justice. We can't regulate it through this law, but we had other defense laws. And you mentioned campers here. All of us in the camp were sexually abused men, the impact target in the camps was our genitals. We were unconscious. When we came back from the camp and we talked about it in front of some medical committee and we talked about our experiences, what we experienced, our suffering, our disability was evaluated if we were in the camp 20% through the law, and if we had something else we were all PTSD and if someone was without a hand, leg, it had some bigger percentages. And this topic we talked about and talked about, the commission absolutely didn't evaluate. Tomorrow we will come through the law, all of us who were in the camp will have one additional law to appear as persons who were sexually abused in the war. 50% disability, a disabled Homeland War, seems 400 kuna a month. You're talking about some cash fees. Is this going to be cash when we're talking here and I'm asking the ministers that we all know, this isn't money amounts because someone's going to get hurt because they're wrong, they're wrong, they're going to be wrong, they're going to be wrong, they're going to be wrong, they're going to be wrong, they're going to be wrong, they're going to be wrong, they're going to be wrong, they're going to be okay. So this fee is basically simple because of their reduced ability or incompetence, and we come back in principle that if these people don't need a pension, that's kind of how it is. Therefore, the long journey and ministers is a difficult task ahead of you, and certainly a commendable law which is late is unfortunately here and how long has it taken to pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86910	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, Franco Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86911	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Minister. So here's what my colleague Sabo said, before us is the Law on the Rights of Victims of Sexual Violence in the Homeland War 20 years too late, unfortunately. It is only the passing of such a law that is the recognition of the suffering and the existence of the victims. The victims are confirmed that society has recognized them, understood their suffering, and are willing to provide every form of assistance requested. So it doesn't seem like anyone's terrified of any cash compensation. For more than 20 years, it took official Croatian politics to recognise that persons were exposed to sexual violence during the Homeland War of Victims, that this should be legally recognised, and that is what the government and current defence minister are doing now. My colleagues and colleagues, I appeal to you all for empathy to victims who in many cases were not only women but also men, most of whom are afraid to speak publicly, afraid to think about it. It lies buried somewhere deep inside them. In addition to the act of rape there are other forms of sexual violence, here is one mentioned by fellow Sabo, mass hitting on genitals, castration, semi-pastration. In a psychological sense, this means that the victims were exposed to the most traumatic experience that in a psychological sense destroys the foundations of the victim’s personality. That explains the need not to talk about their experiences. In this way, psychological solidarity was created between the victims that they would not talk about anything, or a vow of silence was made. You are the ones who represent this people, and I'm sure you can understand all the pain and silence of those who have been exposed to sexual violence, whatever sex they are. I hope you'll certainly show empathy to these victims, and that's what you've shown in the debates so far. Dear colleagues and colleagues, regardless of our mutual recommendations, regardless of party membership, support this law because it allows us to show respect for these victims. Under peaceful conditions, all victims of sexual violence do not report a crime. Research has been done saying that only a hundred victims testify to their war experience, and that is an explanation why institutions have no data, at least not accurate data on the number of raped women and men. This is also due to the fact that under wartime conditions, the minimum chance of finding the perpetrator is also a punishment, while at the same time testifying to the victims is putting themselves at risk of the stigma of the environment in which he lives. In particular, it is expressed in men who have survived sexual violence, primarily for reasons why nothing or unfortunately rape has been said about it except women as victims. Men as victims are ashamed, and at the same time they feel that they are both sexual orientations, or that they will be further stegmatized in society. This law represents a step forward and there I disagree with some of the thesis here previously stated. It certainly represents a step forward, and when it comes to valorising the Homeland War, which unquestionably was a fair and liberating war, a war that freed our country, which allowed us to freely decide the fate of our country. The Homeland War was imposed on Croatia and was imposed by the then Serbian leadership supported by JNA and part of the Serbian national minority in Croatia. That should always be made clear. And I don't see who else in these areas anymore, and in this country, it's not clear. I'm saying there's no equality between the victim and the criminal. Croatia was exposed to the most primitive form of propaganda and violence, and then war. And the Croatian people were forced to fight for their survival. But almost 20 years after the war, I think we all need to look ourselves in the eye together and admit that unfortunately, individuals belonging to Croatian troops may have committed sexual violence, or crimes of sexual violence. There are equalizations of victims of such terrible crimes, yes. There are equating these victims to the right to respect and that's how it should be and that's civilization's reach. After all, I am now speaking as a former member of the National Guard and the Croatian Army. I don't want my participation in a war to equalize with a human scum who resorted to these kinds of violence. I want these people prosecuted, to answer for what they did, because they didn't do it in the interest of my country. Those who use it no matter what side they come from are nothing but human scum and scum of the worst kind. Some respect in war exists for the enemy, not in that romantic sense, but in that human. According to these beasts that resorted to such forms of violence I have absolutely no respect for were those individuals dressed in a uniform of an army which I belonged to and to whom I am extremely proud or uniform of the enemy army. That's the kind of thing I think of worse. If they were in the uniform of the Croatian Army team up for them, then I condemn them more for such proceedings. By such actions they cast a stain upon all those who fought with honor. A team is up for them because the Croatian Army has fought honorably and respected all international legal, war norms however you wish. After all, it's a winning army. This law is certainly a step forward, for those who spent nights in the silence of the room in a cramp and pay, those who do not want to remember what happened to them. Those who may even in their suffering feel that they are themselves to blame for them now have the opportunity to show them the respect of the Croatian society and to confess their sacrifice, the sacrifice that is the very victim. I'm the victim's status and the name that someone victim is causing victims to feel humiliated and feel that she's recognized by trauma and an act of abuse. Taking... It turns its traumatic experience into a testimony and ceases to be an object already becoming an entity in the process of proving crime. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At that moment, she became a person who survived the crime of sexual violence, and this is the process that the UN recognized and recommended that people who survived sexual violence should not use the term of the victims but survive. I can't rank the type of victim, I don't even have enough knowledge for that. But I think that when a person is exposed to sexual violence, it's the most cruel form of humiliation. It's a waste of dignity. It's an attack on the most intimate part of a person and I honestly don't know how those people who have been exposed to it are dealing with it. Those persons who were exposed to such tortures had no right so far, could not even exercise that elemental right, the right to treat with respect and the right to acknowledge suffering. For the first time, we have the opportunity to admit to these persons that they were killed in a war that led to Croatia's independence, that they suffered terribly, and that they were either a civilian or a military victim of war. And this law is exactly what his name says about victims not the perpetrators, because they are dealt with and should deal with other laws, first of all the Penal Code and do not need victims and perpetrators to be in the same law. This law should not even count the camps as some have suggested, because the names of these camps are the infamous truth about them and what was happening in them is a familiar thing. This law should only be acknowledged that the state of Croatia at that time of war was unable to protect its citizens from violence, and this subject of this law would be called by violence of the worst kind, violence that slowly kills its victim, kills her psychologically, kills her with terrible memories and traumas that remain behind such violence. And that is why Croatia is obliged to these people as well as to all the victims of the Homeland War to treat them with respect and to acknowledge their sacrifice. That's what this law is all about. It is estimated that at the time of the Homeland War between 1400, 1500 and 2 1/2 thousand people became victims of rape or sexual violence. Even 40% of that number of tragedies survived in Eastern Slavonia. Most of these acts occurred during the first two years of the war in '91. and '92. A year. Research by the Department of Sociology of the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb for the purposes of the UN programme and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia included 147 victims of sexual violence of which 126 women and 16 men until 5 persons were cited. According to the available data, most of the men who are known to have suffered sexual violence have experienced it in camps. A large part of sexual violence and rape occurred in the area between Knin, Zadar and Sibenik. The survey also showed that such abuses were concentrated on the first war period in '91, '92. the year when as many as 2/3 of the known cases of sexual violence so far occurred. These atrocities, you'll forgive my colleagues and colleagues but I can't call them anything else they've been through three scenarios. The first form includes repeated abuse of prisoners of both sexes in camps. In these cases, rapes were partly public in separate rooms with the presence of other victims or completely public in front of other prisoners. The second form includes sexual violence that occurred in the entry of enemy military forces into settlements where a large number of people were found. Cases from this pattern were most often taken place in private houses and facilities, mostly in the home of a witnessless victim or the worst in the presence of family members. The third form of violence took place in occupied areas at the time of occupation. Victims whose experiences have been observed in the research that I have mentioned are expected by three types of damages, material compensation restitution, rehabilitation programs, and ultimately satisfactory which, in a narrow sense, represents the criminal prosecution of the perpetrator, and in a broader sense, recognition of the status of the victim. This law provides a definition of what is considered sexual violence in the Homeland War, who is the victim of sexual violence, and who could commit such an act. In Article 4, we believe that it is necessary to add more than anything listed and as possible perpetrators of persons who have used their political influence to encourage the execution of such acts. The rights of victims of sexual violence are further defined, and this right to psychosocial assistance, legal aid, health care, medical rehabilitation, compulsory and supplementary health insurance, medical and systematic review, accommodation in veterinary centres, cash compensation and other monetary rights. Institutions and institutions responsible for the exercise of those rights shall be defined. The right to cash compensation as well as other cash rights is defined, and the funds for the achievement of other monetary rights will be provided through a foundation for victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War to be established by a special law. About that, we've heard today in the debates, there's a certain dispute, but we at the SDP club think this is a good solution so far and we support it. It was also established by the bill of law to obtain status and exercise the rights of the victim of sexual violence in the Homeland War, as well as a high degree of protection of the victim. The composition of the commission, which gives an opinion on the fact that a person has suffered sexual violence, is that it is a survivor. And finally, I have to quote Mrs. Maria Sliskovic, president of the Women in the Homeland War Association, and women have been dealing with injustice for more than 20 years. Their thoughts are aimed at establishing justice and ending this war trauma where they know well who the victim is and who the criminal is. It's never too late to protect the interests of individuals, people, states. The nation of Israel is still persecuting criminals even though decades have passed. Learn from others, believe in yourself, and never be discouraged in protecting the truth about your people and your country. It's not nationalism, it's duty. The SDP club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86912	Thank you. In front of the HSU club Maria Ilic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86913	Dear Vice-President, Your Honor, I must firstly express my satisfaction and commend on behalf of the HSU Club the initiators of this proposal for the Law on the Rights of Victims of Sexual Violence in the Homeland War and also express my regret that it had to go 20 and more years, 23, in order to find such a bill on our assembly benches. How this bill aims to provide victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War with all rights that would show the care of the authorities for victims who have suffered terrible abuse and have suffered a great deal of suffering and suffering should be further regulated by individual proposed solutions. In this regard, Article 2 of the Law provides that sexual violence is defined by the list of illegal actions. The definition is too narrow, we believe, because the appearances of harsh sexual violence can be different. In favour of the victims, we believe that it is necessary to expand the definition by means of fornication that represents a harsh incursion in sex. Likewise, sexual harassment is an unwanted behavior of sexual nature that can certainly be caused by fear and trauma in circumstances in which the victim is found. It is obvious that fornication and sexual harassment do not have the same weight as the preceding number of violence in that article, but it should certainly be included in the law to ensure the right for those persons who, on these grounds, could receive permanent trauma in view of the war conditions of the act or of the misdemeanour. This is why we propose to amend Article 2 and the HSU Club will, of course, work and come out with the amendment. Article 20 provides for the right of users to accommodation in veterinary centres, which is in principle a good provision but the law should lay down a period within which such centres will be established. Because if there is no deadline, the provision will most likely remain completely inconclusive, and then the question arises why are we putting it into this law? Article 21 provides for the right of users to cash and increased cash compensation under conditions other than these prescribed and special law. The reasoning states that the current state budget situation is because the current funds for the implementation of this law are not envisaged but the situation with the budget has nothing to do with the manner and conditions discussed in this article but may have to do with the amount of compensation, we propose that word and special law be deleted, when it comes to the manner and conditions of the compensation. We therefore propose the determination of the amount of the financial compensation from the state budget as well as the time limit for prescribing the amount. Article 28 of the proposal provides for a deadline for the application, we believe that the regulation does not follow the meaning of the law itself and that it should be deleted. It is explained that the deadline has been introduced in order to avoid undue delay in proceedings but given the fact that the procedure is initiated from the moment of application, the time limit for its submission does not have any causal link to the delay in the proceedings. In view of the fact that during the last long period of the victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War they were left to themselves, it is not justified to set a deadline for them at the time when the law giving them certain rights is finally passed. The law is passed because of them, so all provisions should be in favor of the victims. At the same time, the psychological status of the victims may be poor at the time of the adoption of this law because it is the people who, with their suffering and trauma, have worn themselves, who are not ready to be legally active immediately because they touch the old wounds, then rocking makes no sense because it makes it impossible for the victim to seek help and rights when it is ready for them. Also for reasons that war crimes do not go out of date, it should not limit the deadline for applying for status and the exercise of the rights of victims of sexual violence. We therefore propose that Article 28 be completely deleted. Article 33 provides for the commission to give an opinion on surviving sexual violence, acting on the basis of medical and other documentation until a testimony is provided as evidence. Given the wartime circumstances in which the violence occurred, it is difficult to provide documentation on the same, and therefore, as evidence, it should also be predicted that in some cases only witnesses to violence exist. Article 34 states that the costs of the party's proceedings in case the same party is given a favourable end, will fall on the burden of the state budget, which means that the party that failed in the procedure, and the actual victim of violence, will have to bear the costs on its own. Such a legal solution is not fair in relation to the victims, so we suggest that the costs of the procedure fall on the burden of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia and that administrative fees are not paid in the process of exercising the right under this law. Furthermore, we propose a clearer further explanation of the provision of Article 36, according to which solutions establishing the status and rights of this law do not assume the criminal liability of the perpetrator and do not affect the decisions of the competent authorities on the fact that the act of sexual violence is committed. Article 39 provides for the establishment of a foundation or how a foundation is written for victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War. We suggest that the entire chapter 5 be deleted on the establishment of that trust. We consider it a positive obligation for the state to provide funds for payment of cash fees and other cash rights while, in the proposed way, the state pays out by the basis of this law makes it entirely uncertain and dependent on payments in a trust from natural and legal persons. The State should provide for this necessary funding from the state budget because unless the funds for the implementation of the prescribed monetary rights in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia are provided, this law will be.... But why not the possibility of establishing a foundation? She certainly wouldn't be on the loose, and I'm sure she'll be accepted in public, but if we had to secure that institute through the state budget, it can't be sure to be questioned. And finally to say that this is one of the laws that I wouldn't mind if he had gone through an emergency procedure because I believe there's no one in the assembly that wouldn't be finished, I'd say, aclamately support such an important thing, to call it human law in the Parliament. Of course, with respect to the proposal to amend certain articles that contribute not only to the victims but to all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86914	On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, colleague Sonja König.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86915	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of our Parliament, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. According to international law, according to this proposal of the Law on the Rights of Victims of Sexual Violence in the Homeland War, which we are today discussing, according to humanity, according to common sense, victims have the right to social recognition of suffering, assistance and compensation. Is she just? Probably not. Is she adequate? Certainly not. But on the question is this decision today ahead of us and is it the desire for sexual violence in the Homeland War to be defined and the status of the victims finally recognised? The answer is yes. This is important for both the victims and our entire society because, apart from the terrible crimes and the sufferings that victims of sexual violence have experienced in the Homeland War, injustices have also been experienced by their own countries through their unresponsiveness, injustices have also been experienced by their own state by their own institutions by their failure to react. That's what this law changes. This law will contribute to the social rehabilitation and integration of this previously neglected group of war victims and victims because the crime of rape is equally terrible if not more terrible than other crimes should not go undetected and without conviction, and unfortunately this has happened in almost all war conflicts. And although rape in many military regulations throughout the centuries was mostly banned, it was considered a normal and inevitable consequence of war, it was considered and is still considered an important war tactics. Raping in war as well as any other is not a matter of chance, it is a matter of power and control, and each is a common suffering and degradation of the victim, and often their social isolation. And that's what's incredibly completely depraved but profoundly distorted understanding that this crime is in some way embarrassing to the victim and the Stigma for the victim himself. That's why sexual violence in war is such an effective instrument. As a means of war and ethnic cleansing, sexual violence not only destroys the victim and her family but also the whole community, and society is often silent in war and peace. And that is why this issue should not only be approached in the context of war and conflict, but primarily through the impact on social awareness of unacceptableness and intolerance towards sexual violence in any form. Therefore, as a society, we need to develop much faster awareness that sexual violence is in war, that sexual violence is unacceptable, inhumane, and acts of these perpetrators are embarrassingly inconceivable. That's what needs to be discussed, discussed and passed laws. This bill that we are discussing today provides for certain rights and recognition of the status of the victim. The aim of the law is to define sexual violence in the Homeland War and to recognise the status of those who survived this violence, to provide different forms of assistance and to create the basis for certain monetary rights. Will this law restore health to the victims? Probably not. Will this law significantly reduce the suffering of the victims? Probably not. But will the adoption of this law encourage the victim to talk about crime and promote the truth, enable them to increase health care standards and create the basis for certain monetary rights? The answer is yes. And that's why the HNS club will support the proposed Law on the Rights of Victims of Sexual Violence in the Homeland War. And finally, respected ministers, we have one proposal of a more technical nature, a more technical nature, but whose acceptance can affect the speed of procedures for gaining status and the exercise of the rights of victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War. The deadline for the application is five years from the adoption of this law, and the commission which gives an opinion on this status is appointed at a time of four years. The assumption is that, at the end of the term of office, members of the commission will be announced or reiterated by a public call, but as we know, it requires a certain time and respect for the deadlines of competition and appeal, so it would not be wrong for the respected ministers to be appointed to the commission for five years. We do not risk a delay in the work of the commission, and we do not waste time on the procedures related to the selection of members and members of the commission who, even after such an election, would actually work less than a year. Please consider this proposal until the second reading of the law, and the HNS club as I announced this proposal in the first reading accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86916	Thank you. And we're moving on to an individual debate. A colleague of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86917	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister. No matter how few we are, I simply did not want to give up my debate, and perhaps I will do some of the things that were said during today’s debate. But I'm sorry that it's in that morning part, and that's good every time the cameras are on, in one part there's been an over-stricken debate, maybe some of the issues that should be in the other plan when this bill is here. Many have called for, among other things, the Declaration in the Homeland War and I think it is important to say here and remind that the Declaration of the Homeland War brought the coalition government headed by the SDP in 2000, so I don't know if it's a coincidence or coincidence that today the coalition government heads again with the SDP is passing a law such as the Law on the Rights of Victims of Sexual Violence of the Homeland War. In Croatia, according to the current Penal Code and as before, which preceded the Basic Criminal Code, the crime of war crimes is done by anyone who violates the rules of international law during the war, armed conflict or occupation orders that the civilian population be killed, tortured or treated inhumanely, forced to prostitution or rape or who commits any of those acts. Rape as a way of committing a war crime is also regulated before the said legal regulations. In an explanation, the opening argument immediately at the beginning of the bill stands during the Homeland War, the Republic of Croatia suffered numerous destructions and huge human casualties but despite the time-out of over 20 years, one segment of the victims was not given enough attention and it was about persons who suffered crimes of sexual abuse during the Homeland War, among whom women are in the highest number of years. So when it comes to the problems and treatment of the victims of war sexual violence committed during and immediately after the war conflicts and which in the recent past raged in our country, we all agree that the existing legal and institutional frameworks are not sufficient, inadequate, in one part and nonexistent. And to say this, the greatest number of acts of war rape and other types of sexual abuse has not been processed. The perpetrators are either unknown or unknown under quotes or inaccessible or abolized or live today as ordinary citizens rarely near their victims. Of course, it's quite additionally traumatizing the victims. There's also a fact that we can't run away from, but there's still gonna be opportunities to talk about it, that in investigations and possible sanctions, it hasn't gotten far, that the statements of the victims that were once and gave haven't been processed for years, that many who decide to go through torture again through memories of everything they've been through. And I've already said most of the victims of these crimes are women. And I personally believe that these very crimes were being ignored, and they were being crossed because, as they are still today, they unfortunately considered themselves to be a common part of the war. And that silence, I'd say, hurts the most. The statements women used to give are in someone's drawers, and that's what needs to be said. And of course, the longer time goes, the harder it gets, the harder it gets, the harder it gets to open it, lead it, start running it, and finish it. And I'll repeat, many have said that today, and for too many years there has been no strength, but neither will I face this problem, and we may have allowed the greatest number of victims of war rapes to ever experience their satisfaction. It has been said here many times today that we do not have the exact data of how many victims of these crimes are. We'll probably never actually have it until the end because part of the victims died, part of it doesn't want to repeat the testimony, part of it says they weren't actually raped, they might pull back what they once said somewhere. However, whether it was one, ten, hundreds, or thousands of states are obliged to provide adequate assistance, protection, certain financial compensation, and satisfaction in court. And the attainment of justice as long as possible after the time has passed. I will do it again, I said it today in one replica that I am extremely proud that we finally came to the proposal of a law like this in Croatia. I personally consider it not only important to the Republic of Croatia, that it is not only relevant to the victims who are present here, who are, I do not know whether women are still up there, so not only for them but also beyond. And in the countries of our region where we belong, but also wider in the international sense, because I will repeat what I said again in one replica, we have received recognition from the highest levels of experts, institutions that are particularly concerned with the issues of sexual abuse and various types of sexual violence in armed conflicts. And in that sense, I believe that as a state proposal for this law that I agree with, there is room to sit down, to talk, to see how and how we can fix it until the second reading, so a law that I am convinced is going to serve some other countries tomorrow as an example of how and how much we can damage the victims of sexual violence in armed conflicts. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86918	Thank you. Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86919	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Sobol, I agree with you in part of your debate when you say it's really good, and we have spoken in our replicas and discussions that we will support this law if there is any change, and we are really glad that this has happened. But I think it's a good thing that you said that all of us through all these years, all governments didn't have the strength to actually pass one such law and you said it well, in the plural. But what I've been waiting for all day, some of the individuals and you mentioned worse women sitting there, I would also mention that in reality this whole initiative came from women and here from one woman, Mrs Maria Sliskovic, who, at the time of the start of the Homeland War, you know the same thing very well, through the bed of love, warned of aggression on Croatia and through this book of the Sun. It took a lot of time to really get this problem open and it's never too late for the law to pass or maybe it's too late for some people who aren't alive, you said. But we don't need to take credit for it, but we don't need to give credit to one side at this hour to some government, but you've said well that it's all our fault this year that it didn't happen to that law. It was also SDP for 7 years in power and HDZ and everything else, but I think this gas to the board it gave, forgive me for saying so, Mrs. Sliskovic, who has visited everywhere, probably the minister knows it best now, and the women who have stood by it are responsible for us today to really talk about this law that we need.... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86920	Thank you very much. Replication response, Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86921	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Sumrak, I am very pleased that Mrs. Marija Sliskovic and the women she is running in some way, she presents, their spokeswoman in some way, are to say the most open door she found in the Ministry of Defence, led by Minister Matic. And the story started to spin, the story started to spin. An extremely large credit, yes, it is true, this problem, solving the issue, the apparitions have civil society. I will say this immodestly, I may well know it because I am personally involved not only in this process that ran here in Croatia in the preparation of this law, but also in the wider regional region, I am a member of the Regional Women's Lobby and my dear colleague, I will remind you that in the 10th month of 2012 here in Zagreb we have just organised as members of the Regional Women's Lobby International Conference which for the first time opened the questions of achieving justice and joining the judiciary for women from the region, of course it means Croatia, especially with a focus on the problem of sexual violence and abuse during the war conflicts. Especially in Croatia during the Homeland War and great Serb aggression on our country. At that meeting, Minister Matic had his first presentation, and then he announced a bill that would recognise the victims of all those who went through sexual violence in the Homeland War, so this synergy must actually begin to take place somewhere. And once again, I am pleased that it is precisely during the term of office of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86922	Thank you. Hope Murganic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86923	Dear fellow Sobol, no one is contesting, we are witnesses, we all have healthy eyes and eyes and we know that right from this ministry and at this moment, this bill of law has come out. No one here in most of the world has ever argued that he should have. The only objection was whether you need immediate compensation, compensation,...or what we're going to call them, stand in this law or be regulated by some special law. We will be proud of this law if together, but together as my colleague Ilic said we bring it unanimously or already some other colleague or colleague, so as not to feel them that I have neglected and we will be really proud if when we vote this law up from the gallery we hear the satisfaction and applause of these women. Because it doesn't matter which government, it doesn't matter which ministry, it doesn't matter which international organizations we've received recognition from either, maybe if we really did here at the end of today we'll push the ego a little bit, and that here are the ministers when you reunite your task force, we'll listen to what proposals these women make, and with what damages, fees, or anything we'll be satisfied with, or what we'll continue to call them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86924	Gordana Sobol, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86925	My colleague Murganic, so I don't know what you just said to me in your replica, I don't think I'm even saying it that way. Of course, it will be ours ultimately in common, and I hope the consensus politically in this House, but you cannot take away me from saying what I think and to show my satisfaction finally with what I believe you are involved in some sort of process or in some working groups, advisory bodies, etc., so that when the final act comes, you will show your satisfaction. I don't need it after so many years because I'm like a politician's wife and in this problem recognized and much wider than our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86926	Comrade Boris Blazekovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86927	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister. There are few of us in the Parliament, but here we are, and we are talking about this topic because we care, we think that this topic is important, that this topic should be heard by citizens, we need to hear a wider community. The proposal of this law is a very specific law which, regardless of all the horrors that are read from it, reads the classification of a more civilized country in the world. They don't have all the countries that have been through similar problems and are going through similar problems don't have this kind of law. War is the greatest evil that can happen to any individual, community and society. War is an aggressive and destructive political tool that always destroys, hurts and kills. The consequences of every war are always destroyed objects, dead, wounded people, refugees, broken economic operators, and the entire branch of economies, as well as usually broken institutions of the state. War when it stopped and then there were often decades to regain trust among the warring parties themselves. After wars, new countries often develop, or some territories of some countries are torn apart. And in these cases, new or re-establishment of the state institutions is being re-enacted again, trying to establish conditions, trying to establish a new life. It is particularly sensitive and difficult to restore the normal lives of individuals, families, and social communities affected by war. Unfortunately, some individuals never recover from the unfortunate consequences of war for the rest of their lives. The war also leaves many people with disabilities with its destruction. He's always been one of the crimes in all wars, unfortunately, and sexual violence. The use of sexual violence as a weapon of war is the worst form of violation of all international conventions and is also the most humiliating form of war crime against a person. Unfortunately, a number of sexual violences have been committed in various forms during the Homeland War. But thank God Croatia is one of the countries facing this nastadan anomaly and I can say in person to the final one. I have a lot of resolutions here that I could quote, but let me just read out of reason some things that I think are important. We've heard it here, and it's important to the public, so maybe someone can hear it. I think it's important to say these things. The protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms means the commitment of the state to prevent their violation. People who have suffered violence have the right to justice, to support and respect society, to just adequate compensation for the suffering of horrors, psychological, medical and legal aid, and most of all the right to social recognition, the suffering of crime. To date, there is no accurate record of those who have experienced this violence, so there is no concrete knowledge of the number of damaged persons. But the need to settle this issue arises because of a large number of people mainly taken to enemy prisons and camps believed to have survived some form of sexual violence during war destruction. And now let me read this, because I also think it's important, and that's the basic issues that need to be settled by this law. Sexual violence in the Homeland War should be defined, and it should be established, to recognise the status of those who have experienced this violence. Provide different forms of assistance through the national psychosocial and medical assistance program to participants and victims of the Homeland War. Mark the existing Institute of Psychological and Health Assistance, which is being implemented today through the Center for Psychosocial Assistance, Regional Centres for Psychotraum, Civil Associations and the like, ensure the right to compulsory supplementary health insurance to victims who do not have the right to do so, provide them with regular, annual, medical systems, provide them with accommodation in veterinary centres, provide them with legal assistance in the pursuit of legal protection, create the basis for the achievement of monetary rights as a form of reparation. To ensure the costs of transport incurred in the exercise of repatriative rights, to regulate the manner and conditions of recognition of the status of the victim and of its rights and to determine their duration or conditions of termination of the same and to announce the establishment of a foundation for payment of money rights. In the aftermath of the law, one sentence ends up being written. It says approaching European, or global standards the mechanism of regulating and protecting fundamental human rights and freedoms, which is true. It should be, but I think this is more important than that, this is more important for us regardless of the standards of the world and European community. And I would just like to add that, among other things, the Committee on War Veterans suspects that the law will bring justice and justice to victims after so long, and a period of 5 years from the entry into force of the law allowing the application to be made. I believe that the exact opposite of this suspicion is due to the sensitivity and discomfort that the victim of sexual violence obviously carries within him, that it takes a few years, and even a few decades to make the victim fully aware of the need for satisfaction, and to decide to disclose and seek compensation for suffering pain and frequent wounding and various forms of disability. One of the most famous examples of this claim is the testimony of victims of sexual violence against minors by the priest of the Catholic Church. In particular, it was that striking example from the United States where these people, only at a high age, decided to come out with the truth. But otherwise, it's never too late to satisfy justice. Justice and justice in such cases is and must always be in order to protect the victim, but the execution of justice and justice, and condemnation and judgment against the perpetrators is an important message for the whole society. That is why whenever justice arrives, there is a message, a warning, and often a social catharsis. This is for Croatia and Croatian society, this is an important law for Croatia and Croatian society, and I give it full personal support like almost everyone, i.e. all colleagues and colleagues, and I also believe that all possible doubts and technical and nomotechnical details will be successfully corrected until the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86928	And the closing word of the defence minister, Mr. Predrag Matic. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86929	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. Here's to the end of the day we've had a debate, I believe, and I'm sure of a fruitful debate. I would take the opportunity to thank you, all of you who are today, to thank you on behalf of all the victims of sexual abuse and violence that are present here today, and I want to thank you all who have stayed until the end and also try to justify others. It's Friday afternoon, but when we talk about importance, and everyone you spoke about today, you talked about the importance of this topic, and then really a special thank you to you who stayed until the end. Thank you to Mr. Shucker, who at first told us to avoid a political story about this law because there is really no room for politics. I'm sure for another reading we'll find even better solutions and see that you've been very constructive, most of you, except for some who have let me say a little missed topic. So, at first I said that this is the law, we couldn't call it anything but the law of the heart, the law of respect and recognition of the victim. In this law, at no time are we talking about the status of the perpetrator and how we will deal with it. Here she is present and participated in the debate of the former justice minister and as an expert can confirm that this law is not even common because some of the things he says do not hold that legal and legal basis, but Croatia wants and shows its understanding of the victims of sexual abuse and we will pass this law. By the second reading I ask you all to bring, send your remarks that we will certainly all that are acceptable we will certainly accept them and I am sure that this law will be passed in this House unanimously because that is exactly what this subject and people are worth, the people we are talking about in this law. Just before that second reading, I would like to explain some things that occurred during the day. So when it comes to the Homeland War he is listed both in the Constitution and in the declaration and in a bunch of laws that were passed in this House and just when we say Homeland War then we define with him both time and space and participants because, of course, as Mr. Shucker said, one army was involved, it was ours, but they had to participate in both the others and all those others we fought against, or who fought against us. It's hard to say, and I'm leaving it open, and we're going to try to define this article 4th, but believe me, this is where I recorded Mr. Shakespeare's thesis that the Allies did after World War II. But that was 70 years ago, I think our society has progressed civilizationally and in every other way, that we simply have to accept the thesis. I'm in my place, here's almost three years old that I'm a minister, holding on to the fact that the victim is a victim. And I want to thank you for this very thesis that we have achieved in such a short sentence and in solving the problem of World War II and porn, when we got to the table of one, the other and the third that I don't now speak red, black and what color there are. They also showed results in search of missing persons right at the moment when we started carrying out the stands on which both sides participated, because we want to show that the victim is the victim and that every mother is crying equally. So this definition, and I say this law does not speak of any perpetrator, aggressor and something, but directly and exclusively of the rights of the victim. So, we heard the story, an individual case that Mr. Horvat presented and believe me as long as I'm a minister, it's both my own and my personal beliefs, both political and family, I could even use that paraphrase that Mr. Jovanovic said when he selectively approached the victim, then really in the morning if I got up and looked in the mirror, I would spit in what I see in the reflection. So Mr. Buric, whom I highly appreciate, was some of the thesis that is very dangerous, but he thinks he's in a justifiable or extenuating circumstance I think he missed the topic. So he talked about aggression, about events in aggression, but what we want to avoid could be read, and we will certainly avoid it. So here we are talking about victims of sexual abuse to Croatian citizens and citizens. That's why we put in the fact that we're going to add a place to stay because of you in '91. Not everyone had our citizenship at that time. But the law applies exclusively to them, to the victims. So, not on the Chetnik, but let's just say the thesis that would have gotten out of some step that you were raped who you were guilty of being there at the time is simply not holding water and we can't talk about it at all. There were talks about the amounts and why we're going with this law after this law, the Law of Foundation. We're going right out of seriousness and out of responsibility. I'm sure there's some amount being mentioned here, I won't mention the amount but the foundation when it's filled will be divided to the last of the victims, and by then we'll have the number of victims and categories as we put it because we've seen that human wickedness, malice or crime that a man can do to a man, so the category of rape is really just the starting category. So anything else that happens can develop into an even more horrible category than this one, which in itself is horrible. So, when we talk about these amounts, we're going to build a foundation that they were interested in, and I said that this morning, and our friends from the EU and the world. 'Cause look, we're not going to make that mistake again, and now I'm going back to what I said earlier, we had that kind of mistake in rebuilding when the foreigners wanted to participate in the restoration, and then ours, when they brought them to some street, said they needed to rebuild house number one, two, four, seven, 15 and 26. And these are the other ones who asked. Well, it's Serbian houses. The stranger said okay, I understood, he picked himself up and left. And then Croatia actually renewed, we're over 96, 97% alone, and we could take some things from strangers. At the very end of the line, as we have said, our law is a modern law that recognizes both the people of Europe and the world, and that will certainly when we bring it in, it will be applied in other areas and in the area of the former Yugoslavia where there have been war conflicts, wars, but I'm safe somewhere else. And for the very end, I repeat once again, I ask you to deliver your remarks to the Ministry. Anything we can do, however, we're in good faith. There is no here and there was... opportunity, so we won't be hitting on who could, who should, who wanted, who didn't want to, but we're going to make a good law that on the day when there's a vote of that law, that precisely because of these victims that are up at the gallery, but also many other anonymous ones you don't know about, I don't know about all, to be satisfied, to see that Croatia shows attention as it has already been said more times, better ever than ever. And that's why I expect it, and I'm sure we'll bring it in unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-26-0.u86930	Thank you, Minister. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill next week. For today, we will finish our work, and will continue on Wednesday, October 01 at 9.30 with the State's Attorney's Office's Report for 2013. Goodbye. Have a nice weekend. Session adjourned at 14.56 p.m. Proposal for a law on the rights of victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War, first reading, P.Z. No. 685. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusions. 1. A bill on the rights of victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War is passed. 1. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? What's the score? I find that unanimously with 103 votes for law passed, the conclusion is P.Z. 685.
