ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u85550	Dear colleagues and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, we continue at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament, so in the already established agenda, but before that we have one oath in the Croatian Parliament. The oath shall be given in a way that the President or Chairman shall read the text of the oath, and after that the representative shall, when appointed, rise up and say "I swear". The text of the oath reads: "I swear by my honor that I will exercise consciously and responsibly in my work the Constitution, the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia." The oath is given by representative Marina Lovric Merzel.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u85551	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u85552	The oath is the business obligation of the elected representative in the Croatian Parliament. Congratulations. Now let's go... What?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u85554	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, given that I say, in a dramatic way, it may be a mildly said situation in agriculture and given the latest measures that surround our villages and Slavonia and others, which come from the Ministry of Agriculture, which is therefore paying for, let me now say, maybe I will say that in the debate, review of the sprinklers, courses in the use of pesticides, emergency agricultural aid and all the things that plague our village which is actually social, I am asking you 10 minutes of rest so that this thing that many villagers report to me from Slavonia, Srijema and Baranja, that you give me the word to say something in the Croatian Assembly, and that is making many citizens quiet, mainly in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u85555	Dear Representative Ivan Shuker [[Intruder: Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u85556	For the same reasons, the HDZ Club is looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u85557	It is a stalking standard of work of the Croatian Parliament, unfortunately, we will stick to it although we are not all in this as there is no matter to discuss. We can only hear one side of the club stand. Okay. Since the standard has been adopted, I'm setting a break. I'll see you at 45, enough of you, you know what you're gonna say. At 9.45. Thank you very much. It's 9:00.33. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] I call on the respected Bora Grubisic HDSSB to state the club's position on the topic sought by the club itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u85559	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. We are witnessing daily commercials on the media or private or public media HRT price of meat, for example the return of pork from 18.99 or buta 23.99 etc. It is clear that the Croatian peasant and any peasant in Europe cannot produce at that price pork meat. It is quite clear that it is imports and that this imports have already destroyed pig farming and reduced it to 20% of what the Croatian village in pigs is producing. But what is measured by the registration of the OPG and the payment at the registration of the OPG, then the legalisation of agricultural facilities that is very expensive and is at a cost of 200,300 thousand kuna, and then the dairy industry that is reduced to 400 million liters, and Croatia spends a billion liters of milk, and then, with this mutilated total pig farming, the peasant has become a social category here in the village and villages of Slavonia, which is surrounded by one such letter without the signature, without the stamps, with nothing to say: "The 1st day at 10.00 p.m. The Faculty of Agriculture from Osijek organizes a review of the sprinklers for use in warfare and fruit production. All sprinklers shall be subject to this control regardless of age because from the 26th November it will not be possible to use sprinklers without examination. licenses. For details of the review, call the number and that, the sprinkler testing will be carried out at that and that place." I am so that, given the EU directives, the sprinklers are correct, and the farmer is also so that he does not spend too much money, but afterwards he must take a course for the use of pesticides, herbicides, insecticides that last 15 hours and pay 600 kuna. This paper on which it says send away, and there's no stamp doesn't say how much it costs to review tractor sprinklers, and it costs if I called that free phone and got the information that the smallest sprinkler's tractor license is 580 kuna. When you add up the pesticide use course, when you add up the spray license, it comes out about 1,200 kuna. This is if you take more than a thousand tons of wheat or 600 litres of milk minimum. What does that mean? I asked how it was handled in other EU countries? The directive is good, let the peasants know the pesticides and the course is good and a review of the sprinklers that must be done every three years, so 580 kuna for the smallest sprinkler, and for those of 800 kuna sprinklers, depending on the diameter of the dispersion of the spraying agent. So I asked how it was resolved, I was told that every country that has entered the EU has sought funds for this very purpose from the Rural Development Fund, measures 1 and 2 and that the EU has been kind enough to help the country so that farmers have the right machines and to implement this pesticide course. If we're talking about a price of 580 kuna and 600 kuna says half goes to someone who examines machines, it's a Faculty of Agriculture or private licensed companies, there are those and half of the state. I wonder, sir, if it isn't in the state's interest to have trained peasants, proper agricultural machines to help that peasant pass cheaper, to spend less money on this than 580 kuna and for a rate of 600 kuna. They also pay for first aid, emergency aid in agriculture, and the course of the driving exam is not valid, and they drive the tractor and take the driver's test. This course does not need another emergency course, and there are many things that say in the Bosnian Force on the villa just can't take it anymore, and the village and the villages become empty. So is it in the interest of anyone here in this country or is it an interest to be a undertaker of agriculture and end once with finally helping in any way or to reduce this price or to have the state participate at that price or to withdraw funds from the EU because this job has to be completed during this and 2015. I think there's still room for our peasants, the O.P.G., to help. I asked how many sprinklers there are in Croatian tractors, I was told 80 thousand times 600 kuna, that's 48 million kuna, and the OPG 180 times 600 kuna for the course is 108. So 150 million kunas will be taken on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u85560	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u85561	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u85562	On behalf of the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament, respected representative Ivan Shuker on the same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u85563	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. It was announced yesterday that GDP dropped 4.7% compared to the 8th month last year. Something that many expected would happen, and that ping-pong with the growth of industrial production this year is a little weird. But what is particularly worrying is that one of the main reasons for this decline is the decline of the food industry, that means automatic and agriculture, and if we look at the structure of GDP, once agriculture was over 5% of GDP, it fell below 3.6%. And when you look at the overall decline in GDP in recent years, the most drastic decline is recorded by construction and agriculture. Whether this happens in agriculture by chance or because someone has not recognised what Croatian agriculture needs at the time of entry into the European Union and when we become a member of the European Union, I would say this is another. Because when you look at only some segments of agriculture then you will see that last year the decline in milk production was 100 million liters, 100 million liters for one Croatia that spends somewhere around a billion liters a year is terrible. However, there was another indicator that passed undetected and that that year the increase in beef exports was about 30, 40%, and these are nothing more than dairy milk farms' cows, which were built in 2005-2011 with the capital support of the Croatian State, today more than all of these dairy farms have disappeared. Whether someone has played a game with that bacteria in the milk of Croatian producers and thus eliminated Croatian milk producers, it is also a big question that no one has ever answered. The same story is the moment the European Community imposed sanctions on Russia, the normal thing to do is show up on the European market a surplus of agricultural products. After that moment, some discounted, advertising meat prices splattered Croatia. Whether it is meat from Croatian producers or imported from somewhere else at some small price and unfortunately all these big chains simply look at how they will earn and not what they will sell to Croatian citizens. What is a fact and for which not all of us but one part of this assembly have raised hands over the past 3 years, which is the vote of the 2012, 2013 and 2014 budget is that the subsidies in agriculture in 2014 are less than 16% compared to 2011. Now, colleagues and colleagues are asking one question whether the Croatian farmer at the level at which he was able to compete with reduced subsidies to producers who are highly organised and joined by the European Community and we have become part of the common market. So all this is saying that someone simply didn't want to deal with the problem of farmers, didn't want to deal with the use of agriculture, it was far more important to list cooking boilers so that someone wouldn't accidentally bake 10 liters of brandy more, less than help farmers and then list these boilers and sprinklers in some future times because in a year or two days after the entry of the European Union, Croatia won't lose much on alcohol consumption. But it only says what our relationship is and the latest example is the Mandarin and who fought more for the Mandarins in Brussels, whether the Ministry of Agriculture or the EU representatives. Obviously, if there hadn't been a political battle, the agriculture minister wouldn't have even reacted and eventually they would have paid for the Mandarin producers in the Neretva Valley. However, you should know that the government has, by means of a price subsidy and a guaranteed price of mandarin, practically put the market in order and Croatia has become one of the major exporters of Mandarin. It is only one indicator when a systematic policy is conducted that you can then very much succeed in the demanding market, but it has not happened and Croatia is now flooded with frozen meat ask God what age of sustainability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u85564	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues and colleagues for the general Croatian public, I must say that the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament foresees the possibility that any representative of the Croatian Parliament may ask a representative question to the Government of the Republic of Croatia or to other institutions in the Republic of Croatia that are obliged to answer the representative. In addition, clubs and representatives also have a business opportunity and the obligation to propose acts to the Croatian Assembly for those matter and matters they care about, whether on the ground as they say or from their political parties. It would be good for these interventions to end with a proposal. Thank you very much. Now we will continue to work on the established agenda. - Report of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia for 2013; Report was delivered by the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. You received the materials, of course. The report was discussed by the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered its opinion. This report, I would say here, will represent and present the new state lawyer of the Republic of Croatia, Honorable Dinko Cvitan, in the new term, I congratulate him again on the mandate and I want the mandate to be done in the best way for the Croatian state and Croatian citizens and Croatian legal persons. Does he want an introductory explanation? Here's your esteemed state attorney. Dinko Cvitan, a respected state attorney. ... You've got half an hour and you can still discuss it many times in five minutes, and then at the end, you can go back half an hour. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You've got plenty of time. Here you go, thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86933	Dear Mr. President, honourable MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia submitted a report for 2013. When I say state attorney's office, I mean the entire state's attorney's office, the 33 municipal state's attorney's office, the 15 county attorney's offices, the anti-corruption and organised crime offices and the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. That Law also prescribed the content of the report, the report on the state and movement of the reported crime in the previous year, on matters relating to the protection of the property interests of the Republic of Croatia and the legal issue in certain areas, and on the organisation and status of staff in the State Attorney's Office. The report of course contains statistical indicators according to certain thematic elements which I will highlight in my opening speech only if they are relevant for the analysis of the state and movement of the reported criminality, its dangers for society as a whole and the situation relating to the protection of the property of the Republic of Croatia. Since the State Attorney's Office has criminal and civil-government cases, the report shall specifically analyse the work of the State's Attorney's Office in criminal matters, and in particular work in civil and administrative matters. In addition to that, the report contains data on the staff bases for work, the material and financial situation of the State's attorney, the identified shortcomings and the internal business of the State's attorney's office. The report also refers to the legislative framework that is relevant for our work, namely the application of new laws and laws that have been amended, which warns about the shortcomings in the legislation. In relation to certain areas, proposals for improving work were made when possible. I note that the report does not contain data on certain items, in accordance with Article 125. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Articles 2 and 40. Law on State's Attorney's Office. The Law on the State Attorney's Office also states that if the Croatian Parliament assesses the necessary positions regarding the state and movement of crime and the protection of the property interests of the Republic of Croatia and the protection of legality in general, it will establish the obligations of competent ministries and other state bodies in order to improve the effectiveness of criminal prosecution in order to prevent crime and improve the protection of property interests. The main feature of the state and movement of crime for 2013 is the huge decline in the number of applications against celebrities 17% and against unknown persons by 9%. The number of applications has dropped primarily due to the entry into force of the new Penal Code, which has decriminalised some crimes so far, such as drug possession, domestic violence and others, and has moved into a criminal zone of punishment, while the change in value has reduced the number of property offences for which they are carried out under official duty. In 2013, a total of 71287 applications were received, which is 13% less than in the previous 2012. Compared to younger minors and minors, the decline in applications is 19% and 44% compared to legal persons. He is particularly concerned that for the first time the number of charges against unknown perpetrators has exceeded the number of charges against known perpetrators. In 2013, civil and administrative departments of state attorneys had fewer cases in work than in 2012. The main reason for the reduction is the reduction in the size of public lawyers' affairs in the register of state assets because most of these transactions have been done in previous years. Although, following the entry into force of the fifth Novel of the Criminal Procedure Act, work in the previous procedure has been significantly increased as investigations are now being carried out for criminal offences with a suspended sentence of more than 5 years, and there are also additional obligations in investigating criminal offences with prescribed penalties of up to 5 years, so far the update has been retained. When I speak up-to-date, that means they've been unsettled on the occasion of a two-month inflow of criminal charges. In particular, in criminal proceedings, the success of the State's Attorney's Office depends on the effectiveness and quality of the work of the body's detection and reporting of criminal offences, and therefore the effectiveness of the State's attorney's office will be so much higher if the work of other bodies is in the detection and collection of data and evidence of a better quality and efficiency. The number of state lawyers has been rationalised, the size of the job has been increased, the number of officials remained at the level last year, but 11 state lawyers were unfulfilled compared to the systematicised jobs on December 31st 2013. The responsibilities are being met and during this year these posts are being completed, i.e. competitions are under way to fill these jobs, i.e. the procedure for the appointment of state lawyers and 128 seats of deputy state attorneys. There is also a significant unfulfilled number of 164, trainees 154 and number of posts, primarily due to lack of funds, and in the case of officials with special interests and due to small incomes and very low coefficients, it is difficult to find candidates with an adequate level of knowledge and skills for these jobs. First of all, I think of IT experts and other specialists in specialized professions. The state's attorney's office has problems in certain areas with filling vacant jobs. In addition, we see the problem in the way of the appointment of deputy municipal state attorneys. When we look at the figures and take it as a reference year in 2012, it takes that year as a reference because this first full year is the application of the new CAP, so let's say, so the law where the prosecutor's investigation is conducted, the number of officials, I'm talking about the citizens, but the chances are 2/3, there were 617. On the day of 15.8 this year, there were 612.5 of them. The number of advisors has been significantly increased, there are 182, but only 31 graduated from the state school, which is now finishing state school. We have 151 young men who have finished, passed a judicial exam without the possibility of such a legal procedure, with such regulations that we have that for the next two years at least they become the deputies of the state's attorneys. The number of trainees is negligible, he was only six on 15.8th of this year. The number of employees increased by 4. In total, about 60 people are smaller than in 2012 and what I simply have to mention, we simply don't have a well, a pool, or a human resources base to fill a deputy state attorney's place, and that's what's worrying. The procedure itself of becoming deputy state attorney is quite complex. Namely, after a college that lasts 5 years before me through the Ministry of Justice, so the competition becomes a trainee, after 2 years of internships a very complex judicial exam is passed. It is then applied to a two-year state school, a final exam is passed and as I say in the best 40 years, it becomes a beginner or a deputy state attorney. We need to seriously consider and shorten this procedure because the fact is, from experience, you can recognize a man after two years of working that I will be a good state attorney or not be a good state attorney, but there are places and jobs for each of them. Despite the above stated State's Attorney's Office as well as earlier years up-to-date. The report discusses increased efforts. These efforts have reached a level of inhumanity in some state's attorneys. Working especially in the State's Attorneys in Zagreb, municipal, county USKOK I will not speak to it every day on Saturdays, Sundays, 12, 16 hours a day. People get sick. And in addition to that, the fact is that when we look at the state's attorneys only where the state's attorneys are going, they're looking for a new job, they're looking for a better paying job, they're doing it from the state's attorneys' offices in Zagreb. The fact that nobody leaves the BUSKOK doesn't leave, nobody will come, but when they do, when they get used to that environment, when they get used to that kind of work they want to stay working. They certainly don't do it for money, they don't do it for high wages, they just do it because they think they're doing a socially valuable job. The specified material resources are not sufficient to work. The resources achieved for the work of state attorneys in 2013 have enabled the operation of basic jobs and the settlement of basic day-to-day obligations. However, they are not sufficient for the costs of proceedings to which the State's Attorney's Office cannot influence. It is a question of paying mandatory defences, costs and witnesses, skills that cannot be later carried out, etc. etc. The fact is that I already spoke on committees, the State's Attorney's Office on 1.9 was a debt of 8.4 million kuna for intellectual services, translation services, and most of all for art services. Without practice, in particular in cases of economic crime, a state lawyer cannot make a decision, it cannot conclude whether there is a reasonable doubt or whether there is no reasonable doubt of the initiation of a criminal charge or of bringing a negative decision, i.e. the suspension of an investigation. In this context, I also wrote to the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Justice and asked him to provide us with funds through budget rebalancing, because it is important to have a different position in the debt of the State's Attorney's Office or the debt of the court. The attorney general is a party to the proceedings. Although as a party in the process if he does not pay his dues in time within the legal time limits in that situation, we will find ourselves not to want to artificialise any more. I'll repeat what I said yesterday on the board. The fact is that an expert who received a warrant, who spent a short period of time art, wrote me a letter and begged to be paid at least the VAT he paid in May this year 5000 kuna. As far as education is concerned, there is not enough resources for education. We don't have the money to pay for the quotations and pay for the logs, etc. and some state lawyers who want to educate themselves, and that is our obligation for lifelong education themselves to pay the cost of going to seminars, pay for the quotations themselves. There's also no money for professional literature. You're witnesses here, you're making laws that are the amount of law that should simply chew what I say. So you need to know these laws so you can apply them. We should have professional literature. There's no money for that either. As far as technical equipment was concerned, in 2013, it was in very poor condition. I have to say this year's significant progress has been made. Also when I was talking about the staff, I'm going to mention that it's in the state's attorney's offices where the technical conditions have been secured that started with the full implementation of the CTS system. It is an electronic file management system, i.e. the monitoring of cases in the work of the State's attorneys. One of the preconditions for the implementation of the CTS is the integration of a network of state attorneys' infrastructure with the justice ministry's infrastructure. It says in the report that at the 28 locations of the state's attorneys, Hitronet was missing. That problem is now solved. But why do I mention CTS? Because the data is being entered into the CTS by the deputies of the state's attorneys. It's not their job. It's the work of the administration. However, there are not enough employees to do this job, and without the CTS, we cannot have control over the work of state attorneys. In view of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia since 15 December 2013, it was necessary to amend the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act and, consequently, to follow the laws. Amendments to the Law on the Criminal Procedure of the Fifth Novel, which entered into force on 15 December 2013, have significantly changed the powers of the State's attorney in the previous procedure. In accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, the Court's supervision of the work of the State's Attorney's Office has been increased. Although it is too short to give an assessment, the first indicator provides a basis for arguing that the procedure has become more complex and will partly affect efficiency in the course of action. The work done so far in the application of the new law on criminal proceedings both in the jurisdiction of the USKOK and in the work of regular state attorneys shows that the main burden remains in complex cases in the collection of evidence on the state's attorney. The experience of USKOK shows that it is extremely useful for a team of state lawyers to be joined by police officers and officials from other state bodies, primarily tax administrations. I will again point out that the State Attorney's Office is responsible for decisions and effectiveness in the course of criminal proceedings while the police and other bodies must take over the main burden of detecting and preventing criminal offences by making the number of applications filed against known persons in the fall. After the entry into force of the 2008 Criminal Procedure Act, the time of the investigation was primarily changed and the really investigative proceedings were accelerated. But yesterday I said that I wasn't sure and we're going to do one analysis to see if there was a total acceleration of the whole process. So, I speak to the power of judgment. I point out that on the basis of the busy position of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, the State Attorney's Office took over 358 cases with 914 persons in which the investigation was launched during the old CAP's validity. So the investigating judge made a decision on the conduct of the investigation. So none of these investigations are under three years old. Some are over 10 years old. Now the state's attorneys when they got those cases have six months to complete the investigation. What hasn't been solved in 10 years has to be resolved in six months. That's where we'll meet the big cost problems. Where they are found, an account will be made to a state attorney or to the State Attorney's Office. The problem is, of course, the biggest in Zagreb, the Municipal and County State's Attorney's Office. However, we are analysing this situation and we are going to give, we are going to refer to these cases, or we are going to give to other state attorneys so that we can establish on the one hand the even burden of state attorneys, deputy state attorneys, and on the other hand, so that within the deadlines set, how does the law complete the investigations, make state-law decisions. The number of applications was reduced as I said compared to 2012 and that is 13% of the total number less, in 2013, as I also said the number of applications against unknown persons who were 36 012 higher than the number of applications against celebrities of 35 257. The decline in the number of criminal charges against unknown perpetrators is 9%, compared to celebrities 17%, against minors 19%, younger adult 19%, adults 16% and legal persons 44%. The report states that the drop in the number of registered applications is significant and it is necessary to monitor the movement of the number of applications and to inform the authorities of the disclosure of these data and to establish the reasons at the joint meetings. We had an extended college last week consisting of all the county state's attorneys and five municipal state attorneys, the largest municipal state attorneys, and we were doing an analysis. Trend continues to show a slight drop in the number of criminal charges, mild. So, as big as it was in 2013, it wasn't, but I talked to the Chief Director of Police, and I agreed that we would have one meeting where all the chiefs of police administrations and all the county state's attorneys would be and that we would do a joint analysis and analyze what actions we must take, which measures we must take in particular to combat corruption at local level and organised crime. As regards the structure of the registered celebrities is similar to the previous years, most of them are adult and the biggest decline in the application against legal persons is primarily due to a reduction in the number of applications for economic fraud. In its work, the State Attorney's Office shall pay particular attention and shall carefully consider, on the basis of monthly reports, the resolution of older applications, quality and success in the proceedings in the cases of adults, in cases against minors and minors in the manner of resolution and in the special application of the opportunities, because in these proceedings, the primary purpose is not to punish but to help a young person. Therefore, cases against legal persons and cases within the competence of the USKOK. As for the solution to the number of applications, the State's Attorney's Office said the statistics were successful in resolving the applications and the up-to-date has been retained by the fact that the number of pending applications is not worrying at all, however, good. As for the rejection of criminal charges, there is a control of the work of the State's attorney and state's attorney. In any event, when a criminal report is dismissed, the damage shall be delivered to the injured person with the right to continue the prosecution, thereby allowing judicial control of the decisions of the State's Attorney's Office. The discard decision shall also be delivered to the applicant, the suspect, if he so requests. In corruption cases, therefore, those which are in the jurisdiction of the Office for the Control of Corruption of Organized Crime, in which there are no damages, the applicant of the application may submit an objection under the USKOK Act and such a decision will be reconsidered by law until... State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The number of criminal acts has been reduced as a result of the amendment of the Penal Code has reduced the number of criminal offences for which its issue may be required. The number of criminal warrants will have to increase otherwise, given the amended CAP and the new obligations in the conduct of the investigation, the municipal state attorney's office will not be able to resolve all applications in time and successfully carry out the investigation and represent the indictments. As far as the number of investigations is concerned, there has been an increase in the number of investigations expected in view of changes to the law. The investigation was conducted against 1715 people, out of which 725 from the jurisdiction of the USKOK. However, this number 725 in the jurisdiction of the USKOK is actually a reflection of a large subject i.e. HIPCRAT operational actions. Of the 1715 investigations that were conducted, 1654 investigations were completed and a decision was taken in relation to 1350 people while 272 investigations were resolved in the same way. As far as success is concerned, only 60 indictments have been dropped before the Prosecution Council, which is a small number if we compare it to 10 1323 charges brought without criminal charges. The D.A.'s office received 8001 decisions from the Prosecution Council, 7641 charges or 95.5% were confirmed. The supplement returned 3.7% while only 64 charges at 0.8% were dropped. As for success in criminal proceedings in 2013, it marked high performance with 89% of convictions. As regards sanctions with regard to application in the form of sanctions, within the limits of the penalties prescribed in the new Penal Code, in particular provisions in the work for the general good at large were expected to significantly reduce the number of prison sentences imposed after the entry into force of the new Penal Code. As regards the majority of penalties imposed, the courts, in the rule of sanctions, impose in the lower third of the penalties prescribed for a particular offence, and in the municipal jurisdiction, the application of a conditional sentence as a warning measure is common. Given the number of relapses as well as the general movements of reported crime, it cannot be said that such a criminal policy is generally not appropriate, however, in certain cases it is necessary to apply the prison sentence as a warning to all not to violate certain regulations. The selective application of the prescribed sanctions in legal frameworks without further increasing the participation of the prison sentence as the most severe penalties may result in the purpose of penalties prescribed by law. As far as the rulings under the agreement in the public are concerned, it is often indicated that trade is in a negative context and it creates the impression that through agreements it is appropriate. And for this reason, because of these statements and these opinions, special attention is paid to monitoring the work of state lawyers in the procedures of the agreement. In 2013, 425 rulings were reached under the agreement, i.e. only 2.8% of the judgments of 14 936 convictions. In some cases, especially in matters of the jurisdiction of the USKOK, without reaching agreement and recognition of guilt by some of the indictees, these proceedings could not be successfully completed. State attorneys made 2483 complaints during 2013. That's from 14.9% of all convictions. As for the freezing of assets, the confiscation of property benefit during 2013 the state's attorneys without USKOK froze 70 million kuna, USKOK froze 196 million kuna's assets. They are not, in these figures, the value of the property that was not evaluated at that time, so it is a far larger amount. In the proceedings in 934 judgments, the courts decided by a first-degree ruling to confiscate the total asset benefit of EUR 210 million. As for working in cases against minors, except for a significant drop in the number of applications 19% as I said, there is no significant deviation in the structure itself compared to the previous year. There were 3503 applications in the paper. In the area of juvenile law, a new law on courts for young people has been implemented, resulting in an increase in the number of preparatory procedures. Criminal charges against minors for the particularity of working on these cases shall be carried out by the particularly appointed deputy for youth and professional associates of the defectological profession who are well aware of this issue and shall cooperate closely with the centres for social care, schools and other services involved in protecting and providing assistance to minors. For the purpose of helping this population as much as possible, a non-judgmental settlement shall be applied, which shall seek and without penalty, to achieve the purpose of the conduct of the proceedings. The work of the state's attorney's office in this area has been as up-to-date as ever, 38.7% of formerly registered minors show that the state's attorney's office and other bodies need to closely monitor the movement of juvenile crime especially if the relapse is growing. In 2012, the relapse was 36.4%, I repeat in 2013 38.7%. An application for a preparatory procedure has been submitted in relation to only 100 minors and for the most serious offences. A proposal to impose sanctions against 767 minors was adopted immediately without a preparatory procedure and after the completion of the preparatory procedure. Most of this is about the preparatory procedures carried out by judges for youth under the old law, the procedure has been suspended in relation to 13 minors by all application of the principle of purpose. In relation to 28 persons after the completion of the preparatory procedure, a proposal for sanctions has been submitted. The Council of Juvenile Courts made 669 decisions, of which 578 imposed sanctions on minors. It is mainly about educational measures, and only the exceptional penalties of juvenile law in only 4 cases, i.e.... Underage law in 52 cases. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as USKOK is concerned, the main thing is to say that USKOK has maintained a high level of success. This year it was, as far as the verdicts are concerned, 97.9%, so 98%. There's been an increase in the number of applications, I repeat, it's one subject and it's the subject of operational action Hippocrates. This has led to a significant increase in the number of investigations being conducted, however for the USKOK, it is stressed that on one hand there is an extremely small number as always criminal charges from the area of organised crime, but I warned myself yesterday, and I will say this today that there has been a drop in the number of organised crime reports. It was reduced to 2009 level. So, after 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011, there was a decline in the number of criminal charges for organised crime. In 2012, the trend was halted, in 2013 there was a fall in the application for organised crime. As far as punishment policy is concerned, it is much stricter than regular state lawyers, 46.8% are sentenced to prison sentences, and otherwise the average of all state attorneys is 14.8%. Penalty policy for USKOK's criminal offences is more important than the penalty policy for other state attorneys, including the county state's attorney's office, resulting in the simple danger of the crime of organised crime and corruption required by such sanctions. During 2013, the state's attorneys received 710 applications against legal persons in 1071. After years of increasing claims against legal persons, there has been a drastic decline and a 44% decrease as I have already said. Eight hundred and sixty applications were resolved, of which 253 remained unsolved from only one in the state's attorney's office. Following a final investigation against legal persons, 73 indictments were filed, since 63 investigations were suspended, 255 convictions of which 154 convicted, 48 liberating and 53 refuting. In 154 convictions, one member of the legal entity was sentenced, for 152 legal persons fines, 18 of which were suspended. As far as the crime is concerned, I would only have a few more basic lines against the crime of war crimes whose character is the work on these cases, the inaccessibility of the defendants is often witnessed. It is precisely because, in war crimes proceedings, the defendants, witnesses and evidence are largely located in the region. The conclusion of a direct exchange of evidence and assistance agreement has been initiated right between prosecutors in the region in war crimes cases. All the prosecution offices in the region have concluded special agreements for war crimes. In addition, by 2013 signed a war crimes agreement, on 3 June 2013, the DORH concluded with the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina a protocol on co-operation to prosecute perpetrators of war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide, of course with the previous opinion of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs and the Ministry of Justice. A total of 490 crimes have been reported from the war crimes database. I'm not talking about people, I'm talking about crimes, of which 319 crimes have been recorded by known perpetrators and 171 crimes by unknown perpetrators. The trials take place in four specialised courts and four specialized state attorneys, this largest one, Zagreb, Split, Osijek and Rijeka. Of course, it's about county state's attorneys. The disclosure body shall be continuously required to detect the perpetrator and collect evidence for processing purposes. Work on these cases, I would say, is co-ordinated on a daily basis between prosecutors and police officers, looking for data and evidence available to the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia database. All archive holders are required and documents on war crimes are provided, the prosecution in the region is asked for data, so these agreements are concluded, to point out, these are not interstate agreements that would oblige the State's attorney and commit the Republic of Croatia, it is simply an exchange of information on which we can take, or the bodies of discovery, take certain actions to detect the perpetrators of criminal offences and, of course, co-operate with NGOs and international organisations that also have possible useful data for working on these cases. Now, in my presentation, I would like to say a few words about the work on matters within the jurisdiction of the civil administration departments. In 2013, civil administration departments of state attorneys received 62,000 97 new cases, showing that the number of cases continues to be reduced. The number of court cases received is lower by 6% as the number of land books continue to decrease and the number of new administrative cases is reduced. The work of the Civil Administration Department can be divided into 3 groups, representation, protection of legality and legal opinions...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86934	The Honorable State Attorney, the opening exhibition brings an end and you will have the opportunity to engage in the debate after 5 minutes. We have a business limit. Thank you very much. Now we'll go to the replicas. First, honourable representative Josip Salapic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86935	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Dear Attorney General, here I am going to pick up where you left off. You mentioned the Civil Administration Department, I personally advocate the reorganisation and reconstruction of the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. You are in your report that is structurally similar to the previous reports in recent years, and it refers to your predecessor, Mr Baic. I think it would be good to re-establish the DORH so that this citizens' management department becomes a sort of service of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or a service that would be... to the Government, and that the State's Attorney's Office deals exclusively with criminal persecution and therefore, by punishing the perpetrators of criminal acts in accordance with the laws that we bring here in the Croatian Parliament. You've highlighted financial problems yourself, you can't expect efficiency or good results in certain procedures if there's not enough resources, if there's no equipment, if there's no money for education, then maybe you should think about the time ahead, and we're looking for a high professionality and responsibility to see it, thinking in this direction about constitutional changes, that both the system and the state's attorney's organisation should change in a way that this civil administration department puts into a different service than it is today. And yet another question that we can open in the debate, here in the report are structurally listed, so those elements by criminal proceedings, we will, when it is further debated, but what I would mention, is whether there are cases where officials, officials, deputies within the State's Attorney's office and Uskok, and we will violate our powers in certain proceedings, whether a case has been conducted against such persons because we have witnessed that in a number of important cases for the interests of Croatia, certain information has gone to the media and the public, which in my opinion has threatened the judicial process and what is being achieved by the process itself, which is that the persons who have committed the crimes are really punished, but in a procedure which will be completely independent and the result of what is the task of the State's attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86936	Thank you very much. Does he want to... Replication response, Attorney General, Honorable Dinko Cwitan.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86937	Dear Representative Salapic, as far as the reorganisation is concerned, so the constitution needs to be changed and I now have to appreciate that we have two departments, a criminal and a civil administration department and while this is so uniquely going to function as a state attorney. As far as the tightest procedures are concerned, there are data on the stricter procedures carried out, so the phasing-out procedures are carried out by the state's attorneys based on procedures initiated by the state's attorneys for violation of the law in the State's attorney's office. What are you talking about, leaking information, I'll tell you now. There's never been a leak. The fact is that the media wrote, they wrote about it, and they were actually coming out of the records that were secret at the time, today they are..., the difference is kind of irrelevant, but it's kind of a thing, but the fact is that these data from the State's Attorney's office didn't leak no matter what perception the public is. I'm just because it wouldn't be the wrong perception of the public, I as a state attorney just don't want to communicate with the media, except here's when they stop me in front of the Parliament, for example. But I'm saying it's just for perception, responsiblely I'm telling you, no data because what would our interest be to get your data out? For what? We want to succeed in this process, we want to be, act as responsible people, and indeed where there is evidence, regardless of what party it is, about party membership, we want this procedure to be legally implemented with respect to all the Constitution of guaranteed citizens' rights. That's what I'm responsible for.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86938	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Miroslav Tudjman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86939	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. The public and media claim is that public business managers and public sector managers often go to the public lawyer to ask if they should be signed or not to sign a contract. I'd be interested, since we haven't even heard from this oral report, and I don't think I found that information in this written report, is there any record of such cases, of such requests? What are the dimensions of this and depending on what are motives, reasons, whether political nature, that people be sure and that or the legal nature because of the non-compliance of certain laws, then there is no knowledge of what to do? So it would be interesting to know that because then it can be drawn from that a number of other conclusions, that now it doesn't.... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86940	Replication response, respected attorney general, Dinko Cwitan.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86941	Your Honor, Agent Tudjman, I don't know that anyone from a public firm would ever come to the State's Attorney's office and ask if they could sign any kind of contract. The state's attorney's office isn't on the team. I don't know about that. The fact is that the State's Attorney's Office can give views on the content of certain contracts when asked about them, but it is known exactly what the procedure is and whose property interests are at stake. I have to say if you'll excuse me, I've spoken to my friends who I went to high school with who told me they were afraid to sign contracts and work in companies, some of them work in public enterprises. I told them then to treat the property like someone else's or at least as their own. So I don't see any reason why anyone would come to the State's Attorney's Office to guarantee that because of the signing of the contract what's said will not end up in prison. This would be really excessive and it would be an impossible situation if the State's Attorney's office took on such a role. I claim that this role has not been taken over.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86942	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86943	The Honorable State Attorney you spoke in the introduction with this service in view of its importance in Croatia's banal problems or they should actually be banal. According to your appeals, they are essential. The DORH loses credibility, and that's exactly what you're talking about because he's in debt, which he doesn't have enough money, which he doesn't pay his dues. And by law, we have prescribed a state-of-the-art status of the DORH as neither Germany, France, Switzerland nor the state has any specific law on state attorneyship, basic standards on the situation, organisation and functioning of the State's attorney's office are in the laws on courts, and the jurisdiction in the procedure is regulated by criminal proceedings. In Germany, the State Attorney's Office is considered part of the judiciary in a broad sense, the State's Attorney's Office does not belong to the judicial authority because it belongs only to the authorities that judge the attorney general and the federal prosecutors appointed the president on a proposal from the Minister of Justice. A similar way of choosing is also prescribed in France. In Croatia, the State's Attorney's Office is an independent and independent judicial body. The model meets societies with the highest democratic standards with the highest democratic principles, among which the leading standard would be zero tolerance towards political influence on the work and decisions of the State's Attorney's office. Now, did Croatia just reach those standards when the State's Attorney's office has to cobble even with money? It's a kind of pressure on the state's attorney's office. We're a non-serious state. How are you going to haunt someone when they're after the DORH for money, and in the case of Al Capone, we know very well that money is very important.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86944	The reply to the replica is respected Attorney General Dinko Cwitan.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86945	Dear Representative Vuksic, I find this situation rather dramatic. I'm just warning you there's no funds for our basic treatment. I have to say that years ago it was that condition, but that's what we're dealing with with with with budget rebalances. And as far as the constitutional position of the State's Attorney's Office is concerned, my opinion is that the State's Attorney's Office must be an independent and independent judicial body as defined by the Constitution. In the situation, we have experience from neighbouring countries when the state's attorney has entered part of the executive authority or under the Ministry of Justice or in certain situations under the MUP, the meaning of the state's attorney is lost. The state's attorney was created as an institution to be one zone that would question what the police were doing and would go to court with it. Of course, I agree with you in that section that I'm not credible as a state attorney or any of my colleagues if I owe someone a favor. That's why I brought it up as a problem, and I expect the problem to be solved as it was in earlier years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86946	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Dragan Montenegrin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86947	Dear Mr Cvitan, this entire report is undergoing a lack of resources to carry out investigations, recruiting experts, a lack of resources to work, which leads to abandonment of investigations, or they are unskilled, and the sound that this is depicted in the report itself, I have some sense of mild apocalyptic state. However, as we can see, this report is signed by Mr. Bajic's former chief state attorney, and you, as we know, have been here for a little over half a year at the head of state's attorney. In view of all these lacks of funds here, we can see in the report even 800 computers, computers that are obsolete, etc. And not to talk about other things. I am interested in the question of whether after more than half a year you can tell me whether the Croatian Parliament, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and all those who are staying or coming to the Republic of Croatia should be concerned about their legal certainty in that part of which that legal security is concerned and is being taken care of by the State's Attorney's Office and USKOK? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86948	The reply to the replica is respected Attorney General Dinko Cwitan.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86949	Dear Representative of the Montenegrins, I don't see the state described in the report as an apocalyptic state. On the other hand, it is true that this report was signed by Mladen Bajic, my predecessor as chief state attorney. But at the time, I was the director of USKOK who worked on a large number of cases that had great attention and this assembly throughout the years. Therefore, this report of the state lawyers on the applications and actions made to protect the real estate interests of the Republic of Croatia and I personally believe that it is relevant who signed this report, this is the report on the work of the state's attorneys, which is methodologically done on the basis of the report by all state lawyers in the Republic of Croatia according to the methodology found here. So the situation isn't apocalyptic, it's first, and second, no one needs to worry about their security as far as the state's attorney's office is concerned. As far as criminal persecution is concerned, it will go against anyone who has evidence that he has committed a criminal offence regardless of who or what the world's worlds are, political commitment, etc., etc. As for the protection of property interests, they are prescribed by the laws of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia, or the State Attorney's Office, on his behalf, will do everything on behalf of the protection of the property interests of the Republic of Croatia. So no one should worry because the state of Croatia is a free and secure state.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86950	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare-Ozbolt, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86951	Dear State Attorney-General, we heard in your report a lot of concrete figures, we heard an increased number of cases discovered, corrupt cases, however, when we look at the European Commission's corruption index reports, and then the European Institute of Corruption in the Business World report, and some other GRECO reports on the degree of corruption in Croatia, then for that same year there is no difference in perception compared to open cases, much greater progress in the work of the State's Attorney's Office, much better results, it is simply that citizens do not valorize to a sufficient extent the business community, so there has been no even awareness. So the number of cases processed in relation to the perception in Croatia about the state of corruption is not even. So I'm simply asking you what reason this is, I'm aware of the fact that the issue is much broader than this topic that we're discussing today, but you're here in response, which is why, is that still a lack of trust, is it perhaps a matter of these agreements that are being concluded, and they are in some way wrongly perceived in the public, is that some third reasons, I would be interested in when it will simply overlap, efficiency and better perception of the repression of corruption in Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86952	The reply to the replica is the State's Attorney-General, the Honorable Dinko Cwitan.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86953	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear MPs Skare-Ozbolt, when that time will come I have no idea, I don't know. The fact that there's a difference between perceptions, for years we've been tracking the data published by Transparency International and I naively expected when some things happened a few years ago that perception would change, that we'd get those more points so we'd finally get to the five, which means enough, now we're under the line, we're not enough. But that raises another question, it's a question of dark numbers. I haven't had time right now, but we all know that public procurement procedures are actually one of the fundamental problems that is happening in our country. Now the question is whether we have good mechanisms, many experts say that we have one of the best laws that treats public procurement, we have a Commission to control public procurement operations, but the fact is that where the complaint is made, this is not fixed, but there are no complaints in the mass of competitions. Why no complaints? Because the procedure was staged. Now I'm saying, now you can ask me what I've done. I say that, I know, but I can't prove it, but I have to try to collect evidence, and you can't collect evidence unless someone tells you that. Of course, the word itself means nothing but has to be confirmed with a whole series of facts, etc., etc. Now let's not mention specific procedures. These opinions of NGOs are important, however, also when we look at the GRECO report and when it comes to the authorities in charge of persecution, it seems to me that USKOK is the only one, therefore in the GRECO Council of Europe, who received a positive assessment, the only one. And also, on the other hand, the fact that the office that is therefore in line with the UN Convention and on Corruption, organised crime as a special body, has been established to make a major leap. Now again if you ask me if I'm satisfied, I'm not. I repeat black number, dark number, dark side is big. How much depends on... Disclosures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86954	Thank you very much. Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86955	Thank you very much. Mr. Chief Attorney-General, so far there have been a lot of words about the budget of the State Attorney's Office, i.e. USKOK's 2013 budget. Of course, I agree with all those who warn that it is illogical at least and then, of course, inadmissible that the authority, that the body it is investigating, is accusing it of debt. And that is the obligation of all of us now at the end of this report, namely the debate on the report to draw conclusions as we have before us the rebalancing of the state budget and to see if there is anything that can be done. However, I find it particularly interesting, and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on this report for 2013 where the Government warns us at the beginning of the report that the State's Attorney's Office did not show the figures well, so the data relating to the budget used and implemented in 2013. This is very unusual, this is what I remember never happened that some government objected, actually objecting in its opinion to the budget of the state's attorneys. So I ask you that perhaps I think it is important at the beginning of the debate to clarify how we could really agree and agree on the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament at the end of the debate to commit some activities to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86956	Replication response, Attorney General Dinko Cwitan.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86957	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs Kosor, the government of the Republic of Croatia has noticed a slight difference in numbers. However, what is important is that correction will be made on our part. However, what is important is that the State Attorney's Office has not spent more resources than has been allocated. So all the tasks have been made under these funds and all the work that has been laid down by law has been done on an up-to-date basis. The fact is that this has happened, but I don't think it essentially touches the content of this report itself and that the report transparently shows the work of the state's attorneys and this error will be corrected.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86958	Thank you very much, well-respected attorney general. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament want to present reports? They don't want to. Before I open the debate according to the new practice of the Croatian Parliament, I think it is a good, itinerary session through the agenda. Today we would do, discuss the 1st, 2nd and 3rd agenda, tomorrow we would discuss the 4th, 5th, 6th and 7th points and the 10th, 11th and 12th points of the agenda. On Friday, they would first vote on the done, done, discussed agenda points, and then work on the 8th and 9th points of the Croatian Parliament's agenda after the vote. So that's the plan. Thank you very much. And now I am opening a debate on the State Attorney's Report for the Republic of Croatia for 2013. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is next to the Croatian Labour Club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86959	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Your Honor, Attorney General. Well, reading this report, I came to the conclusion that this government hasn't given up yet, at least not entirely from outsourcing, spin off, in a house or a similar model, and probably one of these models will be applied to the State's Attorney's Office. In any case, the ruling coalition is dominated by advocates that everything needs to be privatised. We have an example, there are even private prisons in America, and now the prime minister is there, so maybe he'll get some experience from there. But frankly, in this report it was written in some way or suggested how privatisations were done in the Croatian way. First you destroy something and then you monetize it or you capitalize it or you simply deliver it to some private, entrepreneur, excuse me. How else do you explain the fact that the General State Attorney's Office, which should be the main bearer of the fight against corruption, organised crime, and with one another we have huge problems, is owed to witches 8.4 million kuna. How to explain the fact that 457 jobs are unfulfilled in this report, although we have heard that the situation has changed somewhat in the meantime, but not for the better, and that 40 people are less employed than in 2012. How do you explain the government's policy which, by underinvestment, makes it impossible for the DORH to be more efficient and efficient? The main state attorney in his report finds that because of insufficient funds and small incomes, it is not possible to find candidates with an adequate level of knowledge and specialized professions, especially in terms of economic crime. That's exactly what the report says. I believe that everyone is aware that people who are employed in the DORH, after all, also the chief state attorney himself described this procedure and the necessary expertise of these people, that they really must not only be professional but practically have to be experts, especially when it comes to economic crime. And this short-term finance, or by adopting a budget that practically makes it impossible for them to work, is the question of whether it was done on purpose, on purpose, whether it was a matter of the incomparability and inadequacy of this government to understand the problems arising from this insufficient funding. As a result of the lack of resources employed by the State Attorney's Office, they are forced to buy from their own resources the professional literature they need for quality work and even to pay for education by professional seminars. About 380 employees do not have their computers at all even though they are as I said necessary for work, and about 800 more computers are so outdated that they are practically useless for their needs. I believe since yesterday the Silicon Valley was mentioned that, the prime minister is currently there, that from the Silicon Valley will come the purchase of new computers. But in the meantime, I'm just quoting the minister who made that statement yesterday. Recently, we were able to read in the media what all state-owned companies purchased enormous amounts of information equipment. Among them are those who have been doing business for years with loss, but have gone with the purchase of 300 new computers and 100 printers, while writing off computers from 2011 and 2012. It hasn't been in the media for a long time. Maybe that's the information the DORH should be dealing with, but it probably won't work because there's no information equipment to track it down. Now, I'm asking you, Mr. Chief Attorney-General, have you considered a settlement that exists as a legal possibility, to be left to you by an outdated 2012 equipment, and in return you won't be able to investigate whether anyone has received a commission to buy equipment that they obviously don't need, but I believe there's equipment there that is still.... Because of the lack of funds and staff default, as you yourself state in the report or your predecessor, the DORH only initiated judicial proceedings when justified and necessary, or when you were sure of the result. As a result, much greater damage occurred as a result of the iniquities or inequitable actions. I'll give you an example. On March 20th of this year, I mentioned the Kopa beach affair. Then it is, it is, it is a case of decommissioning the Sisak-Carlovac track. Because of an untimely act, the bridge at Petrinja, which weighs about 50 t. Interestingly, disappeared overnight. It was at night. He was gone in the morning. It's not exactly a simple operation, but what children know is 50 t. It's done, frankly, really irreparable damage. Although this is not the subject of this report, I am interested in the case, given that HZ has denied the press information with an explanation that the DORH is investigating. If the DORH has been investigating, it is precisely proof that an untimely response has allowed the damage to increase dramatically. And the question is, how can you then, given this whole subinvestment, how does that famous sentence work, let the institutions do their job? I'm afraid it's impossible. But there may be a solution on page 23 of this Report, somewhere before that it states that the total costs for the operation of the General State Attorney's Office are about 300 million kuna, and right on page 23, it says that the value is frozen and taken away from the property benefits of around 211 million kuna. This is, if you succeed with the recently mentioned 2012 computer deal and get a little more involved, although I have no doubt that your staff really are engaged you might be able to draw this difference back, so you become an example of good market business, i.e. enable yourself to self-financing. Otherwise, I'm afraid that one of those witches in that group of $8.4 million that you owe could run a pre-emptive deal against the DORH. I don't know if that's possible, but we live where we live, so nothing would surprise me. Interestingly, your findings on page 53, though, I repeat again your predecessor on page 53 of organized crime, that is, reporting against this crime. You are showing suspicion of less success in the discovery, of course this applies not only to the DORH but also to everyone else in the system, but also to the problems arising from the amendment of the Penal Code. You are this problem on several occasions instructions in this report, but in the section of work in office cases you have generally listed one contradiction or perhaps not, but you have spoken little in the opening statement about it. You state that the fifth amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act have narrowed down powers and given significant powers to judges of investigation. I'd like to ask when there's a chance that you can explain where the law error was actually made, which is what we should actually change as a Parliament, or are you in contact with the ministry resolutely to run the changes. Because if it creates so many problems, then it's time to change something. Now I have one more question. I would like to ask whether the granting of State resources by order or with the approval of a private minister in order to make it possible for him to be a competition to a state-owned enterprise, i.e. to take over, under suspicious circumstances, the business of a state-owned undertaking, whether this would be treated as a category of criminal offences against official duty, a criminal offence against the economy or a corruption offence. I believe most of you know what I'm talking about, given that, in time, a state-owned company has leased a private company so that it can register significant assets to be competitive with that same company and destroy it systematically. Since the obvious lack of finance is not strange to reach for extrajudicial settlements as a way of reducing costs. In your explanation, you state what the goal is, but I am interested in the case of the bankruptcy director of the hospital, Dr Ivo Perisic, in Sisak. There's been a settlement, even though the state isn't a defendant. The public, the whole town of Sisak especially at these events that are happening down there, is interested in what is the deal. It means both sides are giving something. What could the former director of the hospital have already given to the State's Attorney's office and go through with such a ridiculous punishment, because it's a really funny punishment. Since I'm coming from Sisak, I'm also interested in the reports filed by the DORH in a few years in a row, for which even most of them didn't deserve an answer. In connection with illegal INA activities, the confidence of most INA workers has led to the current situation. I recall that they all warn that the level of executive directors is the one that made the most of the problems, and these executive directors did not have work permits under the Foreign Law. And in the end a few days ago, we had the opportunity to listen to the Prime Minister here in the Parliament when he was telling that his favorite thesis that this government had imposed criminal provisions for non-payment of salaries to workers. In his report, p. In 36 and 37, you state exactly that, 133 applications were filed, 115 rejected. According to paragraph 3, I am now quoting, "there is no criminal offence from the non-payment of salaries when there has been a default due to the inability to dispose of financial resources etc., etc.". So now I'm asking you if you'll comply with Article 236. The Penal Code is to be initiated under official duty against the Prime Minister because it says that anyone with the aim of obtaining an illegal property benefit, brings some false display or concealment of the facts in error or keeping it in error and thus leads him to do or do something to harm his or her own property, or not to commit prisons from 6 months to 5 years. So I ask the question whether you will act in accordance with Article 236 or at least warn the Prime Minister not to use misinformation, or whether or not to deceive the public, is not a crime of default. It says so well here, but the prime minister almost daily uses that thesis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86960	Thank you too, dear colleague. We have a few replicas. Dear Representative Dujomir Marasovic, the first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86961	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, colleague Novak. Come on, let's contribute to our discussion of DORH's material position. I'm a tough opposition, for you, and I don't know when you're an opposition, when you're not, I wouldn't exactly put complete responsibility on the government. It's not good for the government because the DORH doesn't give enough money for the needs that are evident. Well, we're in the House responsible for that. Neither we can escape responsibility nor should we accuse the government of it. Let's get some provisions in the next budget and solve the problem. But we also have these subconscious brakes. I accept your suggestion, which is why I've come forward, you've kind of taken it away from me in advance, you've taken away my main blade of my replica, what's been brought in court that's illegally acquired for sale, that's what the DORH first settles, and then the rest of it is a charity charity or state. We need to adopt such an attitude, such a law, such a provision. Let's go, most of the SDP and the others suggest it, we'll support it, we've solved the problem. Without any hesitation from anyone why it's like that. For the judgment is not done, neither judge the DORH, but the judgment shall be done. And we solved the problem. And otherwise life is how much more complicated there is than a lot of what you said, I'm not getting into it right now. If we're going to widely interpret the role of DORH and USKOK and bribes, we should shut down all doctors because they're walking through conventions. Is that a bribe? And here's some state's attorney telling me is that a bribe? Well, it's more than bribery, because companies send doctors to congresses to represent their medications, so let's be open. And DORH can't, now who's gonna find a sponsor to send a young lawyer from DORH, so he's got to pay for it from the state budget. But now you can't even shut down doctors because you have to go to conventions because the whole world is going to conventions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86962	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86963	Thank you very much. I'm sorry if he got the wrong impression that I only accused the government. I have always spoken ruling, but surely this House bears a part of the guilt because this House ultimately votes and rules and brings budgets to the government's proposal but the Parliament, in the House, raises hands for it. As far as the funding itself is concerned, I don't know if it's really realistic but as an idea why not. Let's look at the countries in the environment as far as I know they're also sitting on those exact funds seized and frozen assets. You asked a question from your branch, from your profession as doctors go to seminars, so imagine, say, the local self-government unit sends or someone who's restricted to something sends to a seminar, say, donates funds for the DORH seminar. That's all we'd be missing in that story. Right, we have to, the Parliament is that or the Government is proposing in this case rebalancing and on this basis I hope and ultimately Mr. Chief State Attorney himself was talking about that hope in the rebalancing will be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86964	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86965	Thank you very much. You spoke of a colleague, Novak, to tell the expenditure of allegedly old IT devices as well as the purchase of new ones. I was going to say so persistent or valuable, so in this year's 2014 budget, so in 2013, I counted the items of all ministries, agencies, government offices, state-owned companies and found that the amount for the purchase of new IT equipment for this year was more than 700 million kuna. So the amount of 700 million kuna. So now the Silicon Valley or the hills are going to be settled there, it's a good bite for those who are therefore very advanced in that segment and can get into that business, and it's obviously in the budget and money for that. Not to mention almost 2,000 new cars, 30 ECMO machines, etc. You were also talking about a private company that has put the interests of a state-owned company at risk, and the state is helping a private company get away from its own company. Well, you should have named him, too, because it's not a secret and the people don't need to think about who this company is, although I personally know, so it's a good thing you're going to say it yourself, but it might be worth establishing good co-operation between the Romanian and Croatian USKOK and the DORH, to see how the main negotiator and buyer HZ Cargo ended up in a Romanian prison with all the charges that are and are relevant in Romania. Perhaps the negotiator and negotiators who negotiated with him would also have certain things in those negotiations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86966	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica by the esteemed representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86967	Thank you. You started getting information equipment and so will I. This is definitely proof that there is, let's say the maternal attitude towards the institutions that expect results, to solve the malts not all the problems in this country at least from the sphere of crime. Why is it so, I don't know maybe in reality it'll be silicone hills or valleys, I don't know what, maybe it'll really solve that problem, but I'm afraid it's just irony and it'll stay at that level. As far as the company is concerned, I will repeat what I said earlier, I wonder if giving state resources which, because the state-owned enterprise, either by order or with the approval of a private minister, would make it possible for it to be a competition for the state-owned enterprise, i.e. under suspicious circumstances, to take over the business of this state-run enterprise something that belongs to the category of criminal activity against official duty, criminal acts against the economy or corruption crime. What I've alluded to is the company Adria transport that's registered with the means that HZ passenger transport contracted two locomotives, I think it's two of them with the right to expand if I'm not wrong at ten, and that's going to make transportation on HZ rails. In order to register the company at all, they needed funds. The funds are being won, the interesting assembly of this society is one man, a minister, and it couldn't have gone without him knowing about it. And now we'll have a situation by the end of the year that cargo will probably go bankrupt, and on the other hand, we've made it possible for someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86968	Thank you. Thank you very much. New Replicated Representative Tomislav Zhagar. ... You can't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You don't have a business opportunity right now. Excuse me, my colleague, Agent Cain... Comrade Cain, do you want a special status in the Parliament, do you want a special status in the Parliament? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Don't be imaginative. Thank you very much. Here's your colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86969	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Novak, you have opened a very important topic in your debate, in my opinion perhaps the most important of these. When it comes to this report and all those statistical indicators that we don't really have the right answer for, and that's what the state's attorney has pointed out here, and the report says that we can't really pull any correlations, which is why there's been a drop in the number of applications specifically in some segments, and also because different species can't possibly compare. You're a little ironic and trivial about it, of course you're right. And I'd just like to tell you that every system and computer communication infrastructure has been built for years. Today we can't talk about informing a system without computer networks. What's in this, of course you've put an emphasis here on the missing computer number. Of course that's devastating, but it's a minor problem, more in the report scares me by what 28 locations are not connected to secure Internet access, so with a fast net network. And that approach that is controlled and secure, because it is extremely important because of the integration of different public institutions. So it would probably be easier for us if the justice system, the state's attorney's office, had the tax administration connected to each other with a secure approach that would then be very easy to provide information about all those, and related to applications submitted to the state's attorney's office. In that sense, I think this topic is important, but of course you're doing it in a trivial way, when we talk about the age of the computer, don't forget that today the computer can really be two years old for some purposes, that's really true. Information technology is rapidly developing, of course it is the responsibility of all those who are getting machines to think about what they will use them for in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86970	Thank you, too. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86971	Well, I'll start at the end. Believe me, I know what I'm talking about. You don't have computers in this building. You have computers like that. And therefore, I'm sure that's not the point. And I'm afraid there are some of them that are still under plastic. The one in 2012 because nobody's just using them. You mentioned my ironic or whatever you call a trivial debate. Well, look at the MPs who spoke to the attorney general before me, using different expressions to point to the seriousness of the situation. And now we find, it is an institution that is expected to be very much given the problems facing Croatia, and now we find that it is not so chaotic, that it is not, I don't know which expressions are being used, but the fact is that it is. We can lie to ourselves, but the fact is that's the case. You mentioned spaces that are not able to inform them in a secure way. Here I'm going to give you a good proposal, the Agency for the Regulatory of the Railway Market has been abolished not for long, attached to HACOM, space in Jurisic, I believe that this space would satisfy what you were talking about. I don't think that agency is necessary, that they have room on the railways because they're tied to the railroad, but... the station far away, but those mortals who work there, they're fine even though they don't have a way to get there, but the agency needs space on Jurisic's street. You can imagine how necessary they are. And what I didn't mention, or I just... mentioned the settlements. Keep in mind that these settlements have created a very negative picture of the work of the State's Attorney's Office because it turns out that some of the settlements are questionable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86972	Thank you very much. Thank you too, colleague. The SDP Club of Croatia is next in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86973	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. The State's Attorney's Office's 2013 report contains data on the state and movement of crime, on actions taken to protect the real estate interests of the Republic of Croatia, on the work of the State's attorneys and on the material and humane state of the Republic of Croatia. We believe that the report has provided an expert and thorough demonstration of the work of the State's Attorney, State's Attorney and their deputies to prosecute the perpetrators of criminal offences and protect the property of the Republic of Croatia. New legal solutions have sought significant changes in the way the State's Attorney's Office works. The SDP Club considers that the State's Attorney General has responded as a whole to the tasks set up and maintained the current awareness and success. Thus, in addition to focusing on the prosecution of perpetrators of criminal offences and the protection of the property interests of the Republic of Croatia, new legal solutions and the work of the State's Attorney's Office have led to a reduction in the number of cases in court. What marked this period was the decline of criminal charges filed compared to 2012. Since the drop in criminal charges filed has been steadily dropping back for several years, it is certainly necessary to analyse such a movement. If we could say in one sense that this is a fall in crime, then there would be no reason for specific analyses, but only for satisfaction, but the reasons certainly do not go towards a simple assessment that it is a fall in crime, especially in light of the data that out of the total of 71 thousand 278 criminal charges are a greater number of criminal charges against unknown perpetrators, and this certainly indicates, as we have seen in the report, a lower disclosure, so we believe that the announcement of an analysis through the co-operation of the county's state attorneys and police indicates a good detection which will contribute naturally and previously discovered. But not just that. We believe that in relation to the detection of criminal offences, we cannot detect the problem only to the police but also to other state bodies such as the tax administration. I will remind you that, and not only the state bodies, but also the additional involvement of the state's attorneys, I can mention very bombically in the media the accompanying resolutions of the then directors of tax administrations. When we compare this to the number of resolved criminal charges from the trading title of influence that are extremely small, the question arises, and there is no need for police to detect the perpetrator of the crime of trade influence, do we also have a large enough pool to end, especially corruption and especially corruption at local level? If a number of criminal charges are compared according to individual state attorneys' decisions, it is evident that old cases have been resolved and as we have heard, the urgency is within a two-month inflow. We believe that there is still a need to pay particular attention to monitoring in the resolution of older applications. Of course, not all applications can be a solution, but older applications should not be in drawers, it would be good in future reports to provide information on the number of older applications per individual state attorney's office. In the case of negligence and consequently in the personal record of lawyers or deputies for assessment or serious consequences such as the launch of a tight procedure or resolution, constant concern and supervision of the resolution of older applications as well as the structure of older pending reports show that the fight against crime, and in particular corruption is not reserved only for high spheres and that zero tolerance towards corruption at local level is equal to priority and should be equal to priority, and permanent supervision is certainly important for maintaining quality of work and awareness. In order to create conditions for economic recovery, it is necessary, in particular, to prevent or process abuses at regional and local level. Prevention should certainly be in active access to police and other bodies, but the procession is certainly in the domain of state attorneys, so I will mention again a small number of processing and application related to the criminal offence of the trade in influence. The success of the Office's work on the prevention of corruption of organised crime has been unquestioned in favour of certainly 95.5% of the judges' rulings. What certainly stings your eyes, which, apart from complaints, of course, the office can't influence, are decisions in punishment. Of all the jail sentences, 24% were convicted, and even 70% were convicted. In the light of, of course, any flat-rate assessment or any intention to touch in the independence of the judiciary, how it is possible to find such easy circumstances that, in the case of corrupt offences, in addition to all declarations and implementation of the strategy and action plans to combat this evil, lead to 70% of the sentence imposed. Is there any dilemma that, with all strategies and action plans as preventive mechanisms, that adequate punishment and spotting of property benefit is the only safe way to combat this evil for society. One sentence in the frozen and confiscated assets of previous colleagues who have referred to 200 million frozen and seized assets and the possibility of funding the State's attorneyship from that pool of money should point out that what we do not see in the report, and probably the State's attorney, and there is no such information, is that it is only frozen property, so the property on which the paws were placed is not available and that the seized property from the data itself does not mean that it is indeed taken away because it does not know how many judicial decisions are made by means of legal decisions the court will indeed have a certain amount of funds and sit in the state budget. When we observe the work of the State Attorney's Office as a whole then always somehow in the shadow remains a representation in the protection of the property interests of the Republic of Croatia. We feel it is necessary to point out that the State Attorney's Office received in litigation in front of municipal courts worth around 820 million kuna, or 80 percent of disputes, which is certainly a high percentage. In the area of civil law, by applying alternative civil disputes resolution, and by allowing the Law on a litigation procedure, courts were further disbursed as in the area of criminal law through opportunity, criminal order, institute of insignificant crime, etc. Finally, the SDP club will support this report by persuasing the State's Attorney's Office's proposal to make possible improvements in work in certain areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86974	Thank you, too, dear colleague. It is up to the club of representatives of the independent list, respected counterparts Damir Kain and Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86975	Your Honor, Mr. President, Chief Attorney of State. Allow me first to express my deepest condolences to the Lucian Delbian family. Our fellow MP, the first Istrian mayor of Il nostro incontre, left istrian to live for his Pula and Istria. Sleep tight, Chano. There's only that much. I agree with the attorney general that working in the DORH is one of the most ungrateful jobs in the Republic of Croatia. I've carefully read this report, and it can't be said clearly that the DORH isn't working, but I have the impression that it's working again on the surface, not sometimes important. I know in DORH for 1672 people, 616 we have state attorney deputies, 169 advisors, 35 trainees, 852 other employees. I can see that under quotes I can't say that you love, love women, prefer women 66% or 2/3 are women in DORH. In Zagreb, as many as 82% of DORH employees are women. I see your success on page 21 89% of the 22305 of the first-degree verdicts in the 19850s is adjudicating. Once, well maybe you shouldn't quote Sanader here, so they're not even successful in North Korea, but I only mention it because I would say that the criteria for everyone in this country are not the same. And why am I saying that? Here's to say, because Fimi Media is a dear mother in front of a small Istrian Fimi Media who is five times more subtle, longer, more morbid, more ruthless than the great Fimi Media. I wish everyone the best, I don't want to hurt anyone, but I want the city of Pula to provide me with answers once how much money they loaned to some presses in Istria, how many companies owned by the city of Pula have loaned as much money to those presses, as in the period from the seventh to the fourteenth city of Pula, those companies ordered paid ads and that I don't list everything else that I couldn't possibly get an answer for years. And you know what I want, that their primarily paid media voice of Istria, the Regional Express, the TV new one Pulska not that national simply treats everything equally. If the government doesn't have control, then it's all powerlessness and thieving, and the role of the media is surveillance, not pulling anyone in. Local media authorities in Istria single out at least 1% of their budget money, it's cca 15 million kuna at the annual level. Last year, only the County of Istria 3.4 million kuna. For what? In order to rule out one to please themselves and let them pay for it, there is no problem, but let them pay for it with their money, not with money from the citizens of Istria. 15 million kuna with no money from utility companies, just for the media. In 10 years it's probably over maybe 150 million kunas and then I say that J Fimi Media dear mother of what's going on down there. I can understand what is the scope of the state's attorney's work, and I'll always say that it's better to have a thousand guilty at large than an innocent in prison or a detention against those who say that justice should be done even if the world fails. Justice, yes, but I claim that the worst justice in this country is selective justice. And there's too much selective justice in this country. You mention on page 65 the financing of political activities and promotions and that 2013 increased the number of these cases to 2883. Of these 2721 are handed over to the court of law, there are over 900 independent council members who have not submitted their annual report in time and have been fined up to 60 thousand kuna and have received perhaps 10 or 12 thousand kuna. Well, then, it's a great honor to have our misdemeanor courts. But those who spend 15 million kunas are then protected. And who's protecting them? The DORH protects them. You also give legal opinions in the DORH on agricultural land, the Law on Forests, the Law on Hunting, dwellings on which there is a household law and sometimes it is against sound logic, so I will say the civil interest myself. First of all because of my people in Buzet, all the inhabitants of Buzestin. First of all, I have to look back on this Hunting Act. We're not a normal country. A savage is tolerated, wild boars are destroyed all summer, if someone kills his own man, he takes away his hunting, his rifle, punishes a man with 15 thousand kunas instead of rewarding him. But I'm afraid that peasants like the time of Mathi Gubca will have to start defending themselves because otherwise they won't have anything to live on. Leave the people in that part alone. We have, however, more non-majority than these wild beasts which, I will say in writing with the DORH devour the entire municipality of Istria. And it's perfectly normal for individuals to buy one, two, three, five acres, 15 hectares and more agricultural land, all of which are beautifully urbanized, and according to these detailed plans in the cost of the municipalities themselves, to the smallest detail, which is then the price of 50, 100, 150, 200 and more euros. But where's the bigger problem, if you want to build something, a gas station, say in Brtonigla, or I don't know a hotel or a house, then you can only be on these people's plots. And then the DORH calls me, I've never reported anyone in my life and tells me so it was a public competition. Yes, there was a public tender for one hectare of 14 thousand 200 kuna and that is the starting price, offered 14300 kuna, or for 5 thousand squares 5625 kuna is offered 5700 kuna, etc. And I'm asking myself how it's possible that in this country especially at local level, this national one somehow got rid of, here's 50 people down here weigh over a million or 2 million euros that they didn't have anything there for 2,000 years and acting as a public function where wages are incomparably less than Mr. State's Attorney, yours or my own suddenly weighs more than a million or 2 million euros. And we keep our mouths shut. But why am I saying that? We had in force a new Agricultural Land Act that defends the sale of state agricultural land but a year after the law was in force, individuals are registering with the consent of the DORH to dozens, hundreds of hectares. Or we have a salary situation of 140,000 kuna for 6.7 hectares, 2% interest, not pay 140, but just 12,000 first war, and then for that same country of age, or on that land, a loan of 350,000 euros. Well, then what's it worth? Is that worth 350,000 euros or 15,17 thousand euros? That is why I say that for the economic, social, social moment of Croatia with the current or what I know of the former authorities however, it is equally co-responsible and the DORH, the media etc.. We have a situation that many state attorneys while they're in office working their way out, I'm going to say they're defending a para-system so that the next day they can live off that para-system. Whether it's about capital, whether it's about utility services, whether it's about local self-government, instead of monitoring it, they're just protecting it. And why would they work, why would they resent someone, today they work for 14, 15 thousand kunas, I don't know how much, the next day as lawyers, they can make millions of kunas. I understand that, but I ask myself where the institution's credibility is because I see that institutions sometimes have brakes. You need to hire the kids. Where are you going to hire them today? State Services. Where? Best in utility companies, local self-government. You're talking about a war crime, there's been a lot of work done, which we'll see with Mirna, what we'll see with Galana, the former president of Venet, who on their quest all in 16 stories about the opportunities in Istria, Sanader returned to the Eagle Tyrol, this one still holds, the most Istrian recognition, I say hold this coat of arms of arms of the county but let him just say what was done here. What about the list, it was on the lie detector, I'd like to go to the lie detector here in Croatia, what about Maria Captain Palicion, will the city finally urbanize the country that was urbanized and deurbanized? In 2004, Israel's President Simon Peres' brother wanted to buy her country, but she didn't go, so a racquet worth 600 thousand euros should be paid. And why is Captain, the last time I said it? Her mother's end of World War II welcomed her with the rank of captain, was twice wounded, and on her doorstep the Nazis killed her father, mother, last time I said four, which brothers, which sisters don't, two brothers and three sisters. One in nine months of pregnancy. That's how it was in Istria in '43. And then he runs into, normally, Simon Perez's brother, and someone starts recalibrating her. And such examples, unfortunately, are countless. Kamenolomi, racquet, purchase of state, bargaining, urbanization, and we deal with 900 independent councilmen. What are we gonna do with this? And I repeat, dozens, hundreds of people are harder in this country, handling these jobs, dealing with the public of millions and millions of euros. The one in Balaam couldn't urbanize, so he sold for 1 euro, but soon all that was urbanized. I read in the latest bank that if a man wants to succeed in Croatia then he has to steal, but how to steal, moderately, not too much, and not too little. And as moderate as that is, I don't know, maybe 5-6 hectares of state agricultural land, maybe 2-3 apartments, maybe 100-200 or 500 thousand euros. What is that state then? And I say let's not deal with this little one, we're dealing with this other one. Drug abuse is page 39. Come on, the police really have to say after the changes that happened down there started working on Outlook, Dimension, with 400 found drugs, yesterday in Poreč found 20,000 marijuana. Drop down. For local authorities, they call these festivals an extension of the season, I call them drug festivals. Up to 3,500 children went through a convenient Polish hospital in Stinjan and nothing. Who gives these people work permits? And then when I quote some sickness on that people's "if God gives me health from Monday I'm on sick leave" then those individuals simply threaten me with criminal persecution. All in all, I'm glad we have this report, but I dare say for the end of what kind of policy such a DORH, what kind of DORH economy, I mean first of all, what a privatized, what kind of economy such media, what kind of media such local self-government is. We're all just here in a way connected to it. What do you expect? If something doesn't change, I'm afraid that's how much better it's gonna be in these places in due time. I agree, once again, what the chief state attorney said, working in the DORH is probably the most ungrateful job in the Republic of Croatia. A dear mother is making judgments in courts against these proceedings that the DORH conducts. But once again, and I've been saying it publicly, for a year now, I've been praying, even Mrs. Musa has moved somewhere, I've received an information commissioner, I've received an answer unknown, they don't have an office anymore, that she's trying to give me an answer to how much money is spent on the media in Istria. Here from yesterday on the web are all payments from the Treasury. The APIS is last year from the state I don't know how many hundreds of billions of kunas it means, but I can't get that information, and that's why I'm publicly calling the attorney general that when they're not ready to do so in Parliament's professional services, use your authority and answer me or provide me with an answer to the asked question. As for support, we will support this report and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86976	Ada Damian, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86977	Thank you. Your Honor, State's Attorney. I'd just line up with a few sentences to a speech Mr. Cain gave. It's about the situation in Istria. Unfortunately, by observing the work of the State Attorney's Office in Istria, we may be able to say that there are still untouchable in Istria because there are reports that are going towards the DORH, which are waiting in drawers but are very neatly going out on non-stop applications to the mayors, mayors or some of them, which are anonymous and unsigned. And so just one appeal to get a little bit of that application in the drawers to get a little bit activated and finally get rid of some situation in Istria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86978	Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86979	You are rightly dissatisfied, Madam Representative, and with the right, the attorney general is dissatisfied with the work of the new institutions in the Republic of Croatia, for example. By not providing this money for the warlocks. But also many institutions, many citizens, are dissatisfied with the work of the State's Attorney's Office. I will repeat once again, what authority such a DORH, what DORH such local self-government, what local self-government such media etc., etc. I agree that one state attorney cannot know what's going on somewhere on the ground, as no one in Istria can know what happened in Slavonski Brod, Vukovar or in Vukovar-Srijem County, but I agree that today is an incomparably greater crime down there than on top of the state. The state budget is $125 billion last year, the 500 budgets don't know what, 70 and some local units, 21.9 billion. By controlling the media I claim in Istria is a mountain today than it was during fascism or that war Communism, 15 million kunas go for the media and simply by providing power. When I compare it and pull the parallel with the Fimi Media, I can't believe that nothing really happens. I don't want to hurt anyone, but I want us all in this country, in one region that likes to keep pointing out that in front of others, we're simply equal and we're all treated the same way, because otherwise there's no freedom of expression or freedom of speech or freedom of the press, and trust me that what I'm saying today is shared by most journalists in the County of Istria.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86980	On behalf of the Club of Representatives Slavko Linic, Branko Vuksic and Nedzad Hodzic, colleagues Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86981	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished chief state attorney, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. How do we treat reports submitted to the Assembly? What do we evaluate technical details or essence in them? Does what is written and how is written or what has been done and how is it done? What exactly does the State's Attorney's Office report to us? About what's been arranged. But how do we know that what has been done is good when we do not know or are just guessing what has not been done? In such reports, far more intriguing is what is not written than what is written, far more interesting is what is hidden from what is revealed. After all, all the interest of our mind focuses on the next three questions I can know, what should I do, what can I hope for? What can we hope for when the state's attorney's office is in the process? What we can hope for when it comes to the State's Attorney's Office, which was ruled by absoluteist management by the unjustly long-standing Mladen Bajic, brought and taken in during the SDP governments. What can we hope for when the chief state attorney is neither a prosecutor nor a judicial authority but, politically with the prime minister, the most prominent political body, a dole master of survival. But he survived because of what he was hiding in the drawer not because of what he was discovering. He survived not because of who sued him, but because of those he didn't sue. These are the tails of Bajic for years, perhaps decades, and this is Bajic's calculatorism from the highest political throne praised as a feature. The report is trying to seduce us with a bunch of data, numbers, charts, one word of statistics. In 2013, 13% less crime reports compared to 2012, and one of the SDP colleagues said very interesting. What does that mean? Nothing. Maybe less hens, maybe citizens, the competent authorities are demoted by the practice of the DORH. What criteria prove that the DORH is successful when crime and corruption seem invaluable or are reduced to a bearable measure. Then the DORH is successful, and crime is bearable when we get it far enough away from the highest social values and fundamental human rights, rights to life, freedom, education, work, fair pay, protection of property. In order to properly assess the work of the DORH, it is important to know whether he dealt with the problems most burdensome to society. According to the crash report, it's a crime, but the work for the general good is on the rise. Does this mean that we have become a country with less crime and corruption that is still the most sustainable and tough economic activity. And they're all part of the so-called. small people with small criminal crafts to the pillars of a society of clerks, managers, tycoon and politicians of all levels except those of the representatives who do not perform any other duty other than the representative. It is less than a third of the application against legal persons and less convicted legal persons. Is that what we can be happy about? Only suckers can be satisfied. So long as we don't know what's going on and who's hiding behind this data, there can be less. Who were investigated, processed, convicted and released? Is there among all these crimes and all that crime among all those criminals and criminals those who steal the most and who are most perfiduous and most playful with power whether the HDZ or SDP rule. So long as we don't know the answer to that simple question the DORH reports may be throwing dust into your eyes. Is there a criminal top 10 in this report? Where is HAC according to which Fimi Media is a kindergarten. Where are those who have blacked out billions on twice the cost of road construction? Is this report covering one of the most escalating examples of the destruction of the general good in order to make a bizarre personal gain by fraud, deception, perfidial mob transactions? I'm talking about the Kamensky case. Whether protagonists, non-executors of the already oscule bosses are covered by this report or not because on these strong ones, what irony would the pillars of the company of Mr. Bajic and Cvitan break their teeth or, as President Josipovic said, would once end up in a pot, cooked. And they wouldn't be too early in a pot. Is the report covering HZ Cargo? Is it covered by the waste mob? Is the report covering at least one of those 200 suspicious accounts related to Hypo Bank, in which Mladen Bajic spoke when he needed it. Whether the Daimler Report or perhaps the report covers idea makers, and then the profiteers of the grain heist known as Đakovština. Are the reports of Nina Pavić and Ivica Todorovic's research connections in case of purchase of a worthless M start company for nearly 44 million kuna? Is it being investigated what's behind it? Or the only echo of this issue will be my media disintegration in the EPH editions. Probably the last one. Did the report cover the secret accounts in Austria's Villach? Is this report covering at least one of those phantom 200 criminal charges against Mladen Bandic, Milan Bandic? The investigation is if I am not mistakenly announced before the previous presidential elections or press charges or apologize to Mr Milan Bandic. You have no right to keep someone under suspicion for almost a decade and do nothing. The public doesn't deserve it, Milan Bandic doesn't deserve it. It's all like a racket to me, and that racket is the most dangerous thing to do when it's from the top of the line or it's being protected for something. Although it is not the subject of this report should mention a loud announcement by Mr. Cwitan's new state attorney that he will prosecute corruption and crime directed by local sheriffs. So far, it's either a deadlock or capitalists, mayors and mayors, and red tape to local self-government units being wronged because there is no crime. How much this report covers public companies that are today at the hands of the parties and social institutions for the love of relatives and comrades, political powers. Or the DORH tries to clean fish from its tail, so that political and tycoon living heads never come. It all seems to me that with all available smurfs, you're shutting down the hen while the house is on fire. Your job is the former and current state attorney to prove crime, not to give thieves peace, that everyone who has wrongly acquired their property can't close their eyes, and they seem to be sleeping through a deep sleep. If there is a trial against them, if they end up before a judge, and if the punishment threatens them, they will be settled, they will agree on punishment. With who? With DORH. They will impose a fine because we are allowed to trade justice by much more vague criteria than the more legally-oriented states, which is what Judge Ivan Turudic spoke of in the verdict of Damir Pahiq these days. Which, this time, I completely agree with. The trade in justice is an injustice, wherever it is happening, here, in Switzerland or in America. And that injustice seems to be under the pretext that this little injustice is revealed far greater and for society of greater injustices, great thieves. We don't get those big thieves sanctioned either. The words Damir Pahic, former director of the Sisak hospital, agreed with the DORH on the punishment for setting his son's profits of nearly 700 thousand kuna. He cheated long and thorough. And for those frauds, he got 10 months in prison, which he was replaced with the work for the common good. That the pighouse is even more than two hours' work for the common good is worth one day's jail time. We're humane and kind to thieves. And who else wouldn't steal in Croatia? Thus, former Agriculture Minister Petar Cobankovic was sentenced to several dozen hours of peeling potatoes, if any, instead of peeling behind bars. I know a woman, a housekeeper, who's not sure what she's doing because twice a 200 at a grocery store gave counterfeit kunas away 2.5 years in prison. She didn't fake it, she didn't know the money was forged. In the trials against Sanader, many thieves escaped prison because they were trading in justice, many who were to sit on the defendant's bench didn't sit down just because they didn't know what they were raising their hands for, what they were signing, and why they were faithfully serving the thief. The DORH is not required to account for settlements, not even to the Parliament or especially to the Parliament. So the DORH can make a deal with high-ranking thieves as well as do. And what kind of message does it send to the public? The thief is still worth it, all you have to do is find Pedro and point his finger at him. The report said there were 425 rulings under the agreement in 2013 which is less than 3% of the total convictions. But, of course, the key question that those judgments were, to whom they were granted, to whom they were traded and why they were even traded. Better to trade more skilled lawyers and earn successful trades for their clients criminals a great deal of money. It is these trade agreements that confirm that practice determines the right rather than the right to determine the practice. In more legally regulated states, in settlements with the prosecutor, with defence, with the defendant actively and decisively participating is the court which ultimately determines the amount of the sentence. In the already mentioned process against Pahic, the DORH had previously agreed with Pajic. What's he gonna complain about? On your settlement. That is why Judge Turudic rightly raised his voice. The law on criminal proceedings should be amended urgently in that segment. Although the DORH 2013 report signed Mladen Bajic, should we even discuss it with Mr Dinko Cvitan in the Assembly unanimously elected chief state attorney? It should be because Mr Cvitan said that DORH's policy would be a policy of continuity. Is it really the continuity of inaction and action when all the dangers of a shift are removed? Continuity in hunting for smaller living political fish and once-in-a-lifetime powers that have been written off before they have escaped or been removed from duty. Continuity in closing eyes in front of the most severe forms of natural crime, continuity in making alliances with still in Croatia untouchable powers, friends of ministers or state lawyers. Continuity in avoiding the most difficult cases. Is it strange to anyone that Croatia is in an unconstitutional crash when the continuity of the economic and continuity of the judicial policy, which is the largest cancer and society and state, is at work? Even though you've only been at the head of the DORH for months, I've expected more from you. Not because of cowardice, but because of work, more determined moves, the persecution of criminals. Five first months doesn't promise you, Mr. Cvitan, to be afraid of a boiling pot. True, while flirting with the public, you were fortunately not looking up to your predecessor who needed to be recognized by the most skilled hidden communicator with selected journalists. And I don't believe in that thesis that D.O.R.H. doesn't leak information, girl information because I have some information from reporters I'm communicating with, my former colleagues. You haven't or haven't yet, but we may be discussing your work in the spring with the hope that you won't be in the presidential campaign and participating in the occult no matter what you promise. Of course, the DORH isn't just the boss, even though it's the chief who determines the direction and character of the attorney. But lawyers also make up industrious lawyers, or prosecutors whose efforts are not accompanied by an adequate reward. The prosecutor, for example, is on duty at night in court, taking a taxi to the hearing and later continuing to work in his office. And he's not getting paid all overtime. At night, women work overtime, mostly women, and many of them have children and families. The work of a state's attorney is difficult, ungrateful, agonizing, and dangerous for those brave. In addition, the hard work is easily lost because of the chief’s whims. Not only is it a nice custom, but it is also a provision by the DORH Rules of Procedure to have the competent state attorney disagree with, for example, the content of the indictment, the choice of indictees, or the decision to dismiss the fines of the application expressed by binding written instructions to a lower state attorney rather than informally imposing inexplicable views, which it has. With the courage of the state's attorney-general without calculations of our own destiny, we would have a more orderly, fairer state and a society that is increasingly less and less believed in the judiciary of which the DORH is an independent part. In Croatia, economic crime is a priority because economic recovery is inseparable from legal certainty and order in the area. Priorities should be determined at the height of the damage and the importance of the endangered good. If a person is prosecuted for a crime that seems to be harmful to crime with great damage, then public doubts about the principles of police and DORH work are inevitable. No one expects the DORH to speak publicly about what a certain week or month is investigating, but it must, in principle, make it known that they respect the principles mentioned. With all the principles of the secrecy of work, it would be unusual for the people not to be laid down by the one whom the people pay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86982	Drazen Pandek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86983	Here's my thanks to the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. I'd like to refer to my colleagues' comments about what happened. deals that are therefore concluded with the defendants for individual offences. Well, I think unfortunately, the practice has shown that without it, many serious crimes could not be prosecuted or convicted, both outside and outside. And besides, we took that example from outside practice. I think even that certain new instruments in this regard should be available to law enforcement authorities. Unfortunately, it's a matter of practice. Without that, there will be no better and more successful detection, primarily detection, but also the processing of particularly criminal acts of corruption where almost the damaged party does not know that it is damaged. So when someone is corrupt by someone who corrupts them and they benefit from it and are damaged essentially by citizens, and often they themselves are not aware that they are damaged. It is an essential instrument that must remain existing and delivers results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86984	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86985	Dear fellow Pandek, settlements are a moral and legal doubt, absolutely certain. They may not be completely rejected. But that the highest government officials, those who have cried out and held moral disciplines from the constituency benches, are spared because they have spoken, have loaded their sin on someone's back, and there are such cases, and we know them well today, and that petty chickens for 200, 500 or 1000 kuna goule prison for a few years give me what justice is? What kind of justice do you believe in? How can you believe that in the case of Evey Sanader, most of those involved in serious crime, who robbed the state, who held the bag or the kickings helped to make this happen will pass without charge, will pass with parole, will pass with the peeling of potatoes. Is that a message to other government officials? You make a deal and you steal a deal. Just find yourself a little bigger thief. It's a moral dilemma. I don't agree with you that it wouldn't be discovered, it needs more work, it needs skills. I don't know what skills are needed, I didn't do this job, but I do know that there are much more successful countries in detecting crime where there's much less crime, so it's harder and it's harder to discover that they don't use these methods.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86986	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86987	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A colleague, Vuksic, mentioned local sheriffs in your debate. The sheriffs of the kind we know from those movies, they succumbed to the re-election, they were in charge of keeping the public order, of keeping the property, and it was an honorable occupation. But in that context in which the sheriffs mention you with us local self-government leaders mostly in a negative context as some wicked people, and I would like to mention here that these local officials care about this property and worry about improving the quality of life, about preschool education, about the protection from floods. Now, in this time when it was a short time ago, the system was quite the head of these local self-governments very well-behaved their duties. And these are the people who are trying. And now look at this context of creating an atmosphere according to these paroleally speaking to these sheriffs, etc., every once in a while there's a threat. The threat in the media, we look at a big voice and there's a hunt for the locals. And the threat is a crime, it's an attack on life and the body, an attack on people's health, let's say in some way and it's expected to do quality work which should be of course in accordance with the law and everything together. So then it really stands the thesis if it's artillery preparation for what counterpart Marasovic said about reforming local self-government such an approach if this preparation is the same as those doctors who go after Congress, let's also close those unit leaders of local self-government and then get rid of that local self-government. I think it requires one thought and one approach correct and objective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86988	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86989	Dear colleague Milinkovic, we agree here, I was talking about it, in fact, is not a quote, but it is a reference to the statement by Mr. Chief State Attorney, who announced that he would deal with crime in local self-government and with local sheriffs. I fully agree with you, most local self-government leaders are honest people, valuable, working and working. Where there's crime needs to be investigated. And just when I was talking about Mr Bandic in the City of Zagreb, where 10 years are announced before any elections that Mr Bandic will be arrested before any elections. Read all the newspapers that are in it, it is the pressure on Mr Bandic, it is the pressure on society and perception of society that does nothing. Maybe Mr. Bandic doesn't have any criminal charges. If there is one, why isn't it moving? And that's why I said apologize to Mr. Bandic if there's no such thing? I mean, no one here in the Parliament should talk about concrete processes, but that someone's been on the stage of shame for 10 years, and for 10 years nothing's done, I don't think the bodies of the state or the state itself are working. And then it's questionable. And I agree with you there are unacceptable threats. It's much better to have a state lawyer, maybe a state attorney surprise us with his work, much better to work in silence and do something than to make noise and become a media star, and in doing so, it's actually behind that interest or clans or political powers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86990	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86991	So colleague Vuksic, part of the replica, that is, the introduction Dr Milinkovic took from me. I think it's bad, and in my opinion it was bad by the state's attorney when he announced it, let's call it a hickey or a crime of local self-government. Every crime has a name, name and perpetrator. And when you talk about these local sheriffs or the crime in local self-government, the public that I understand is as perceptive as they all are, they're all criminals. These are people who have stood before their constituents by name and by name and as such chosen ones. And I don't know that there's an institution in the state that's more controlled by units of local self-government than state audits, by tax collectors, by six months of reports on their work as mayors, commissioners, or I don't know what we're doing and everything we do. This is exactly the way you presented it, and I don't know if there are 548 leaders of local self-government units who don't have any kind of application, if anything else for political or political reasons. And what restricts all of us in our work, believe that all the leaders of the local self-government unit, unlike five, six, seven, eight years of fat, are seriously reviewing every decision of our own, that this slows us down in this work because there is always some kind of pressure on those leaders of the local self-government units because they are all potential criminals. When this is the way around this pay phone here, it's just like perceiving it and saying it. So the name and last name have the one who did something and should be called as such. You mentioned Bandic, whether or not none of us can claim it. There's some kind of suspicion but generalizing everyone I don't think is good.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86992	Branko Vuksic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86993	Dear colleague, here I am again saying, as with my colleague Milinkovic, I agree with you, I don't need to be generalized. I have mentioned the most names and last names in this review in the House precisely because I think it should not be spoken in the Assembly of some comrades, some phenomena as they say by the 1990s, but all people have a name and a last name. Again, you can't just talk about names and last names. I repeat, the vast majority of people are doing their job fairly. However, I've heard from the state's attorney that it will be and which is good to be in control why not. The fact that you're constantly controlled is good, but it's not good that you said earlier that for political reasons, the competitor is eliminated from the political game, muddy. But then the state's attorney's office needs to process, investigate, and say sorry, there's no, it's a clean bribery. Because cases stand in drawers for years or decades, so everyone is doubted. Well, I often hear on the road when people say you're all the same, you're all the same. We're not all the same you know well, we're different in many ways, so there's a difference between local self-government officials exactly by their dedicated and honest work and by those who don't do it and who are processed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86994	On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, colleague Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86995	Thank you very much, Vice President Zgrebec, Your Honor, Attorney General Cwitan. We have a report that, in its form and content, is very similar to that of the state's attorney's office in the past few years. Five, six similar reports with slightly similar problems, with more or less success in the number of applications filed, in the number of cases prosecuted, in the number of convicted cases. But most importantly, the most important function is the function of which you act, your duty and also the task of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, which is to prosecute the perpetrators of criminal acts, protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia, property interests, and also to coordinate with all those obligations which are also the Croatian Parliament, which has also chosen you personally as the holder and chief state attorney, as well as the State's Attorney General System of the State's Attorneys of the Republic of Croatia. At first, I would say that it is a bit strange that the Government of Croatia’s view on this 2013 report is such that it is a lot of certain criticism not only about whether this is financial compliance with the national treasure but also with certain elements that are consistent with the lack of knowledge of the fundamental positive legal rules of the Republic of Croatia from some of the instructions and indications that certain concerns about the report should be brought into line with the laws that have been changed in the meantime but also with the times to which this report applies. Personally, I think that this is still a message from former chief state attorney Mr. Bajic, and I find it unfair, because if Mr. Bajic had confidence for many years to be left, then it would be fair to him personally, and according to the Croatian State's Attorney's Office, whether in such a way that the precedent is so far that we get the opinion of the government which is contrary and a lot of criticism in relation to certain elements of the report and then gives a positive opinion because in the meantime, there has been a change in the head of the state's attorney. I think it is fairer that we have accepted one of our proposals from the HDSSB Club but than some of the rumors that came from the Ministry of Justice and the Government that the mandate of the Attorney General would have been determined on time whether two terms of office were four years or one term of office for eight years, it would have been much more fair when the time period of that term expired to then elect a new chief state attorney, as well as under the Constitution and the law of the State's attorney-general, continued to act as deputy in the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. Then it's the so-called "so-called." unnecessary reckoning" should not have a place like this in the government's opinion, but if something is good then it's good, if it's wrong, there should be arguments and not a lot of criticism in the end to be accepted. This has nothing to do with you personally or with a personal former chief state attorney, but if we are to have and strive for an honest, independent and impartial system, then it should also be fair to the people who have trusted this high home in the time. I think it is fair and we need to think in the time ahead that because of certain and trends in political, but also in the European environment, not that it has something to do with the name and last name of the person but it would be fairer if someone were to expire the term of office with the power of the Constitution or the law, and not to create a family every year about your report who will say anything, who will be more cases at personal level in the specific cases that you need to work independently, then you are expected not to know what results, but rather the public, in view of the sad difficult life in Croatia, but one inscription in one medium creates a fame that someone should be convicted, put in prison for a long period of years without even starting to press charges, without starting a judicial procedure without the regular legal path called the legal state and the protection of human dignity and fundamental human rights coming to an end. There is a great danger, not only to endanger fundamental human rights but also to the independence of the judiciary as a whole, it is all a connected system. These laws, which we have passed, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia to encroach on certain parts of that law into fundamental human rights, so that the changes made by the Assembly should be a service to the citizens, but also to you to the State's attorneys of the Republic of Croatia, the USKOK, but also to the judiciary to be truly impartial, to be fair to the parties in the proceedings that are being found, whether it be the suspects, whether it be the prosecutors, whether it be the defendants. If we are going to seek the rule of law, if we are going to strive that your constitutional decision is such that you are an independent body, in 2010, we made an effort to do so, we have aligned this with Chapter 23 in the process of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU. Then we need to be very sensitive to the mechanisms and methods to which the state's attorney's office will go, but also to the public. You have full support here, because you don't have to throw flossules and say what someone's going to say more loudly here at the Assembly Speaker's. You received Parliament's support, unanimous support, and your predecessor had Parliament's support, you are expected to have independence and impartiality. So this constant repetition for years that certain information from secret investigations from proceedings that should therefore be a service to those other judicial authorities, when they have to decide on it is questionable if this particular network is created which at the same time plays both prosecutors and judges. It is a fame that we are a highly corrupt country, a country that wanders in the impasses of the EU, in the impasses of the so-called so-called. respect for human rights, and all in all, the people live badly, and poverty is becoming more and more severe. And then this very high house, Parliament but also the state's attorney's office, you're expected to have to act. You're talking about real problems within the state's attorney's office of lack of resources, lack of equipment, lack of people, lack of resources for education, and in the second time we expect you to react as soon as someone snaps a finger and especially when elections for any representative body come, then the State's Attorney's Office is covered with a lot of anonymous reports where they want to muddle a candidate who's supposed to act on a duty. Then we should give you even more money so that you can have such offices that, for each election, there will be special investigators who will read everything and everything. Because through media that are also free and certain circles, lobbies and the like, will be evolved into this electoral system, they will gain the fate of the public, and then someone will become a thief before they even got the prosecution in the first place, let alone that he came to court. So, we seek one just, one form of state's attorneyship, the USKOK that will have all its powers under the Constitution and the law that will leave you alone. And that's where I commend your position not to contact the media to some extent, only if necessary, because that's what you're expected to do. And this high home should help you, if we ask you to be effective, that your officials, officials, the furniture can do what we have assigned you to do here in the Croatian Parliament, then you should have leverage and elements that you can really do. If we're going to tell you that you have a name and a last name to pursue and judge, then it's all expensive a political game that has nothing to do with common sense. This is the home that chooses you, but for independence if it bothers, then all the jokes that come ahead of each election should be put aside because how will you judge from the great candidates for mayors, mayors, mayors, parliamentary representatives, ministers and the like when your first neighbor thinks you can fly out as soon as possible so he can sit in your seat. Because there's everyone in the local administration who knows what you've been doing, and no one knows what I'm doing, and no one dares to say by name and name that evidence to you or the bodies that do it. That there is indeed a fact that will help justice and courts to condemn persons if they are truly guilty of what they have done. It should be a system that our state's attorney's office but Parliament should act on you. That every year you do not question, when you come to the Croatian Parliament, which you will give to the media when you say that you really have problems, that it is an exchange and that it is funny to talk. And secondly, the government that is today, so the government of the SDP with its partners is giving an opinion on where in a series of elements from finance to the knowledge of the law are being given to the state's attorney, then all of this is being adopted together. There we must be honest and realistic to you and to all the people who work at the U.S.K. Attorney's Office that you have the elements that this high house has given you. As regards capacity, financial conditions in which to work and great burden with the civil administration department and with a large number of cases where the Government's critical opinion is not sufficiently explained as far as this section was concerned. We believe that we really need to think about key issues in Croatia at least trying to reach a national consensus and giving the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia USKOK elements for the prosecution of perpetrators who have therefore violated the positive legal regulations in this criminal sphere. And that this department is civilised by all professional evaluations, economic and all others that should be placed under the auspices of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In order for these procedures to be much more effective, we expect this result, and not to delay it and that we may have a delay in such cases because of your burden to the other part, so that we can try this if there is consensus and will, and the assessment that it is good to separate it from the state's attorneyship and put it under the service of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and give you the elements and levers that you can act as a law enforcement body in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in the protection of the interests of the Republic of Croatia. It's something to talk about when your annual reports are here. As for statistics and the number of cases, the number of investigative actions, the number of reports that have fallen are not surprising because there has been a change in the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Criminal Code where some of the acts that have so far been in the sphere of criminal law have gone into the sphere of criminal proceedings, and then there has been a small number of reports and cases. But I think it's much better when it's done here and here in the report of the crimes of minors, minors, some crimes that are really at their core should not fall within the sphere of criminal law, to put the element more into the rehabilitation procedure, to the procedure of purpose and opportunity, to bring them back to the right path, especially when it comes to minors, and not to put it in the sphere of criminal law where the purpose of punishment sometimes is to be completely contrary to the one who wants to be achieved and that, on the basis of some of the procedures, very often occurs... or re-enacting criminal acts which, in my opinion, may not seek to be as many applications and as many convicteds as possible, rather than being impartial, fair, independent, and that you can simply breathe with full lungs if we really want to achieve each of our role. I would not dare some of my colleagues to call that thieves, that they should be in prison, or some mayors, mayors and mayors that... that local leaders have received the trust of voters who are doing some dishonest actions. If we believe in the state that we have created, and it took many years to pass, if we believe in the independence of the body where you have received the elements to protect the interests of our country and you have received the trust and all the clubs of Parliament's representatives... for your work, then we should be fair, and not here to compete who will put any candidates by name and last name as soon as possible, in some medium, say that he is a thief, and then from the court waits for years of proceedings, so what the court says, let him say, when it all goes by, that person has already lost his credibility of humanity, personality, and about the political future, and about the other elements, he shouldn't speak. So, a lot of this report says, a little bit like previous reports, and then we need to think about trying to get that mandate in a fair way within this eight-year framework so that the situation doesn't happen if some political majority doesn't respond to certain work in the given time of one of the state's chief attorneys, that some of these flossules and some sort of pangs in the government's opinion are given as, it wasn't good, so here it is going to be like this, but it's all going to look like a political game that we don't like personally. So, you have the elements to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia, to implement the laws passed by the Parliament, and also to separate Parliament and every policy from your work so that every year your report does not come down to some political wisehouse where, with more spit on this side and that side, you will say that you are actually a lever of some political option, one or the other. It is not important, it is important that you protect your interests and it is important that our citizens have confidence in both the state's attorneyship and the USKOK and all the people who work there, as well as in the Croatian Parliament, that because of the bad climate in Croatia, we do not experience the fact that the difficult life of citizens throws light on the high state authority, on this parliament, the ministries, on your bodies, that we serve some methods that are all but protecting Croatia's interests. So, in the part where you ask for support to get funds, we support you in that because if you are expected to work effectively, then you should be able to do so, not that some other methods are used by any government, and then you come here to the Parliament and look at you as if, as now who will say, what you have done, whether it is a statistical report like this or such, but it is really important... the interest of Croatia, have we achieved the right purpose when we gave greater authority to the National Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia in 2010. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86996	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86997	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Salapic, you mentioned, among other things, your initiative, i.e. your club's initiative and your party's mandate. I support it, I think we should open up a really one debate, maybe one day comes that day, and maybe even before, we should sit down and try to agree, so we can even the standards. Because always around this new mandate, the chief state attorney and politics and the media and many others are politicizing in different ways. So, if the mandate that determines the Republic of Croatia's Constitution for electing the president of the state is two mandates and over, then perhaps according to this, we can, and for the President of the Supreme Court and the Chief State Attorney, because these are extremely responsible responsibilities, we can achieve such a kind of agreement and standards, but I'm afraid we will expect more of that, but it is certainly a commendable initiative. As far as the government's opinion is concerned, it's very unusual. In the opinion, it is said, I plead to drop it in the future because it is unnecessary, in the government's view it is ultimately said that here at the time of the debate on the report of the attorney general, the deputy, the assistant, if I recall correctly, there is no one and it is not necessary in the Government's opinion on the report by the attorney general, for example, to mention that there is more of an AUDI institution, but rather called DUDI, etc. This is unnecessary because the government must speak in its opinion on the essence of the matter, whether the State's Attorney's Office has done its job in accordance with the Constitution and the laws, and whether there have been some typeefellers and whether a figure related to the financial report, i.e. the State's Attorney's budget is correct or not, this is absolutely and less important.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86998	Josip Salapic, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u86999	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative Kosor, we agreed in this section and discussed the proposal of our law which came to the proposal to limit the mandate to two terms of office for four years or one term after eight years, which were some signals between the Ministry of Justice, just to... what happened in the spring of this year. Because if parliament gives support to someone for years, regardless of some criticism that came from our club to work as a former chief state attorney, to some failures that took place, to some of the debates that we had, it's all actually the role of Parliament, to report in... a more difficult report, even if they were critical discussions that the next report would be better. However, if there are really other mechanisms, for selecting the main state attorney if it is not the Parliament, we have a different choice when it comes to the State Judicial Council, the State Attorney's Council, and the two-thirds majority in the Assembly, in any case, if they want to give elements of some independence to any such key body, the key head of the state's independent body, then there is a way to bypass this political game around the State's Attorney's office and this pressure that is being created here. You said the president himself could be two mandates, I don't think Mr. Cvitan would be personally angry if we did so in the form of the Constitution, so when an 8-year-old comes back, the man stays in the State's Attorney's office but the work he's been doing is being followed. There is no pressure, there is no debate in the Parliament if now that it is the left government someone doesn't like it personally now we will write something in the opinion let's go outside to justify what we've done, and some future government that might be right or not about it does the opposite then it's moving the ball to the left and right and in the meantime people who don't owe it and lose confidence in the system that needs to be independent. So we have the elements that, as a two-thirds parliament, we claim this system so that it can be implemented simply more independent and fairer to our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87000	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87001	Thank you very much. You have warned your colleague Salapic of two problems that reduce the effectiveness of the work of the State's attorney, which is a lack of money and a lack of human potential and lack of human potential, but these are problems that must not be. If the state budget has money for unnecessary agencies, it has money for very often unnecessary intellectual services, it has money for unnecessary property rentals, it has to help various other countries, it has for the office of the former president that it is possible that there are no five million kunas for the work of the State Audit and five million kunas for the work of the State's Attorney's Office on which the future of Croatia depends, the most important institution of the Republic of Croatia. One who does not provide funds to these State Attorney's Office and the State Audit of 10 million kuna, and ensures these others are not only working on obstruction of the work of the State's Attorney's Office and the State's Audit, but is working on obstruction of the functioning of Croatia. And a minister who has no money for the State's Attorney's Office and for the State's Audit must resign and cannot be a finance minister. As for human potential, it doesn't make sense that the minister can be a person of 20, five, six years without any professional training, without any experience, and the deputy state's attorney's office has to be trained for 40 years to start working. The president of the management of the state's most serious company can be a person after completing a formal high education without any experience, we put it on, and here we need to find ways to shorten the procedure so they don't start much longer, so they'd start working before retirement. And another thing that worries me is that the attorney general said there's a serious economic problem that hasn't been launched yet, I'm afraid there are more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87002	Josip Salapic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87003	Thank you, Vice President. Agent Maric, I think we've been talking about the same problem for five, six years, and we haven't moved from a dead end. When we became a full member of EU Chapter 23, we remained under the supervision of the European Commission and the EU institutions, especially a major concern, and in particular the most difficult way was in this process Chapter 23 and a number of laws that we passed in this area related to the conditions of Croatia's EU accession and to common European law. We, when it comes to politics when it comes to discussing it a little bit, act as if it's usually a right where those in their workplace need to implement new laws, new values of criminal proceedings and the law on criminal proceedings, we don't give people the right to work with, expect perfection, expect express work, we expect it to be at the best will and interest of the state solved, and at the same time such failures occur to, say, reduce itself by the rebalancing of 800 million kuna budget, so it doesn't go well with each other. And in other times, you said yourself you were spending on unnecessary things or the system of the State's Attorney's Office and the U.S.K.A. and the judicial authorities will be reorganized. You saw the rebellion when the topic of state attorneys' headquarters and courts in the Republic of Croatia came that because of some local interests that I think in this system should be above the problems we're talking about because there's always money that we're asking for here, there's a need to seek consensus so many times I've repeated that we're not going to achieve anything, I think it's the most honest thing. We've been talking the same thing for five years, and when the topic comes, the debate was the headquarters of the state's attorney's offices, the courts' seats, the money in the justice system, then if someone's the mayor, or the mayor's there on the territory and then you say you won't go to my law firm to go there then. And then there are conflicts at political level, and it's about a system where there's really a lack of money, and that's where we have to act differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87004	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87005	Your Honor, Madam President. I'd like to say something in a more relaxed tone. I don't like how much you've been sort of raising to the current state attorney or attorney, and it looks like you're gonna be waiting until this state's attorney leaves office and then you're gonna say something critical. I don't like it because you're not real about it, but I still don't like the attack on former state attorney Mladen Bajic, and that makes me almost laugh, you understand. I will tell you what I think, I think that the former state attorney is the most effective civil servant in those three mandates, counting the presidents of our Croatian state who were then, counting the presidents of the government, counting the parliament and parliamentary representatives. He arrested the president of the government, arrested half the government, arrested the ministers, arrested half the state, what does the tribune do to make it even more effective? I don't get it. What was the state doing during that time? There's no one here in the House to arrest two-thirds of the Parliament if they're not there, and they're gonna get paid for something they didn't do. Let's face the reality of being on our own towards the state. He can't run the state's attorney's office, and now we're discussing what it is and how effective it was. Did he sign Mladen Bajic? Well, of course he'll sign Mladen Bajic for the year he ran. From what I understand, as far as I'm concerned, Mr. Cwitan took over when a few months ago, I don't know. He can't sign what was in another's time. So, my colleague, I think it should be realistic, leaks information from the State's Attorney's office. So normally that the girls, but the girls from VONS, Tudjman kept VONS on Pantochaka and there are 5, 6 people up there, after 5 hours in Ban Jelačić Square everything knew what was on VONS Now they won't come from the State's Attorney's Office where there are 6 hundred of them there... [[Intruder: Thank you very much, dear colleague.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87006	Reply to the replica Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87007	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Marasovic, you sometimes really get up as a stand-up comedian and say whatever you want. If you slept through last year's report that I was telling the State's Attorney General, it's already a problem for your personal presence when a representative speaks. In my debate, I did not raise Mr Cvitan, nor did I attack Mladen Bajic, but I spoke realistically about the attitude and problems within the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. ... And on the contrary, if you had accepted our law that you shouldn't, because you don't accept HDSSB laws to restrict the mandate of the state's attorney twice in four years, then we'd all be on a better path if someone didn't say something positive and there are positive examples in this report and there are negative ones then it turns out to be coming to someone. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And speaking of presence in the assembly room, let's turn around your benches forwards, backs, lefts and rights where you see that there's a full assembly in your section. I also don't think we should demean anyone's speech and listen to what the MPs say. Whenever a state's attorney comes, it's spoken this way. Let's just say you're the attorney general yourself while you'd deal with all the elements of the past, the communists, the Partisans and the like, our country would go to hell. I think we have better problems than to pursue the past in every debate and to beat stupidity without the real, true problems of the people really seeing each other, because Parliament has fallen to the mark from -2, so we have neither enough but we are not enough, because some representatives are enough for themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87008	On behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, a colleague, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87009	Dear Madam Vice President, the esteemed chief state attorney, respected colleagues and colleagues. In the interest of representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament for the State's Attorney's Report, it could be said that we have honey and milk flowing and that there is complete financial and legislative security of the Republic of Croatia when the work of this lawyer is on Wednesday. The words we heard from the state's attorney alone don't confirm that. The report does not confirm this, and for this reason I must admit that there are no more relevant reports coming into this House than the budget, except for the Supreme Court that we do not have and are still waiting, probably for some reason that we mortals, the representatives of the people, cannot understand because justice is so boring that we cannot understand this report as well as this report we have received today. So the Independent Democratic Serb Party Representatives' Club welcomes the continued practice of improving the text of the report, which data from the reporting period are improving over the reporting period, improving. We also welcome the fact that the state's attorney himself in his address was in front of committees as it was yesterday, was here today in front of MPs and MPs in front of the Parliament's plenarys bringing elements that are critical when the Wednesday is what the area of his work is. We believe that there are three areas, particularly significant, we could say areas where either the focus is lost or insufficiently developed, and I would remind my party's club of these areas. It is true that economic and economic topics are central and should be central. And it's also true that the State's Attorney's office still doesn't have all the necessary resources and the necessary appliances to do so. If that were the case, let's say that we only take one area, which is a matter of tax and tax collection, then the activity of the state's attorney's office would not be reduced to those who owe several thousand kunas, but would focus on those who owe several million kunas. And we haven't heard from the Ministry, although as far as we can hear, the IRS is actively working on matters that are in her jurisdiction and she's taking the necessary reports, but we haven't heard that there are satisfactory results in this regard, or at least the public isn't familiar with them. And this is certainly one of the important areas of the protection of the state finances, the law of the Republic of Croatia and at the same time the protection of the awakenings of the Republic of Croatia as one of the fundamental assets that the Republic of Croatia can have which has unfortunately not been particularly protected in recent years. And in this respect, of course, there are different areas of convenience, which concern privileged information, which concerns all aspects that represent sensitive, subtlely sometimes but extremely significant areas within which law violations and damage to state finances can occur, were local self-government units, whether central government. Another thing I would like to draw attention to, which, unfortunately in this House today, I have not heard there have been words, although it can be heard that there have been words at the cabinet's session, although there have been words in the European Court of Human Rights' decisions in Strasbourg, which is a question of processing crimes based on international obligations and international legislation, a trial for war crimes. For the past 2-3 years, it's as if there's been a halt in the process of war crimes. I'm not saying there's some state's attorney's policy in this regard, judging by the measures of human resources reforms taken over the past few months, Mr. State's Attorney. I have no reason to draw any kind of conclusion in this direction, but unfortunately the facts say that a growing number of people who apply to the European Court of Human Rights because in the Republic of Croatia cannot get legal satisfaction and legal protection when war crimes have been committed, especially war crimes committed against citizens of Serbian nationality or citizens of Croatian nationality in different areas, depending on which period they are talking about, depending on what parts of the Republic of Croatia. And as far as we understand it, the European Court of Human Rights, at the same time, warns the government of the fact that there has been a stalemate and if there has been a stalemate because the investigative authorities are not doing their job, Mr. State's Attorney, that is to say. And if there's been a stalemate because the deputy state attorneys are eventually not doing their job, that's what to say. But this is an area that represents the international commitment of the Republic of Croatia, and this is the area in which, on several occasions, both the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister both committed themselves to processing crimes. Unfortunately, they didn't. Neither the one in Varivoda nor Gosić, nor the individual crimes committed from Zagreb to other places about which our public has almost no awareness that they were committed, let alone in order to awaken conscience and responsibility for what has been done. Also, the problem of protecting property rights Mr. State's attorney and colleagues and colleagues. Justice Association Bjelovar submitted a request for 650 destroyed housing units, economic units in the period '91. A year. In just one night, according to the statements of people in one village, nearly 200 buildings were destroyed in one area. The state's attorney's office, or the deputy state's attorney, in its decision, says it's out of date. Well, of course it got old when it didn't want to do anything for years. These people now have no right to renovate either because the Law on Reconstruction unfortunately does not guarantee it, these people are not protected by the Law on the Protection of People due to terrorist acts and the responsibility of the state due to the acts of terrorism because it has come out of date, and it has come out of date just because it did not want to act in accordance with the law. 650 for this area alone is of course a huge number and represents an example in which the state was not prepared to protect the property of people just because they were members of another nationality, let alone that sanctioned those who did so. As regards the area of return of property, unfortunately, as well as the application of the Property Compensation Act taken into account at the time, as it stands in the title, the Yugoslav Communist Government, the restitution and return are unfortunately too slow and inadequate for people who have submitted applications or who submit applications. The same thing is true for delaying opinion on purchase contracts and placing a clause on the sale of apartments owned by those who were homeowners so they lost it in war circumstances because this opinion comes too slowly and on it is waiting very long and contracts, drafts of contracts that have simply been handed over from me incomprehensible reasons stand too long on signatures. And the third area is the area of discrimination. Since the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the membership of the European Union, the speech of discrimination and hate speech in the Republic of Croatia has grown unfortunately. We are used to no longer recognising or recognising what is in this respect a hate speech, to have the director or director get a photograph of the bullet in a German memorial institution and to be called ugly names and to be told that the rotten body is on, rotting part on the Croatian body, or on the German body. This would alert the entire German public and would certainly be spoken of by the relevant persons. When the director of Jasenovac gets it from certain figures in our political life, then there is no room for hate speech or room for threat. It just shows Mr. State's Attorney that the practice of understanding the problem of discrimination needs to be better, we need to pay more attention to it, so we'll probably have a different interpretation. The same goes for hate speech. A small number of people who report discrimination and are concerned about the small number of judgments that are going on in this regard, and we know very well from meeting people that the proportions of discrimination unfortunately are very broad, very large and numerous in this respect. Depriving members of a community the right to a letter, the stigmatization of this letter as it seems over the past year is a difficult form of discrimination and a rare hate speech. But in this respect, there is no way to interpret it as inadmissible. This has consequences for the other laws. For example, a free sense of identity for all those who need to gain that identity in socialization. There are serious consequences under the Law on Language Education and the letter of National Minorities, along with this kind of campaign, we are unfortunately not doing anything to prevent and consider it to be political accounts between governments and the opposition, not by jeopardising the fundamental values of the Constitution, not by jeopardising the possibility of law enforcement. And that's unfortunately our condition. And in this respect, we would like to see how time would be found to devote more space to practice and its interpretation and its understanding. In the end, two things. We're worried about a rise like you, Mr. State's Attorney number, an increase in the number of anonymous applications. And that's not good, and you're right when you say it's a place that rings the alarm. Because it's also an increase in the number of unknown perpetrators and I think it's extremely important that as soon as possible we have a conversation with the investigative authorities. In the end, I would also call on colleagues and fellow MPs this year to resist a party's path and demand that the budget is re-balanced by the State's Attorney's office not to have the status of an NGO, but rather one of the vital bodies. The Republic of Croatia and to provide them with the funds they need to work. [[/Intruder Zgrebec: Bring an end. Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87010	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87011	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, fellow Pupovac, you said something about war crimes and that it wasn't enough for them as if an investigation had stopped. You have cited certain examples of war crimes against the Serb population or citizens of the Republic of Croatia's Serbian nationality. You forgot to say that you are marking an exodus of Serbian nationality from Voćin, but you did not say that a great 48 civilians massacre was committed in the Voćinium, that in Chetekovac, Choilug and Balinci, a massacre was also committed for which three in absentia was punished, up to 60 were forgiven or absolved for their inaccessibility or who knows what reasons were not processed. You're celebrating an exodus from Vocino of such men. Speaking of hate speech and your apps, we can say that Serbian news is one of those that keeps spreading hate speech. So in a number, they drew the late President Tudjman with horns and Minister Šushko. In the second issue, they put the great title of the disabled Homeland War as a brothel of travelers, and in the third you called clerofashism in the Croatian Catholic Church. Who spreads hate speech and who classifies war crimes if it isn't you?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87012	Milorad Pupovac, reply to the replica. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87013	... earning a man's attention to what you say because you don't give in to what a man does and because you belong among those who don't allow all crimes to be seen. [[Specially enabled.]] If the public were to talk about what happened to the citizens of Serbian nationality, I wouldn't have to talk. I'd like to talk to you about what happened in Voćin, in Skabrnj, in all other places. But this is how it was for me to talk about what no one else is talking about. And that I have the same sense of responsibility morally, the same feeling of compassion for the victims of any nationality that I've said here many times. But if you want to continue the humiliation and ask for it to be said every time and possibly kneel before you to say it, it is. I can and I can do that if they're victims because they're just as mine as they are the ones I'm talking about because unlike you, I wore a peace flag and fought for peace and I carry it today, and for you, I'm not sure if you stopped wearing the flag of war or if you're still wearing it today. ... Mr. Representative? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. Representative. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87014	Please, peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87015	Let me finish. If you want to shut me up, you can do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87016	Thank you very much. Time's up. Time's up, bud buddy. He didn't say he was wearing, no one here mentioned the Croatian flag, colleague Shuker. ... No one spoke of the Croatian flag. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dinko Buric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87017	Dear fellow Pupovac, speaking of hate speeches as about those who are not and should not be present in our daily life, we can all agree with you, but when we talk about hate speech reactions, then we should have the same standards and I could agree with some of your findings that you, but others who should have talked about it, also reacted to the Patriarch's speech... in Pakrac, and I don't remember you being so bitter or those who should also react to the classical hate speech which is a patriarch... in the middle of Croatia in Pacrac which was so hard to claim in the Homeland War in the Greater Serbian Aggression and in the declaration of the Homeland War said that Croatia was a victim of Greater Serb aggression, then you could be told that you have the right to ask that others also oppose hate speech. And as long as we do not have equal standards according to what comes from the ranks of the Serb population, so long as any of these remarks are inappropriate, and when I say, the least I can say is inappropriate. And my colleague Djakic said well and mentioned Serbian news, which I spoke about two years ago while HDZ was in power and you said well, Serbian news is a broader hate speech, and I ask who paid them at the time, and now. And the HDZ government and the SDP. That's to be banned. A hate speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87018	Thank you very much. Replication response, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87019	First of all, as far as the patriarch's words go, I suppose, new... You should have mentioned what part of his speech was that of hate speech. Do you speak of Jasenovac, do you speak of those killed in II. World War II, do you speak of the victims during this war? If you want to share it with me, say it and together we'll find ways to speak against hate speech, no matter who it's about. And it won't be hard for me to do that when it comes to the patriarch or anyone else. And I won't remind you of the need to do the same thing to those who speak the language... and speak. Maybe someone doesn't like this word, maybe they think it should be banned, but I keep my right to freedom of speech and this House lets me do it. When it comes to news, the news does not write as they write because they are Serbian, but because they have free journalists. Among the most important feathers of Croatian journalism. If you will view criticism and critical speech as hate, and what is hate speech will be considered patriotism or patriotism, then we will not understand each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87020	On behalf of the Club of Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HGS, a colleague of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87021	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Mr. Attorney General. I'm going back to the report that we've been discussing for the past year today and I think it's good to say once again at the beginning, not because it needs to be repeated, but because it's true, that the State's attorney is doing a hard, extremely hard and responsible job, so it was last year, so it's always and it's to that extent sensitive and complex and demanding that in principle few people are satisfied. So political parties very often because they ask why investigations are being conducted against these, and not against those, citizens because of the slowness, also because of the feeling of impotence, certainly under the influence of the media who have their own role absolutely need to support. So few who are pleased to be seen from this debate today. However, I think it is worth reminding, and it should not be forgotten, and should not be afraid to speak out loudly and to be afraid to mention that in the EU accession process in the demanding chapter, in particular chapter 23, and in some others, a significant contribution has been made by the National Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia, so there is no need to fear it. And precisely because of the roles, and precisely because of the state's attorney's achievements in this period, we were able to agree that the Republic of Croatia had not received monitoring since 1 July 2013, so after joining the EU. And that's an extremely important fact, so we've entered the really upright heads of justice as far as processing is concerned. At times today, it seems to me that it was not necessary to make such a great deal of effort that this would not happen after entering the EU because when we hear different statements and attempts of various pressures and political and judicial and any other judicial and then perhaps but I will not say that it should be regretted, however, it should be mentioned that indeed the work of the State Attorney's Office was the work of USKOK at that time, of course the work of the courts and the judiciary as a whole was one of the reasons for which we successfully opened and closed Chapter 23, entered free monitoring, and what the DORH for its achievements received many praises and recognitions from the EU but also our allies in the process. What we are discussing today, therefore, and what we should do as in the Parliament in which the budget is being adopted for the following year, but above all, we must consider this report from only one important point of view, whether the State's Attorney's Office, whether the USOKE worked in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with Croatian laws, whether it worked on the trace of that fundamental principle around which there was a consensus once upon a time that the State's Attorney's Office should work, when I say the State's Attorney's Office, of course, I always mean the USC or the State's Attorney's Office, without political pressures to investigate, without political pressures to investigate anything, therefore, according to the principle of zero tolerance for corruption of any kind, which, regardless of name or name. So it is a legal constitutional framework and, of course, it should be the subject of our debate. And anyone who has any indication, not to say proof that this is not the way it is done, of course, that it is directed to speak openly and publicly here in the Croatian Parliament, where it is ultimately elected by the attorney general. And it is our obligation for our two representatives, for example, to be qualified, professional, impartial in the State Attorney's Council, where officials of the State's Attorney's Office are also elected and that they are not and that they cannot be any kind of party like them. Of course there are new challenges in front of the State's Attorney's office. In his report or oral part, Mr. Chief Attorney also mentioned that, for example, cases that are older and up to 10 years old will have to be resolved within 6 months. What are all the challenges for that big team? I don't think anyone needs to be particularly explained. It has been pointed out that a large number of people seem to me two-thirds of the employees seem women, right, that's an excellent piece of information that says that not only did the sub-representation of the gender but that women were able to work extremely hard because it was a continuous job under constant pressure from all sides, from all levels. Therefore, it is one thing to respect and respect in particular. It's interesting what the report on the downfall of the number of reports against known and unknown perpetrators points to. I find it interesting to say that the drop in application is the largest in the city of Split 30%, then Pula 26%, so large cities. Here's the first-degree verdict, that's the data, the dry data that we could specifically argue about is that of the first-degree verdicts, it's 89% judgmental. Of course, we can draw different conclusions from that data, but it is certainly one of the fundamentals that cannot be disputed is that the defendants' proposals were raised for a reason. Here in this report you can now see for the first time one categorization or percentages and data related to work for the general good. In 2012, there were 3.1%, and in 2013. 6.4% and many today there have been discussions and controversy about the importance or inadequacy of this institute, there have been many underestimations of this institute particularly related to settlements throughout the process. I think that these institutes should really be looked at in a wide range of ways, so from some known cases, and I don't think we should talk about specific cases in any particular way, because this is neither the investigative body nor the courtroom, this is the Croatian Parliament, therefore, but from known cases which have already been convicted, which have already been given first-degree, i.e. the rightful verdicts, and clearly that this institute of settlements when one of the defendants, or one of the people who was guilty in some process, admits and suddenly opens the door wide to not only indications but also facts but also what is most important to the evidence. So it does not need to be covered, of course it should continuously indicate that this institute should be applied very, very carefully, but I repeat, it has allowed the State's Attorney's Office, i.e. BUSKOK, and I certainly do not skip here throughout the process or the police to come to some extremely important knowledge that they would probably never otherwise come to. So it was confirmed in 95.5% of the charges and that's proof that whatever anyone thought was said was responsible. As regards first-degree rulings and freezing and confiscation of property benefits, here are the data that here are saying that the same institution of confiscation and freezing but in particular the confiscation of assets is further in our legal practice. However, I remind you that we have made all these decisions in the negotiation process, that we have passed these laws in the Croatian Parliament and that we have indeed shown a great policy of determination in giving political support to the work of independent institutions such as the State's Attorney's Office and USKOK to do their job without pressure. And the greatest punishment for all those who have sinned against the Constitution and the law is because they did it for the benefit of property, when that asset is taken away from them and when it sits in their pockets. As regards corruption crimes in the report, data can be seen that an increase in the number of applications for corruption in a narrow sense is quite worrying, meaning from 291 applications in 2012 to 544 in 2013 and in corrupt cases 67 million 654 thousand and 120 kuna were taken away. Mr. Chief Attorney-General, there are many words in many debates that preceded this particular day especially on Friday when we discussed an important law that should support victims of domestic war rape, there have been a lot of words about war crimes and often in public, and here is a report by the government that warns the Office of Representatives at the European Court of Human Rights that there are now some cases related to the non-processing of war crimes. So I'm going to ask some questions especially about crimes of rape. We often hear here, for example, that Vukovar and other cities are walking people who are said to be rapists, often claimed, and on Friday in this debate, it was claimed that many women have given testimony but that nothing in the State's Attorney's Office has been done and I believe that you will inform us by the end of the debate. Because we must have all these facts in front of us, every piece of information in order to truly deal with them sovereignly and responsibly in future discussions. I will mention something else that has not been apostropheeded, and that last year, the State's Attorney's Office, according to the logic of things, has also been involved in processes, i.e. all of these processes related to the extradition of Croatian citizens on the basis of a European arrest warrant or judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the countries of the European Union, but I think there is little anyone at the time who wanted to listen to and listen to the opinion of the State's attorney in these matters and related to the application of Croatian laws. And finally, since it is always some sort of accompanying debate when we are talking about this report, but also when we talk about corruption, justice, investigations, etc., something that I just need to mention about our tasks today would immediately be related to seeking resignations and eliminating from life any, so political above all, officials, politicians who are, against whom investigations have been launched, who have passed investigative prisons or are still there, etc. We would really have to get the strength of colleagues and colleagues to talk about it maturely and soberly and possibly in such cases talk through the laws that we might have passed. So in which case the mayor, the mayor, the mayor, the commissioner, the minister, and so on should what, resign, fully withdraw, freeze the mandate. I think on the one hand, we have a big problem with the Constitution and... innocence, on the other hand, justifiable pressure from the public to do something about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And here I remind only one bizarreness that even here at the State Judicial Council and I read it from their pages is one member who is away from the duties of DSV member from 30 January 2014 until the judicial end of the criminal proceedings. So it's not resolved and it's the State Judiciary Council that decides on judges, it's not resolved, but it's here away from duty. So at the end of this debate, with the acceptance of this report, I plead that we will gain strength and courage and agree on what we are going to and how, and in what case, some official will have to step down temporarily or forever.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87022	Thank you. Replica, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87023	Dear fellow Kosor, you have said one sentence, and I quote, "As far as the judiciary is concerned, we have entered the European Union with our heads up." I wouldn't agree with that. Let's just say I don't know how you'd react to citizens you'd say that to, who can't until justice for a decade, two decades or more. The European Union has seen through our fingers and I am not a glorifier, you well know, the European criteria that Europe has shown in many other countries. Zero tolerance to corruption, you said the legal framework, and the constitutional framework is like that. Here I fully agree with you, but you have said several times in the Croatian Parliament that society is tolerance to corruption and it is tolerant and we as politicians are tolerated. This is exactly what you were saying about justifying and not having a firm attitude towards those who have grown into corruption. You said no political pressure on the judiciary. Maybe not, but the judiciary is doing a bad job on its own. What is it to do to this High House when the judiciary doesn't do its job? Let him do his job for a decade, two, three, five? Many countries have a solution to that. However, the president of the largest county court in Croatia argues that there are political pressures on the judiciary, while at the same time the same judge named Turudic, and I have already mentioned him, also actively, almost actively dealing with daily politics and trying to push politics for his interests and goals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87024	Jadranka Kosor, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87025	Thank you very much. I didn't say there was no political pressure on the judiciary, you misheard or understood me. I said that we have to do everything to reduce the influence of any policy on the judiciary, so politics doesn't even pressure the DORH to do something and not do anything. That's what I said, and of course it's in the nature of politics that he always likes to influence, many love and want and secretly try. If that's what we agreed on, it has to be a fundamental principle, then we have to stick to it. As for the raised head, yes, so we did not get the monitoring of fellow Vuksic, so remember other countries that had monitoring and major problems after entering. However, I said that today I was wondering if it was really supposed to be such an effort not to get monitoring, or maybe it would be better if we had it now. That's what I was wondering, but then we really did everything and the big deal that DORH did, that's how it was part of that mosaic to successfully open up, close chapter 23, and not get monitoring. As for the tolerance of voters against many politicians who have been prosecuted, who have been dragging tails written about for years, etc., that is correct, we have talked about this endlessly many times and now here is the procedure of the draft election law of a group of us MPs, where others suggest that those who have been convicted legally say for 6 months prison cannot be run. And some other categories of people who can't run at all, but of course it won't be accepted here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87026	Marijan Škurić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87027	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Members, you made one statement in your debate, and that is that, which I find very problematic, which is that many perpetrators walk amongst us. What you mentioned was... punishments are in Vukovar based on what has been proven to have committed crimes, primarily rapes. So I'm asked how the perpetrators can walk amongst us, feel free to walk without anyone being able to prove their guilt to him. It's really a question first of all to the State's Attorney's office that if there's no proven guilt they've been walking among us for 20 years, then I wonder where we're all citizens, where all these headquarters are attacking the boards, and I can't say and show people these are guilty, let's process them. How can we prove that we have examples that the State's Attorney's Office is capable of processing one severe sentence to the fine of 4,000 kuna that you have embezzled or miswritten travel orders where you are sure... people intensively working for months to prove it and to obstruct and punish it, and we can't prove one such thing that you said is obvious as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87028	Jadranka Kosor, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87029	Yeah, I'm extremely surprised you can't listen. So I didn't say it, it wasn't my claim that criminals, perpetrators of a rape crime who should really be sentenced to at least 40 years to walk Vukovar or elsewhere, but I said that many people talk about it, many people in the Parliament talked about it, many talk about it, talk about it, talk about it, talk about it, talk about it, talk about it, talk about it, talk about it, talk about it, talk about it, talk about it, talk about it, talk about it, talk about it, talk about it, talk about it, talk about it. If I knew a colleague about someone and it was my claim that criminals and rapists were walking and I knew someone walking in Zagreb or Vukovar or Knina, I would report it immediately. So it wasn't my claim, but I quoted some who talk about it, many who talk about it and ask the question to the attorney general whether it's true, and I'm sure he'll tell us about it by the end of the debate if there are such cases, as well as those that are also said that many have reported, and that nothing has been done in 20 years. I ask the answer to that question whether it is true or not, to be qualified in the future to discuss these problems, especially here at 18 November this year when it is again announced that some will be able to come to Vukovar and others will not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87030	And before we break, we'll hear the HDZ Club and a colleague of Vladimir Shakespeare's.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87031	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Attorney General, ladies and gentlemen. The report of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia for 2013 is one classic, correct report that describes, that is one résumé, one biography of the work and activities of the state's attorneys, chief state's attorney, USKOK, municipal and county state's attorneys for 2013. The movement and structure of the reported crime in the Republic of Croatia are presented, statistics on success, procedures, material and human rights of the State's attorney's office and the difficulties facing the State's attorney's office in particular on insufficient resources, outdated equipment, lack of personnel specialised in certain areas. In that part of the report, too, it should be welcomed that it has openly and openly opened the problems facing the State's Attorney's Office. And it should be supported by the State Attorney's Office to ensure that all others and the Parliament together and material and all other assumptions about a valid and successful, effective work of an independent and independent judicial body such as the State's Attorney's Office in the fight against crime as a body in the first order of the state, as a law enforcement body. I would draw attention to one part of this report, which concerns international legal aid and cooperation, which is relatively modestly covered by this report. In 2013, the State Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia continued with international co-operation, including through classical international legal assistance, taking over or taking over criminal persecution, applications for international assistance, so that in 2013 there were 91 concessions to the foreign state and taking over 91 cases from foreign countries in the context of these requests for international legal assistance. Under this international legal aid, the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia has concluded arrangements with the State's attorneys or prosecutors of Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, where through these arrangements it exchanges data or evidence of the perpetrators of war crimes, genocide, crimes committed under international peace and humanity law, and this is where the data are exchanged within that international co-operation. However, in the context of this international legal assistance and cooperation, we received information from the Justice Committee yesterday from the Deputy Attorney General of the State, who is very interesting, which refers to the fact that the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia received from the European Union a submission requesting that Croatia, that the State's Attorney's Office be shown at the position of the European Union, a European Union body that the Republic of Serbia, has a valid legal framework for the processing of war crimes. And the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia has informed the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration that Serbia is not satisfying this legal framework, so it draws attention to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that Serbia is in the organisation and jurisdiction of the state authorities in the war crimes proceedings, that with this law, that the Republic of Serbia has determined that its authorities are responsible for the conduct of criminal proceedings for acts committed in the area of the former SFRY regardless of the nationality of the perpetrator or the victim, and that the Republic of Serbia has extended the criminal authority, acts committed outside its area, and that is selectively so that, according to international law and under the UN Charter, it is contrary to Chapter 7. The UN Charter and that the Republic of Serbia, Article 3 of this Law, violated the UN Charter and also the UN General Declaration of the 1970s. So, the ministry, the State's Attorney's Office also warns the foreign ministry and we draw attention to the fact that the opinions given by the EU Council Presidency are not correct. Yesterday, on the Committee on Justice on the request of the President of the Committee whether the State Attorney's Office received a reply from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration to this warning, it was answered that the State's Attorney's Office had not received a reply from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration. So it is, therefore, crucial that, and this is related again to the fact that the Republic of Serbia, or its judicial authorities, have resumed despite this warning by the Ministry of Justice and that the Ministry of Justice has refused to cooperate in the procedure where the authorities of Serbia have asked for a hearing, say again, for a new investigation against Maric, against Veljko Maric again seek legal aid and seek research, research in Croatia as was the case by Vesna Bosanac, as was the case with others to bring charges, to carry out certain investigative actions. So the judicial aggression continues, which is only by other means. And now, there it was on the current watch that Prime Minister Milanovic asked Ms Vesna Skara-Ozbolt's representative, who had been troubled by the issue, also answered that Croatia would, however, when it comes to giving a decision on Serbia's admission to the EU to take care of the opening and closing of the special chapter 23. The state attorney's office of the Republic of Serbia is indeed in a delicate position, a very delicate position that warns about what the consequences of this 2003 Law of the Republic of Serbia are from the organisation of a competent state assessment where Serbia is placed as a mini Hague in relation to all other republics and areas of the former Yugoslavia, and the foreign ministry is apparently not responding that it should warn the DORH, and Serbia continues its work. We will still find ourselves in a situation of one day, any government, any Parliament, any government in Croatia, when it will have to give a final assessment of whether or not to give the green light to Serbia to join EU membership, that if this issue is not resolved, because the purpose of this whole procedure is for Serbia to withdraw its law, because, as it has been stated, it is contrary to the UN Charter of Chapter 7, that Croatia, which is not obliged not to blackmail, as Slovenia has blackmailed Croatia in time, that it will not blackmail other countries but must do so to make this one pressure and that the Croatian Parliament will also indicate that the Government must react in accordance with the guidance and warning of the EU that the DORH is likely to be sent to the EU. I therefore think that this was a particularly important and interesting issue for the Croatian public and for a very delicate role in which the National Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia has found himself working in the interests of Croatian national interests and in the interests of peace and security and cooperation in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87032	Thank you, too. Now we're gonna stop working, we're gonna continue at 15.00 hours, and we're gonna start replicating our fellow Shex exhibit.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87033	My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. We will now hear the replica of the esteemed Jadranka Kosor at Mr. Shakespeare's presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87034	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry there's no Mr. Shakespeare, so now I'm replicating for nothing because he can't hear me. He mentioned the accusations that came from Serbia, he mentioned the problem, so I think it should be reminded of the law on damage that we brought in 2011 precisely for those reasons in order to make it clear that the Republic of Croatia is absolutely inadmissible to extend jurisdiction in the territory of the Republic of Croatia by some law, as they did in the Republic of Serbia. And that law clearly said and created a legal framework. However, it is certain that, since the Republic of Serbia is now in the EU accession process, so in the process of negotiations, Croatia must take advantage of this opportunity and must not miss the chance to point out all these problems as a Member State, and while the problem of sending indictments and extending jurisdiction to the Republic of Croatia does not resolve that, of course, we do not allow Chapter 23 to be closed. Of course, taking into account the fundamental principle that every crime must be prosecuted and that the guilty must face justice but in their own country, in accordance with our obligations and to the International Criminal Court in The Hague.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87035	Thank you. On behalf of the National Minorities Club, a respected colleague, Dragan Montenegrin, signed up. He's gone, the club's losing the right to argue on this agenda point. On behalf of the DC Reformist and New Wave Club, a respected colleague, Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87036	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, we've heard a lot of comment today and your report for the past year. I'd like to point out three basics here. The first thing that absolutely stabs the eyes is what you yourself have pointed out the number of charges against the unknown perpetrator in relation to the number of charges against the known perpetrator is growing and that is what is absolutely worrying. The second thing is the rationalisation of the network of state attorneys, i.e. spatial capacity and, above all, those human capacities, i.e. human capacities. Here it is very clear, unequivocal and very seriously highlighted warning that the job has been increased when it comes to the work of the state's attorney's office, and the number of people remains the same. When you look at these empty and unfulfilled jobs and it's systemized then it's a deficit somewhere around 300 people, maybe even more. And that's what's worrying because the question is then how can it function in quality and in what criteria the state's attorney's office is expected to do, a special story is financial resources. And I don't think that's ever been so clear and directly spoken up. It's the same thing that's understood by red and to which this rebalancing home should be addressed in a way that provides additional funds especially for financial skills because it's really very strange that we expect efficiency and in functioning in the court of the state's attorney and that, for example, The state's attorney's office has nothing to pay for court-laws without which it cannot function particularly in these highly corrupt financial acts. I may say a little bit about the need just to, as far as corruption itself is concerned in this business community is concerned, we expect investments and they are not there because we are not too much in spite of these great results that the state's attorney's office showed in the past year, I deliberately say great in terms of capacity. No, we're not far from that Balkan method of giving and receiving bribes and for the smallest services and still in some way government, project fees. And he's talked about it a few times in public, and I'm a state lawyer. So I would especially stress here that corruption and other forms of crime pose a major obstacle to the private sector and have a negative impact on investment. Corruption is somewhere else or third in terms of the importance of obstacles to business. Each ten company in Croatia met with corruption in a public service. The most common among those most exposed to the bribe are officials according to all these European polls, officers of the Catastre Office, local bureaucrats, municipal, city officials. Indicators say bribery companies give an average of 8.8 times a year, on average 1 case of bribery every 6 weeks. The incidence rate of bribery is significantly higher for small companies with 10 to 49 employees than for medium and large business entities. Business entities are said to be the most common purpose of bribery is to speed up business procedures, somewhere over 42% of all cases are bribery, then to ensure more favourable treatment and end court proceedings, that's somewhere on the final scale. In the past year, about 6% of respondents gave up most of their investments because of fears of bribery. More than 8% of entrepreneurs gave up large investments due to fears of crime, fraud, physical harm, burglary and similar things. The practice of reporting corruption is almost nothing, according to the European Commission's reports. Cases of bribery and that, here, to the police or some other official institutions don't apply at all, so there's a dark number pretty big. The European Commission's main observation may, according to a report recently published, be summarised this way, all strategies and action plans made by the Government, cover a wide range of objectives, most of the measures and deadlines, the monetary ones... have not been specified precisely, and according to the available data, so I think that there is, first of all, an imbalance between the prevention and prevention measures, i.e. at the expense of prevention, is not an emphasis on prevention but on punishment. The action plans were further amended in 2013, operational measures were added, in particular with regard to the mechanism for verifying conflicts of interest and reports on the property situation of control and financing of political parties and the like. The report generally praised the work of the State's Attorney's Office, commended the work of USKOK, and precisely their proactive approach to conducting investigations into high-level corruption cases. But what's being criticised is that acts related to corruption are being mildly punished, often probationary penalties, thus gaining the impression of the perpetrator's impunity. It also stressed in the European Commission's report that although an investigation into Croatia's leadership has shown that there is a will to prosecute, the right assessment of the sustainability of this trend could only be given after a long time. When it comes to organised crime, this is where Croatia faces difficult challenges because corruption is a means of assistance, i.e. By investing in real estate, we as a transit country are particularly sensitive to this type of crime. We're set to the so-called. The Balkan axis for human trafficking as well as for smuggling of various types of banned goods, drugs, weapons and cigarettes. And it really needs to be helped in every way both by the State's Attorney's Office and the USKOK and the police to both capitulate in both human beings and financially respond to these challenges. What I would especially draw attention to are the issues of war crimes. The colleagues have already talked about it, and the state's attorney himself has indicated that the State's Attorney's Office is still working on the processing of war crimes and that it is still on the high agenda of the DORH and I believe that it will be as certain as it will be until all possible war crimes are prosecuted, and I expect that in next year's report, there will be a part of what the State's Attorney's Office has done on this issue, but also on the topic we recently had in Parliament, which is now also spoken of by Kosor, and these are women raped during the war and aggression. Now, it is also said here in a way that Croatia does not prosecute its war crimes or that it, in fact, is not even convicted of war crimes during and after voluntary... action of the Storm. That was kind of pointed out today. That thesis is repeated by the media, and in some ways I think it overshadows a serious operation of the DORH on that subject, so I would say that, I would quote James Watt who says, a lie comes to make a circle around the world before the truth ever puts on boots. So it's not true and it's absolutely working on it. In fact, it may not be known enough because of course it is not popular data, but recently it was the first judicial conviction for a war crime committed in the Storm in May of this year. An investigation has been launched against a member of the Croatian Units who, in the capacity of a witness in a court procedure under the pressure of conscience, admitted participation in the launch of one of the numerous crimes in the... pocket, and in June, an investigation was launched against a Croatian soldier for the death of 3 people of Serbian nationality during the Storm in the village So that is the answer of a colleague, Pupovac, who is now without this thesis that absolutely nothing is being done. I have recently been here in the Parliament and asked the prime minister to simply clarify the situation of co-operation with Serbia in light of and at all access to and obtaining Serbia's green light in their department of justice when it comes to their entry into the EU, and everything is related to this controversial Law on the jurisdiction of the organisation and state authorities in the war crimes proceedings. There, as counterpart Seks said, Serbia is practically acting as if it had the jurisdiction of The Hague Court and I think it is absolutely necessary to do so in a way to ask Serbia to resolve the issue of its 2003 disputed law and to in some way initiate a procedure for repealing the JNA military archive from which all these charges arise or simply to put the military archive into a succession. Only in this way will this issue be addressed, which in every way burdens relations, and puts before the National Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia almost impossible challenges. So here's the end of our club will support this report. We believe that the State Attorney's Office has made a major step in the process of all those acts that pose a serious threat to the functioning of the rule of law in Croatia, but here for next year, we expect for someone else precisely this lighting up of war crimes, the issues of raped women, as well as issues of organised crime and at all one more specific area of analysis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87037	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, a respected colleague, Marijan Skuric, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87038	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable State Attorney, colleagues and fellow MPs. In this Report of the State Attorney's Office for 2013 there are defined certain things that are defined in their work primarily through the legal basis of work, also human resources for work and material finance. The legal basis shows that changes are still necessary, but also the provision of state attorneys with the necessary equipment to work and the programmes and equipment that enables better control and management of state attorneys. The amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act... has significantly changed the powers of the state's attorney in the previous proceedings and increased the judicial oversight of the work of the State's attorney's office has become more complex and this will affect the effectiveness of the proceedings. Of course, in any case, there is a need for better cooperation between the DORH and other institutions, above all, the Tax Administration, USKOK and the Police. In these today's debates, too, it was largely crystallized that part of the active work and quality work of the State's Attorney's Office were carried out itself and that legal bases were applied to improve the human rights base for work. Thus, the report defined that during 2013, DORH was made up of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, the Office for the control of corruption and organised crime, 15 county attorneys and 33 municipal state attorneys. The number of state attorneys has also been significantly rationalised. In all state attorneys, 1672 people worked, of which 616 state lawyers and deputy state attorneys, 169 advisers, 35 trainees and of course 852 employees and other employees. The number of state lawyers remained at 2012 level, while the number of employees and advisers was slightly increased while the number of trainees was significantly reduced. What is also indicative that it was filled on December 31st was 11 seats of state lawyers and 128 seats of deputy state attorneys. It is also a significant number of unfulfilled councilors, trainees, officials primarily due to lack of funds, and in the case of special knowledge officers and less income, which makes it difficult to find candidates with an adequate level of knowledge and ability to work for places, and these experts and professional associates of specialised professions. There is little indication whether the question of working in such places is problematic or because it is shared by someone because they are too little pay or because of the experience we have to say, with a lot of work, there have been very few results. And the attitude of the CNS at this point would be that, indeed, as far as part of the human base for work is concerned, it would be full, it would satisfy the conditions of the ones that need to be met and, of course, no matter what the wages are, that we have public services that are too expensive to fill in at least at that point and give them enough pay so that they can do their job properly. It is then all related to the material-financial situation where we can determine that the plan is a financial part of 299 million kuna made in total amount of 299,311 somewhere around 600 thousand kunas... spent less than was the plan. This is commendable but at the same time not sufficient to maintain information equipment, technical devices, machines, official vehicles, etc. Insufficient resources for the intellectual services of seminars and education, the procurement of professional literature, skills, autopsy, translation if we are talking about the problems of human resources... for work and the weaker material and financial situation then we would have to find a solution quite urgently because this report for 2014 if this is the same situation in 2014 then we lost for two years that the operationality of the State's Attorney General who would have wanted to be at the highest level is questionable and the results seen in this part of the State's attorney's work on crime and the work on criminal cases seems good because the total of these items received, let's say civil administrative cases 6% less administrative and civil objects and 17% less new so-called. other items. Now is that part that these parts are really smaller or in that part are in some other measures that part is somehow manifesting. What is the opinion of me and the CNS in that section is that, unfortunately, there is a good school in Croatia, a school in which we were present for 20 years where many things were tolerated, where many things and of our parliamentary representatives were said that "who has been bailing, pitting" that they were left unpunished. And maybe that school where we had very good students at that school has now reached the level that for the same thing you got before at that school five and now for the same thing you get a unit, or you're moving towards a criminal procedure. One of the proposals of the Croatian People's Party in that part is what I said that indeed the government must find a solution for the humane basis, improving the humane basis for work and... the financial situation where we also see in the report the amount of frozen assets for the part of the confiscation of the property benefit achieved by the criminal part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when we define that almost 196 million kunas of property worth being frozen, or taken away from the asset benefit of 67 million kunas, then you might really think that the money is around us, but that these money is collapsing in a way or that it's frozen that we can't use. We only read part of it, and we know how many cars ended up in a customs depot, which, unfortunately, are rusting at us and the good, quality cars that were seized but that we couldn't sell them. Well, I think we have legal grounds in any case that we've defined to invest all the resources in the work of the state's attorney's office. It's not the view now that we can interpret that we're going to put the State's Attorney's Office on one market principle, so as much money we're going to invest in, it's going to be so effective, but we really have to look at being very efficient. The funds are there, the works are there, the money is there, it's up to us to take good care of it and use them for what we should do. Not only in that part of the property, I would especially mention where in the State's Attorney's Office it's not so explained, but let's say that these are things that concern the interest rate credit intermediaries. When you have information that there are currently 40,000 Croatian citizens in Croatia who are still or have been in charge of the lenders and who reach as much as 3 billion kunas. If they really took away all the unlawfully acquired property benefits that have been defined and done with these interest loans, I don't think there should be any more problems for the work of the State's Attorney's Office and other legal structures in the Republic of Croatia. Of course what you would also like to say in part of this report... For this year and last year, the State's Attorney's Office has primarily manifested itself towards the leaders, the man in charge. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The previous state's attorney's office was watching who he was drinking coffee with, who he was working with, who he was hanging out with, what he was doing, how his spheres were, how he was functional and many of the questions we had asked there was no answer. Now what we can say in any case in this section is that the state's attorney must be at the head of the State's Attorney's Office doing his job and it must be his priority job and we can say that, compared to before, the state's attorney absolutely deserves our commendation for his work. Also what the Croatian People's Party would say at the end we will support this report, and with the emphasis indeed that the State's Attorney's Office should only act according to all the laws that are and the laws are only there to ultimately implement them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87039	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first one checked in with the respected Mirella Holly. She's gone. She's losing her right to argue. Then, dear colleague Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87040	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. State's attorney, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Shakespeare has already spoken of our views in view of this report, I am left to supplement our presentation with several notes that seem to be important for us to perhaps, in other ways, promote the report that is ahead of us. We are also aware that Mr. Cvitan here actually defends the report of his predecessor, so that also praises and plights I want him not to take it personally, they are not addressed to his predecessor, but our understanding of the work of the state's attorneys in this particular case I will remain on some of the issues and on certain parts of the state's construction units. In fact, as in earlier years, it seems to me that again we can conclude that this report is very exhaustive, comprehensive and what can be found from its contents in some way that it is the most precise, thorough and broadly displayed action in that criminal part of the work of the State's Attorney's Office or the work on criminal matters. We are also aware that there are two other areas in which the State's Attorney's Office operates one is that civilian or civilian part. This is about opinions on purchase contracts, availability of state property, etc., but as I always say, I would sub-species the work in administrative matters. These administrative matters are probably the least attractive to the public, not likely but even certain. They are also mentioned in the State's Attorney's Office's reports in the latest kind of reference to all the responsibilities of the state's attorneys, and often the jurisdiction of the State's Attorney's Office is particularly important in view of the administrative work in our country. Moreover, since there has been a system of direct selection of executive heads in local self-government units and units of the regional self-government and, on the other hand, representative bodies from which this executive authority does not come, we have witnessed that they are very often in conflict with representative bodies with the executive heads elected in the direct elections. And many times so far, I won't look back at individual objects. There were doubts about the quality and legal work of the executive head. I often believe that requests for an investigation have also been made, even criminal and criminal charges, but here I will speak from experience, often after years of waiting, nothing has happened with those criminal charges or has been rejected after several years. In order, of course, if some of the problems rise in those local dimensions and arise with the possibility of some more serious crimes, it was shown that this was the work of the administration that was timely, treated by county state attorneys in due time, that it would probably be less damage and that we would get better results. We have been witnessing this and lately that there have been such proceedings, and as much as there have been some crime or error on the bodies of the state administration, I believe that the same responsibility is borne by the county's state's attorneys who have neither been in due time nor carried out in detail the procedure, certainly not in the manner they are doing in criminal matters. It's one of the remarks we'd put on not only this report, but usually in a way that we believe can be changed and repaired, along with all the fences that you've stated you're having problems with the personnel teaming. The other thing I would like to say is that the State's Attorney's Office must be aware not only of its professional but also of its political responsibilities, because often its activities can cause and have caused political consequences, not always as they would have been if the State's Attorney's Office hadn't acted in public and thus created some kind of opinion in public before the court proceedings were closed. We also witnessed that the previous state attorney was saying that there were problems with leaking information from the state's attorneys' bodies themselves, that he had raised no idea how many criminal charges against unknown perpetrators due to precisely the availability or leak of information in the media. However, no one from the State's Attorney's Office has ever introduced us to the final dispensation of such criminal charges and whether or not something finally happened on those criminal charges, or whether or not you have determined what it is specifically about. I am saying this because the State's Attorney's Office has often acted in a way that has been politically and now been able to suffer enormous political damage because of the proceedings before the State's Attorney's Office or the courts, but in cases represented by the State's attorney's office, that the public has acquired before the rightful verdicts its opinion, whether justified or not, cannot always be claimed, and then a huge political damage that is very difficult to correct later. And the best case I think is right in 2013, I know about all the fences you have and it's not the place to talk about individual cases. I know the law forbids you to speak and there's no need to speak in this debate on individual cases, but it should be taken as an illustration of the work of the state's attorneys. So the case we had with the application of a European arrest warrant where two county attorneys in the same thing are dealing with the opposite is the problem that has to be solved at the level of the State's Attorney's Office, a problem that can cause any political consequences and we need to be aware of that, and this is not seen in the country's sad reports in this way. And finally, what's our remark all along, here's impressed the other day in the press again by a lady who says her daughter was taken to the Ovcara site when she was 16 years old. The person who showed her to the enemy army today works in the Vukovar plumbing. So the illustration is important and it's because of that illustration I'm saying it. What has been the processing of war crimes remains as one burden that can be put on the work of the State's Attorney's Office and regardless of the fact that justice is slow, but I believe that a special effort by the State's Attorney's Office had to be done and I believe that here under Mr. Cwitan's treatment will at least speed it up to justice to catch up with all those responsible for war crimes. There was something he was saying today on one side of one of our colleagues. I will say perhaps for all victims especially for those women who have suffered severe rapes, mutilations and everything that happened during the Homeland War the State's Attorney's Office must speed up the proceedings and come to final judgments for all those who have sinned on the right and international law and, of course, the right of the Republic of Croatia. That's what I'm done with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87041	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First respected representative Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87042	Thank you very much. Comrade Mlakar, you said that you would not be individually in principle and that you would warn about a confusing situation when the same thing is being treated the other way, so I would point out that something that also confuses, and the same thing is being treated the other way, and it affects the economic activity in total in Croatia. In the same case, when there is a criminal prosecution against the management of a company which has granted loans, and there are no adequate guarantees then, in the same case, when only the other administration approves the same such loans, it gets a bonus already for the companies that are in bankruptcy and that is more than the previous one for which there is a prosecution. And that's a few million kunas. And when it comes to several billion kunas, then there is no procedure. How is it possible that the bank does not charge 2 billion kuna, for example, and the company ends up in bankruptcy or in this pre-bank deal is forgiven of the debt. How could the bank not have charged if there were adequate guarantees? It means there were no appropriate guarantees when it wasn't chargeable, but it seems to me that other criteria are always applied to the small ones, and nowhere on the large ones has the tightening of the criteria shown. The banking system has not charged 40 billion kuna, and it seems to me only that in a few smaller banks a procedure has been initiated for not paying the credit. This also has nothing to do with the main state attorney directly but with a process that lasts for years, not to mention unassembled assets and the conversion of companies where even oil findings have been sold that have not been evaluated and have not entered the underlying capital, and no one has been responsible for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87043	The line matches the esteemed Davorin Mlakar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87044	Thank you very much. My colleague Maric did not allow me time, but I used some of these figures to avoid talking about individual cases. However, I wanted to say that, in particular, the County State's Attorney's Office, so if we can say so, a lower level of state's attorneys very questionably apply our regulations. In one case, what you said triggers criminal proceedings, in the other case some get bonuses or get rewarded for their work. My intervention went the other way because of the fact that very often we do not know, it has been said that there has been an increase in the number of anonymous criminal charges. We don't know about the amount of criminal charges in front of the state's attorneys, but it's very interesting that only when the public starts to talk about certain sensational issues or examples then the State's Attorney's office comes forward and then you find that the State's Attorney's Office has initiated some procedure. That's when things get faster. In other words, if it hadn't been for one way or another the information had come to the public, we would have doubted that perhaps the State's Attorney's Office wouldn't have acted at all. And that's why I was saying that we can't wait for these bodies to be launched by official duty, but that, regardless of the efficiency in the criminal matters reported in the 2013 report, they have to react much faster and more promptly to possible violations of the laws that we witness on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87045	Now the replica will be presented by the esteemed Branko Hrg, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87046	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Mlakar, you were talking about county state's attorneys, especially that management section. You said there were different problems. I'm just going to fill in and in principle a little bit and draw attention to the problems that we're facing at these levels. So, back in time, county state attorneys in some local self-governments, and there's been a lot of talk about local self-governments, and in this report they've been copying, literally copying entire country-books into the state, so today in one situation, I don't know if anyone else noticed it, but in some cities, the markets are all over. Even private property was prescribed to the state. Now a reverse procedure follows that we must now sue and ask for something to go back. It's cost-effective. So, we got complicated in that one system, and in that part, the same damage was done. So it's not just a shame that someone gets publicized, so then nothing and nothing happens, but it's doing material damage in that part where it's definitely one strange logic without knowing, say, local self-government, it's prescribing to a state of property that's not hers. After that she follows back.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87047	Third replica, respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87048	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At the end of your debate, you spoke of war victims and actions, criminal proceedings, in the case of war victims. For years now, Mr Cvitan has been among us for the first time and explained this report, but I've been asking the same question to Mr Bajic for years, and this time I'm going to repeat the same question and it's about your debate and it's like a replica. He's in Slavonski Brod in '92. 28 children under 14 years of age were killed since the bombing of the Serb army. One whole class. Today 22 years have passed since these events in the spring of '92. A year. We still, at least I didn't find out if it was a murder trial, really murder, kids who weren't carrying guns, completely telling innocent kids. Neither do I know the perpetrator, nor do I know whether the case has been brought against the unknown perpetrator, and I will ask that every year as long as one day I hope to get an explanation for such a thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87049	The replica matches the esteemed Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87050	Dear colleague Grubisic, so here I will join you in this search, although it is a terrible fact that even 20 years after all these events, we must ask what happened, if anyone has even initiated the procedure. When you witness the traumas that these people carry out from war, those who survived, the fact that even today people say that they meet criminals who worked on their heads and who are responsible for death, I don't know what number of people then I really wonder what society we live in that we have to ask after 20 years why we haven't started the procedure or if it's where it stopped. 20 years after these events, everything had to be settled long ago. At the same time, we are struggling to prove to our colleagues even to the President of the Republic, and then of course to the neighbours that they cannot extend their legislation to the territory of the Republic of Croatia and to prosecute and prosecute people for the crimes that took place in Croatia. And most of those who should be responsible for these crimes believe that they are not in Croatia. However, there are also those who are here, available to our bodies and prosecutions and courts, therefore, to all judicial authorities. And for 20 years, we've been insisting on solving the issue of war crimes. We're already at the end of 2014, and nothing's happened yet. No matter how slow justice was, she had to settle it in a much shorter time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87051	Now we're going to hear the presentation of our esteemed colleague, Nadice Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87052	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor's Chief Attorney, Your Honor, Your Honor, In my debate, I will try to look back through certain observations and remarks on this report of the state's attorneys for 2013, so the observations that I believe have not been made in the debates so far. So the first thing I'm saying is that municipal and county attorneys don't work on the same terms. So, in particular, that individual lawyers are far more burdensome than others, and I will try to illustrate that and document it with quite concrete information from the table attached to this report. So, I'll use the data only for 2013 and only for the county's attorneys. So let's say what I said, this claim, can be supported by, say, the movement of the number of adults reported from 800 in Sibenik to over 2300 in Varazdin up to 5500 in Zagreb. Or, for example, by moving the number of registered minors, who, in Dubrovnik, are only 43, in Varazdin 381, in Zagreb as many as 435. Or by moving the number of legal persons registered, of only 14 in Dubrovnik, in Varazdin most in the country 131 legal persons, in Zagreb 98. Either by moving the total number of applications received, in Dubrovnik it is 1652, in Varazdin 5268 or in Zagreb 17 919. So this is why I am calling for appropriate efforts to be directed, to level the business conditions of municipal and county attorneys, especially in that material, especially in the human part. My second observation refers to the comparableity of the time series of data presented in the tables that I have used myself during this debate. In general, therefore, it can be said that frequent amendments to the law have resulted in a significant reduction in the possibility of quality comparison of time series data so that we do not really know to what extent the occurrence of crime is really reduced, and how much it is due to the correct changes to the legal rules. This can also be documented, for example, by the fact that in 2013, even, according to the report, 13% less applications than in 2012. The question is therefore how much a reduction in the number of applications has really been, and to how much this reduction has been affected by the amended Penal Code that came into force in early 2013, which has decriminalized some crimes such as drug possession or domestic violence, and these are the very acts that are extremely numerous and, of course, have a great share in the total number of applications. The report also found that for the first time in 2013 the number of applications against unknown perpetrators exceeded the number of applications against known perpetrators. In any case, this is bad data even if we ignore the possibility of a reduced effectiveness of the organs of detection. So what we have to say is that this reduction has also been bested, so to speak, by the amended Penal Code, by increasing the amount of undefined values from 1000 to 2000 kuna, by reducing the number of property delicacies that are being prosecuted by official duty. If we know that crimes against property constitute even two thirds of the total number of applications and that the perpetrators of these crimes are too often unknown, or remain unknown, it is not really difficult to conclude how much this change legally affected the overall reduction of criminality, but also the increase in precisely these unknown perpetrators. It is, therefore, reduced pressure on courts, but the question is that citizens have gone through all of this, so how much the move reduces the level of their legal protection, which is actually what is absolutely the most important. In this context, I cannot, therefore, mention that raising the census, under quotes, so to call it, has contributed to the real explosion of property delicacies in Međimurje County, so in the county from which I come, where I will indeed use the term unsuspectingly steal. So, it's insecurely stolen, and the damaged citizens don't file private charges for a very simple reason that in the process of the operation they don't have any chance of calming down because the thief doesn't have any property. The citizens are therefore both powerless and angry at the same time and rightly wonder who is actually protecting them in this country. I therefore welcome and speak of this, the amendments to the Penal Code that we voted on last week, which return the amount of undefined values from 2000, or from 2000 to 1000 kuna, and the individual thefts of small values if committed by one and the same person, so the same perpetrator is actually being collected, or accumulated, and in such cases the procedure will be conducted under official duty and the penalty will be significantly greater than the present case. I want to believe, behold, that the amendments to the Penal Code will act as a deterrent to the perpetrators. My third observation refers to the finding in the report that reports against younger minors are falling, and they are also falling and reporting against minors for 19%, and these are certainly data to be looked forward to. It is pointed out that the purpose of conducting proceedings against these two groups is not to punish, but to prevent and assist resociation and that the application of the principle of purpose which is the basis for half of all rejections is shown to be far more effective than the initiation of the criminal proceedings. I fully agree with that attitude. However, what devalues this view to a certain extent, such a conclusion as was given in the report is the high growth... in the juvenile population, it amounts to as much as 36%, with most of these perpetrators being members of a national minority. What is further worrying is that this growth is being further accelerated in 2014. With this information, it should also be said that more and more children in the ranks are taking care of these very national minorities in foster families and children’s homes because they are in their biological families, because they are actually being neglected there. This, we have to admit, is a double cost to the state because on the one hand, the state gives huge money for social assistance and child benefits, and unfortunately these funds are not spent on purpose. Therefore, they are not used to raise standards, i.e. to better ensure better living conditions for children, so that children continue to live in poor conditions and that is certainly one of the important factors in increasing their criminal activities, i.e. activities. So the question arises whether, with this high growth in the number of minors repeating crimes, it is possible to talk about the success of the impunity model in this situation. It's clear to me that you've shown... the reserve in this report, so in such cases... should be punished, but I say, this question stands. And finally, the last thing I find particularly interesting in this report is the tendency of the fall of criminal acts against official duty, which in themselves draw great attention because by international standards, they are considered corruption crimes and are in the jurisdiction of the USKOK. So, over the period, this is an interesting data, from 2008 to 2011 the number of these crimes has been steadily increased, and then in 2012 it was significantly reduced compared to 2011. In 2013 compared to 2012, there was a further decrease of 26%. One of the reasons for this reduction is once again the amendment of the Penal Code, so the content of the crime is changed to abuse of positions and powers which is the most important part of the group of crimes against official duty, but I personally want to believe that this positive change has contributed to and a certain change in climate, i.e. the relationship to corruption it has brought, I repeat, want to believe, and change of government in the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87053	Thank you. We have one replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87054	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I have to look back at your exposure, my colleague, because here in our Slavonia and Srem and Baranja there are a series of works that are exactly from that sphere you were talking about. Namely, mass thefts are agricultural aids, machines, etc. Mowers, so-called trimmers, frizzes, motor chicken disappears from people in villages by mass. People call the police, there's a record being made, and after that, here's a friend who's been missing for a year and a half after that doesn't know anything about what's going on with that record and what about his tools that he's had, who's gone and one of them I'm gonna say fatal nights. And now you're talking about Međimurje and you're talking about Pribislavec as much as I watch on television and the same thing as those residents in Pribislavec are talking about a national minority. It's not that thief who stole anything, stole what he stole from that very national minority, he was a Croat, he was a Serb or a Roma, so say loud and clear why he kept, so we don't discriminate against anyone. So, we're always afraid of something here in the Croatian Parliament. So when he steals, he doesn't steal because he's a Croat or because he's a Serb or a Roma, he steals because he is, or he has a need, maybe I don't know why. Therefore, the provisions of the new Penal Code I hope will contribute, because all of these, so let me say these things that have been used and I'm talking about these lawn mowers, they're neither worth more than 2,000 kuna and they don't belong in the sphere or domain of criminal law and criminal law. I hope that we may achieve something as you have expressed hope by changing this Penal Code, in that sense some improvement that will take place in terms of these criminal charges even though there will be a lot of, a lot of criminal charges at that time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87055	Thank you. The replica matches the esteemed Nadia Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87056	Thank you, Vice President. So here's how agricultural machines are stolen in Slavonia, so there are really mass-stealing agricultural products in Međimurje. So it's amazing how much that is, what kind of scale it's achieved this year. So, the truth is the police make an insight, a record is made, the perpetrator is found to be unknown and in fact a damaged person, a damaged citizen never finds out what happened, he doesn't personally initiate the procedure because he is exposed to certain costs and he knows in advance that he won't be able to get any satisfaction because the person who committed the offence so far has no property to be taken away from her in the executive procedure. What you've apostrophe specifically said that I was afraid to say about which national minority it was, I wasn't afraid to say, I just thought it was too much to point out since it's a common-known thing and you said it yourself. So, personally, I believe that these amendments to the Penal Code that we adopted last week will contribute to making all these individual acts cumulate, so that the bag per bag of potatoes turns out to be a tractor of stolen potatoes and that it's being punished far stricter than it was before.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87057	The right to present his ten-minute debate is now being given to the respected Josip Kregar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87058	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ... Thank you very much. [[Specially enabled.]] Dear Mr. Cvitan, many have spoken and spoke positively about the report you presented and delivered. I'm not going to stick around so much, because it would mean repeating a lot, and it's said and commendably, but I'm going to look back at things that should actually be noticed because they're visible, and three of them are. The first is the fact that, knowingly or unconsciously, we acknowledge that the State's Attorney's office has received on its own a task that it cannot perform. The state's attorney's office can't fix the company it's in. It can perform its function, but anything that happens in society can't correct the impediments and procedures that will threaten people with general prevention. The state's attorney's office just pointed out... The people who work there showed their opportunities in the previous period, but also revealed their limitations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we hear about the fact that the state's attorney's office has been declared effective, but to order the means of prevention, let us take it as one warning thing, that the state's attorney can't fix everything that others can spoil. It was about small thefts or big corruption. Let us not believe that the investigations, that the procedures conducted by the state's attorney's office will lead to people giving up on breaking the law, will not. What is quite clear, however, is that the state attorney's office should facilitate the task or other words that we should also consider the possibilities of other institutions because it will simplify it, or we will pay teachers who raise people or cops who will catch those who are wrong. Since we have come to a certain saturation in this second one, let us also see how the state’s attorney’s office works in this light. And that's where I come up with one thing that's worrying. We have failed to notice not because we are as a society in the conditions of poverty, in the state budget it is not easy to find funds, but we have failed to notice that the state's attorney's office is seeking, demands and must have the reproduction of the people who work there. We're in it, the report clearly shows it, we're late. In time, we won't have enough in the state's attorney's office or enough experienced people to carry out whatever the task of the state's attorney's office is. The fact that we have served the conditions for the election of officials, or people in the state's attorney's office, has led to the fact that it is actually not worth investing so many years of effort due to uncertain progress and unstable position. We, especially at lower levels of the state's attorney's office, won't soon have people who have enough experience to deal with those... who break the law but have excellent lawyers well-paid, who don't work on Saturdays and Sundays and don't want to do it. But here I look back at the need to change something in the education selection system especially the permanent lifelong education of people who do this task. The fact that there are no trainees, that there are not those who will be appointed to the post of deputy state attorney means that the crisis is about to begin. And I come to the end and finish. Mr. Cvitan, I said yesterday... the reasons that companies would be considered the reason for the strike, but the State's Attorney's Office and similar institutions can't strike. Their strike is not as visible as when teachers strike, the consequences are visible and not immediately but over time and irreparable. Once a failed education, a once ruined system of investigation and persecution will not be able to be restored, not only with great resources, if the right moments to be used are missed in order for the State's Attorney's Office to be trained. Because what Mr. Cvitan is actually talking about is not a situation of a silent strike, is it not, but rather, a bankruptcy situation of an institution that has actually been brought to the brink of endurance because the State's Attorney's Office is accused of selectively choosing objects, of refusing to participate in certain procedures, of the application being rejected or standing in drawers, but all of this actually testifies to the burden that lies beyond the possibilities of the present institution. It won't work out, I'll do it again with more people, but if we miss this opportunity and we don't get enough people and we don't get any more resources...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87059	The replica was reported by the respected Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87060	Thank you very much. You were right to talk about prevention, but you rightly stated that we had quite ruined the education system. Imagine when an interview and the title of a former teacher on the page of a daily newspaper said I was sorry that I raised the right children at school. In what courteous state would it get that interview place in a daily newspaper? None, where the teacher says she was supposed to raise them to crime because this is a state of crime. That's terrible! As terrible as this week on page 4 screams the interview of the general who brutally attacked Croatia. Imagine if we gave in to such prevention, and in fact the educational function of education was eliminated violently from that system because they say education is at home, not at school, and the child spends more at school than at home. But since he's already scheduled that educational function that he needs to share, we're such a small country that every thief named and last name in this country knows, and no one knows who stole the lawn mower, who stole the tractor, and everyone who stole it is known. Well, I know who stole it from me on Christmas four wheels of cars, but in a year, no one even called the police to tell me what she did about it. So all those who can do and do what they do and who collects interest in interest, see here in the 4th month Croatian weekly article will show who does it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87061	Comrade Maric, time's up. The replica matches the esteemed Joseph Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87062	I'm glad that despite the fact that we're shared by many benches, we agree on the assessment of the general condition. What I had in mind, however, in terms of prevention is not just a different education component, but it is that we can easily go beyond the fact that a state or society cannot be managed in such a way as not to see the obvious consequences of increased corruption. Increased corruption is the result of poor selection of people for positions, politicised criteria, which is what we're doing, we're doing it in prevention, when there's no means to act on that system of openness of government, and then the closed government will increase the chance of using the political monopoly, I mean. When it comes to media, I am aware that we live in a polluted society with a lot of objections, possible complaints from professional, moral or political media. But I'm also aware that any effort to silence the media will produce even worse results. We were helped by the media in what Mr. Cvitan is doing, revealing numerous affairs that no one would ever report and that's important and that's said. Mr. Cvitan said it was one of the weaker points of the state's attorney's office. And the fact that the application is gone, the media can't solve it, but I can help.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87063	We are continuing with individual debates, and it is up to the distinguished Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87064	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will try very briefly to present what I think is the essence of this report, or rather the essence of this report's message, which refers to whether this report is not, but whether the work of the State's Attorney's Office is successful and how we can interpret it on the basis of this report. This report brings this already said a number of statistical indicators, of course the question is now their comparison and many of the issues that are raised on the basis of these indicators. Of course, there are unprofessional and casual interpretations that are dangerous to lead us on a completely wrong path. Data per group, as stated in the report, crime could not be combined, after years of comparison with earlier years only partially possible for these reasons, which are the new structure of the Penal Code, new forms of criminal offences, changes in existing ones, increase in bagatile value, property damage. For the first time in 2013, therefore, the number of applications against unknown perpetrators is higher than the number of applications against known persons. However, in addition to amendments to the law and the value of the drop in applications, other crimes which have not been changed are present. So this requires an analysis and a determination of the reason why it is. We could ask ourselves this question of what is expected of the State's Attorney's Office and the State's Attorney, which is what the public expects and what we all expect. One word might say this is how we expect a lot. However, Professor Kregar has opened one topic and we could say in one sentence what a teacher, could say a parent or raiser spoils neither 10 police officers or state attorneys, will be difficult to fix. In the process itself, the state's attorney has as much authority as it is given to a particular procedural law. The effectiveness of the State's attorney also often depends on the quality and manner of handling of other bodies which are required to submit a criminal application or to provide information for its conduct. It is therefore necessary to appreciate the work of other bodies when assessing the effectiveness of work in a particular field against the protection of the property of the Republic of Croatia or in the persecution of perpetrators of criminal offences, with the work of a State lawyer. And here, in my opinion, we come to the essence of this report and I will quote from the report: "The state's attorney's office is responsible for decisions on effectiveness in the course of criminal proceedings, while police and other bodies must take over the main burden of detecting and preventing criminal offences, which is more so than the number of applications filed against celebrities in the fall.". The State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia in the work on most criminal cases, regardless of the knowledge and involvement of a particular state attorney who requires the conduct of the reconnaissance of the police, is as successful as the police and other bodies in the detection of criminal offences and perpetrators and in the collection of data and evidence necessary for the successful completion of the proceedings. It is listed further in the report, working together with the police is only in the smaller part normised by the laws. Interrelationships of methods of working together are governed by the Protocol on joint work. The protocol states exactly when police are required to disclose and report crimes themselves and when acting on the orders of a state attorney. Other issues related to the implementation of certain actions have also been settled in order to apply the Criminal Procedure Act without difficulty. So far, the application of the protocol shows that the co-operation and the police's conduct both under the Law on Police Affairs and Powers and under the orders of the state's attorney is crucial to the effectiveness of prosecution. Furthermore, the report states when it comes to the protection of the property interests of the Republic of Croatia held meetings with ministries and other state offices and administrations to the extent and manner necessary in certain cases. And I think it is extremely important when we talk about the cooperation of public authorities and then we come to the question of the very way and the cooperation in terms of data changes. In this respect, the computer communication infrastructure that is being built can be of great benefit. The report states that the number of computers and the condition of these computers are not good, let me say at an envious level, but what is even more dangerous at 28 locations still has no access to the HItronet through a secure broadband infrastructure. These problems could be solved, perhaps from one of the proposals is through computerization in... Of course, if all the conditions of security are respected but it is not only a matter of a state lawyer but of all public institutions, because in this way many resources that do not have to be purchased physically could be exchanged, they could exchange data. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order to systematically monitor all reform measures and activities and to introduce a comprehensive system of statistical monitoring of all types of proceedings in judicial bodies, measures to introduce modern IT shall be continuously implemented. In particular, it is an important e-script, a unique system for the management of court cases while a system for the monitoring of cases is introduced in the State Attorney's Office. It will make a significant contribution to easier and faster insight into the files by electronic means, and also through the information network, direct access has been provided to the criminal and criminal records of the Ministry of Justice as well as the records of the Ministry of the Interior's residence. Such a system largely allows for systematic control and monitoring of work on matters of the state's attorney's office as a whole, as well as the work of each deputy and adviser individually, in all phases of the case. This is very important in order to measure, valorize the efficiency of any single state attorney, or individual attorney's office. This integration is necessary and contributes to the faster and better work of the state's attorneys. Speaking of information technologies, it should be mentioned that the crimes of cybercrime are growing from year to year. Experiences from other countries that are implementing... Information technology generally under the Republic of Croatia shows that more and more crimes are committed through the network and using computer information technologies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. A large majority of 105 criminal charges referred to in Article 271 have been reported. Penalty law, computer fraud. Eleven people have been charged while courts have passed 78 convictions of which 72 convicts. That's where eight people for computer fraud are sentenced to prison sentences. In view of all the above, in the report and the clarification given by the attorney general in the opening statement, we can conclude that expertise is an extremely high level of knowledge and competence necessary for quality work in the DORH. Finally, another fact in the report should be mentioned that the number of pending applications as well as previous years is at the level of the two-month inflow. The vast majority of applications are resolved before the end of 3 months from the date of receipt, which all points to satisfactory updates. This report should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87065	Thank you. Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87066	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. State Attorney, I spoke on behalf of the club, and I'm not going to talk about the report, because there's a lot of things that have been said today. I'd like two things in particular to be apostrophe that I think should change for you, and that's the first thing I'm going to mention. It's thinking about the current strict, formalized conditions that are needed to be appointed Deputy Attorney General. With the financial resources that we have heard so much about from your report, and also from your colleagues' debates to answer your task with the responsibility you still have, of course there must be human fill-up. By means of procedural provisions and by material law, we have increased your powers, given you additional work, so the additional work that burdens you regardless of the decline in criminal applications that will continue to grow, but because of the procedural provisions, your work is increasing. What needs to be formally satisfied in order for someone to be appointed a deputy state attorney, and at the same time you have a pool of advisors in which you could not have these formal conditions reached and thus fill in the staff gaps, are certainly to think about. It may look a little personal what I'm about to say, without any of my own natural pretentiousness, but that I'll be fit to myself and to think about whether these ceilings are supposed to change. So I've had 20 years of judicial training during my work experience, which, as a judge, as a lawyer, I have passed a judicial exam. I can't be appointed Deputy State Attorney because I don't have a state school laid down. Or perhaps even more eclectic example, imagine, the current president of the Republic of Croatia Dr. Ivo Josipovic is a regular law professor at the Faculty of Law. He cannot be appointed Deputy State Attorney under current conditions. These are certainly limits that I don't think need great effort or great intelligence to see that significant changes can be made here and thus personnel team up. Of course, I don't want anyone to take this part of my exposure as part of where I would like to banish the expertise needed to carry out such a responsible duty, but certainly that long-term work in the judiciary and passed a judicial exam which has always been a demanding exam gives enough expertise for someone to do the job of a deputy state attorney. And the funds that are spent and the time spent, as you have stated very clearly here, is that today is the first time to pass a preliminary exam for a trainee, after 2 years a judicial exam from the practical part and legal knowledge before a 5-member commission is passed, because without that, it is not possible to run for state school and after 2 years in a state school is re-tested again. The second part of my debate will be very brief and, of course, respecting the fact that we cannot talk about individual cases or from the position of constitutional provisions or provisions of the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, but very often we have witnessed large media inscriptions that have acted in such a way as to be bombistic, but the fact that to this day many of these great inscriptions have not been processed in terms of solving criminal charges. I don't want to have any flat-rates or any intention of considering it if there's a criminal statement that it's an assumption that someone has to be charged, but that criminal charges must be solved either by a rejection or otherwise. The big pomp was about the correction of spatial plans in the City of Zagreb, and it all happened all together 4 years ago. It's not a complex procedure. It is only whether the content of the correction should have gone into changes and additions to the spatial plan and that long-term procedure that the legal provisions require. I don't think solving criminal charges for four years is allowed. If there is not enough evidence and evidence, then it should certainly be solved. And I also consider that as a pomp about the resolution of the directors of tax administrations and the initiation of proceedings against them, I think it was two years ago, because if certain referents, officials did not charge taxes to certain legal persons for several years there should also not be difficult skills to see whether someone has misused their duty on the one hand or whether someone has traded influence. With the number of criminal charges processed from the impact trading title, I am not satisfied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87067	Thank you. We have a replica of the respected Goran Marić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87068	Thank you very much. Mrs. Fabiancic, you've rightly pointed this out, so it prompted me to react to finally solving the issue of eight of us, and I think it's from the IRS. Although I don't think it's about the directors of the Tax Administrations, it's just for the officials of the Ministry of Finance who the finance minister publicly said were a organised criminal group, which in itself is accommodatingly in itself that in advance, the minister claims to be his associates, that he threatens them, expressly relieves them, or I'll put you in jail or resign. They couldn't even sign a complaint. They're either out of a job or... So to this day it is not known whether they are guilty or not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He doesn't know, but I'd like to know. You don't know what's worse if they're guilty, and they don't answer, and God forbid they're not guilty, and they're carrying everything they've been carrying so far. How much trouble they've suffered, how much damage their family and all of them have suffered. It can't be that long over some mortgage that no one takes off, and they're accused by no one but the former minister. I'm not sure if it was just to bring in another who might have, maybe people were doing the right thing. I don't know, I say. But that's why it's also the state's attorney's office to determine such things as soon as possible. The action, as I said earlier, I'm not sure that non-payment of credit is a criminal offense. It's not possible if they're all done. But if someone deliberately, consciously doesn't take out the loan insurance, then they have the elements. But in the same case, one bank is crucified, and in the other case the other bank protects me, it's not acceptable for me in the same bank to act differently, because the other bank is the director. And maybe it's none of the faults most likely Thank you very much. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87069	We're continuing an individual debate. It's time for the esteemed Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87070	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Attorney. Therefore, the State's Attorney's Office's 2013 report is exhaustive and comprehensive. It shows that the work of the State's Attorney's Office by my impression was good in the existing conditions and with the current staff, and I think it should be supported. Special respect, as we can see from this report, should be given to the staff of the USKOK who, therefore, only 30 performs, so I would say the lion's work. So, on average, it's given to the employee in the 48 objects that I don't know this roughly, it should be one object a week, and since it's extremely complex objects, it's certainly a huge burden. It's interesting in the report, here's to conclude that men are a sub-represented sex in the State's Attorney's Office. In some parts of Zagreb County State Attorney's Office, women account for 82%. So there is really no criticism here that women cannot break through to a higher level but have, therefore, become a three-quarter majority at certain levels of the county's state's attorneys' offices. It is certainly necessary to support the recommendations contained in this Report, so focused as were the words in previous discussions of the dedicated system of recruiting new staff, but in general I would say to the judicial officials. Indeed, the system in which someone who has come out of practice and who has passed the judicial exam needs to be further taught and that he still has to take additional exams is indeed too bulky, too expensive, and insufficiently efficient. Here, after a judicial examination, I believe that it should allow candidates for judicial duties to be appointed to their duties, but to ensure, of course, additional education with work. I believe that this initiative towards the Ministry of Justice to change the system would certainly fall on fertile soil. The report therefore raises concerns over insufficient financial resources, which are therefore set aside for professional skills. I agree that it must be ensured that art is performed, because in the most complex cases such a gathering and complex art is simply an necessity, a condition without which it cannot be. But the only thing that can be asked here is the broader issue of this whole articulation context. It's my impression, in general, that the art, the witch's fees, are extremely high. If we compare the work that a traffic engineer or economist is in a particular state ministry or tax administration in the management position performs and compares, therefore, this work with the work of the experts of the same profession can be concluded that this work is of the same complexity and complexity, but that the fees here in state bodies are much less. Therefore, it can be legitimate to ask whether this is justified and whether there is a possibility that these costs may be reduced by normative measures and by limiting compensation, whether or not to consider setting up a single body of art for all skills, such as the Law on the establishment of a single body of skills in relation to disability procedures, working ability when rights are exercised, certain rights in respect of, therefore, disability, skills, etc. When it comes to the work of the Civil Administration Department, it is evident that the work of that department is up-to-date and good according to the data presented. However, it seems to me that it would be good to point out in particular the degree of cooperation with other state bodies, in particular the State Office for State Property Management. So, as it seems to me that more important information is how this cooperation works, because, according to my knowledge, there is still a large part of state property that is either not identified, registered as state property, and therefore represents dead capital. It's obvious that we need to establish perhaps better communication, better work. But there will be inter-resorship cooperation and cooperation between the State's Attorney's office and other bodies. A statement on information equipment has been made. I absolutely agree, therefore, that information equipment is necessary for quality and efficient work. But here's a little bit of an amateur understanding in information, so I need to say that my impression at the level of the entire state administration is, as far as I know, somewhat of the situation from practice that it's total that I call it the hardware power of existing IT equipment even with the information equipment that was obtained a number of years ago exceeds the real need of the entire state apparatus when we look at it as a whole. Most of the officers there have these... computers that, as far as I know, can be very easily upgraded for significantly less costs than it is to obtain new computers and thus adapt to new requirements. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, there is a great possibility of exploiting unused resources. In addition to that, I think my colleague, Sagar, mentioned this, that the future of information business is in the so-called so-called so-called business. These cloud apps where the hardware power of one... is no longer of some crucial importance. Therefore, I find it necessary for the information services of all state bodies to be connected and for the information resources available to all state bodies to be placed under one cap in some way. This is an observation that does not apply essentially to the State's Attorney's Office, but I point out that when it comes to information and debates when people of the executive authority are present and all that can affect problem-solving in this area. Clearly, as far as building network infrastructure is concerned, there is certainly a need for additional investment and I appeal once again to integrate the system of all state bodies into one whole because it is necessary for more efficient work of the state administration. There each kuna can result in much greater savings when we speak through therefore increasing the efficiency of work. To return to this report, the fact is that there is a significant decline in the number of criminal charges against strangers and against celebrities and this certainly requires further analysis. But I would even say that my even impression is that this is also the result of good penal policymaking in the last period, that measures... to prevent and resociate perpetrators of criminal offences here is my impression may have an effect but of course that the judicial authorities including the State's attorneys are doing a good job. With regard to the problem of pending reports, I would reiterate my remark that it would be good to see that the report contains more detailed information on the number of pending reports concerning the types of criminal offences and the concrete measures taken to resolve these reports, to see what we are specifically dealing with and whether we can make the executive authority, the State's Attorney's Office and us as a legislative body, as well as whether we can possibly contribute to the development of new tools that would make it easier for the State's Attorney's Office, or whether we can make the work more efficient. It was also in the last debate of the word, it seems to me that on the subject of these pending reports while we're here, I would like to point out that without exception, it is treated equally in the conduct of proceedings in all cases. I don't want to talk about individual cases, but for the time being, I'd say it's my impression that we have the fact that certain phenomena that are not yet entering the age-old stage are not being processed, although some more recent occurrences of the same type are being processed. This should certainly be taken into account, regardless of the burden, because focus only on the recent phenomena that has been addressed... such same phenomena from a further period of the past could cast a shadow on the work of the State's Attorney's Office. In my opinion, it's unwarranted. When we talk about the financial needs of the State's Attorney's Office, I would certainly also support the appeal that additional resources are provided to the State's Attorney's office, to provide additional resources for work, as it seems to me that any additional kuna invested in the work of the State's Attorney's Office can result in much greater results and much more efficiency. As a matter of fact, this property plan can result in savings primarily in preventing illegal damage, but therefore also preventative of damage that has not yet occurred. When we talk about the work of the Anti-Corruption and Organized Crime Office, then a percentage of 97.9% of the convictions is mentioned. It's a fantastic average, it can point to perfect work but it can also indicate that it may play too often only to safety. I'd say the field of corruption is swamps, lots of holes and whirlpools. I'm afraid in order to effectively contain and dry that field, we may have to step out of the field of complete security and try to be more thorough, perhaps even at the expense of impeccable statistics. Here's how there's no time to conclude anymore I'd like to repeat that behind this report it can be found that the work of the State's Attorney's Office as... was good and that for very much things the State's Attorney's Office deserves commendation. I join another initiative to increase the resources for work and to improve the equipment of the State's Attorney's Office, and I hope that certain remarks will be accepted. In any case, the report should be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87071	Replica, respected Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87072	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Chief Attorney of State. Comrade Pandek, here I am patiently listening to all of you from the parliamentary majority and your exposure. You've all said that you support this report, you're all deeply compassionate with our State's Attorney's office, but do you wonder if we can somehow help the State's Attorney's office make it easier to work and contribute to better quality work or what we can fix in society as Dr. Cregar. Namely, one part that hurts all of us from the shores, that's the listing of marine goods. This report reiterates, as in previous reports, the problem of the implementation of maritime goods registrations is highlighted. And it is now said that municipal state attorneys are significantly burdened with cases due to unequal practice of courts. The main reason and the way we can regulate it is the new Law on Maritime Goods and Seaports that stands, there is a public debate. We know very well that the new Law on Maritime Good and Seaports has been proposed by the Croatian Democratic Community and you rejected the proposal last Friday, and you did not put the new one on the agenda. Do you, by voting like this, contribute to an even worse quality and more problems in the work of the State's Attorney's Office? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87073	The replica matches the esteemed Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87074	I don't think so. I think it was said that, therefore, all the remarks in that bill would be considered. As far as I know, the DOJ is considering and working on it. I really don't know the details now, it's a real question for people from the executive office, from the D.A.'s office. But if, in any case, I stand at the disposal of the Institute of Representative Affairs that you can ask them and I believe they will give you a satisfactory answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87075	The last individual debate, respected Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87076	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Attorney General, so here's the report correctly written and focused on the real needs the state's attorney general has in order to do his job. It seems that the government's reaction and response to your report, which states that some material financial conditions and labour efficiency monitoring needs are not in line with the Ministry of Finance's data. By doing so, the Government of the Republic of Croatia says that you probably do not need more funds and that it will not allow you, regardless of how much money it takes to get new cars, finance various events that have no purpose or efficiency. The same with NGOs and hats is shared many times without order and way of huge amounts of money. State attorneys, who should do their job properly and purposely, are likely to be deprived of funds so as not to find anyone else from the government with their fingers in jam. I cannot interpret differently the inability to find funds for your needs, no different, and this comes from a little bit of the government's opinion that something is not in line with the Ministry of Finance in your budget reports, that simply as much as you have with it no longer and you don't need to, and how much you get there. You'd better work less, you'll find out our coalition partners and us with our fingers in the jam. However, I did not report that he would deal with finance and needs even though it is necessary to say so and without it there is no possibility, no professional staff, no training, no all that is necessary to follow new achievements and also European norms and standards. I'd go back to war crimes that weren't too much of a speech today, war crimes from which some have been prosecuted, some being punished in absentia, and for some today, warrants continue. I will return to the area of my county where the victims are Chetekovac, Cojluk, Voćin, Balinci in all 100 innocent victims for which the three were prosecuted, and 60 were tried in absentia. We have a report from the state's attorney's office that they sent us. I wonder if interstate co-operation at the level of judicial authorities, and so does the state's attorney's office require further progress or stagnation? Could you and the Serbian prosecutor be able to bring justice to all those described in the books, and we delivered the books to the State's Attorney's Office in Bjelovar. We delivered with all descriptions of people who were on certain functions as commanders of their battalions at the time, Slavonic brigades or Chetnic papal squads who committed massacres with clear descriptions, images, names, names of individuals who did these crimes. I think it's time for interstate co-operation at the level of the judicial authorities to come to life in the fullest sense, or for it to end. You cannot fully work for the needs of all those seeking war criminals in Croatia, or criminals in the second or third order, regardless of what actions are being conducted, and while you ask them to extradite those convicted before Croatian courts or to prosecute themselves before their courts there is no answer. The silence or dissatisfaction is equal to supporting those who have committed the most serious crimes of war crimes in the aggression against the Republic of Croatia. The evils that are described as the exodus of Serbs from western Slavonia, some celebrate and celebrate even perhaps by not bowing down to the victim never in Voćin, nor in Chetekovac, Čojluk, nor in Balinci, nor in Vukovar, they worship neither there nor there, worship the Shoskocan as their Chetnik duke, who ended up in the waves of the Danube. And I don't know how an occupying, rebel army leader is allowed a monument on the territory of the Republic of Croatia with a Serbian flag. That's what often causes further divisions, conflicts, international intolerance and hatred, that's what we're talking about that some dare to call others and do nothing but encourage hatred and national division. Without the processing of those who have committed crimes in these places of our county Virovitica-Podravska as well as throughout Croatia there is no reasonable solution for tolerance, peace, forgiveness and then ultimately forget. Even historical textbooks can't be without a reality that's experienced, a reality that's heavy, painful and horrifying. The same way that the massacres that were committed and committed were also crimes against humanity's rapes, just as in the fruit area and sub-papuca region there is another book called "Sunica" if you read it, you know who the sun is. The sun was only eight months old when her mother was imprisoned and tirelessly raped all the time in captivity. It's the sun, it's the child who suffered along with his mother all the occupying robes, jackets and blouses so as not to hear her moan, so that the baby's cry is darkened. It is that testimony through this brochure only a part of everything that has been done, and the perpetrators are mostly not available or if they are available then calls are made that they are abolized. Neither are they toiled with the face of justice, so that witnesses may be heard against them. I'll say the following, several times I've clearly named those I consider personally responsible for the Pacrat area for the Logor in Vienna, for the massacre of 12 Virovitscans, for the murder of 20 Bjelovarcans, for the torture of the mine in Kusonjah, for all of this there is the name and name of the organizer of the rebellion, there is a man who ordered, who organized, who formed it. I don't think any of the Abolition Laws have any of these instruments of forgiveness. And by drawing upon the face of justice, the witnesses will certainly be relieved to express all the troubles they had before. They won't meet them on the street, they won't be threatened yet, they won't laugh in their face boldly and rudely over everything they've survived as victims of war, as well as all the children who have grown up in this free, independent country who have to listen that criminals are still free to walk, that they are not brought to justice. I ask you, Mr. State's Attorney, to study these books well, to give orders and to make it clear to all resources with the support of witnesses who are still alive, by Doctor Solar himself, who is a witness that they have also imprisoned him in Logor Buče, who was the organizer, the commanding officer and what they did to him. Likewise, the new witnesses I have made myself to find talk about who were the perpetrators in the Grubish field so that the possibility of this, the debate and your knowledge should be next, that Veljko Maric is probably not the only one who has been harassed or has been harassed or not been harassed. There are other perpetrators who have committed crimes, but have been abolized or forgiven by crimes, and that is impossible, according to Croatian laws that is impossible. Anyone who bloodied his hands or directly ordered or ordered it must be sanctioned and I will not stop repeating it as long as I have strength in both the voice and the staff, and as long as the documents are written about one being persecuted for innocent little things, while others are free in the territories of the Republic of Serbia, the Krajina and the red warrants are not valid for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87077	We've got two lines reported. First honorary representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87078	Thank you. A fellow Djakic from your debate is here to conclude that it is obvious that the the thesis that constantly stretches that the State's Attorney's office is not doing its job in the processing of war crimes. It's a thesis that stretches all the time. However, I will read to you the information that says that 3436 people have been charged with war crimes so far, 557 of them have been convicted, 760 proceedings have been suspended, and 1221 are expected, 98% are convicted and convicted of Serbian nationality. According to what is now said in the report and another 37 new applications were read from page 31. At the end of the investigation, 21 people were charged. It would be good to see in a structure that's 21 people. I'm afraid they're members of the Serbian Nationality again. I respect the data from the books and they need to be processed and all those who have committed war crimes should be prosecuted. Absolutely a crime has no color or name or nation, but the other side has books. So no books have been opened on the other hand, and some questions should be answered why no one has been prosecuted for war crimes against Serbs in '91. Let everyone who is guilty of the accident they have done to others be judged.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87079	The replica corresponds to Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87080	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I know my colleague Horvat that you would prefer it if it were the other way around with the Croatians than with the Serbs, you would probably welcome it. However, you forget to say who was the aggressor to the Republic of Croatia. You forget that millions of people in various units have been scrambling and crumbling, destroying and burning. And it's too much, but I trust the judiciary, in all the proceedings, one brigade of Croatian and Croatian police officers has been convicted in law all this time. I think that's quite enough to say that the State's Attorney's Office did its job as well as the judicial bodies, as well as the law enforcement authorities and that they didn't ignore anyone. Even more have they done than yours have helped in the re-integrated area as well as those who have remained in the police force, as many times as they have been aggravating factor in conducting the investigation. Likewise, I said that all but red warrants should be prosecuted, interstate judicial agreements are not respected and if they are not respected or only unilateral, if the Republic of Croatia helps to detect crime, crime, everything else then the same must be done by the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina and all others, then the same parity must be in it. If we have spoken many times that we want to cooperate, then we must all respect it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87081	The second replica of Đurjica twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87082	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. State's Attorney. Dear colleague Djakic, I only wanted to attend your debate when you mentioned the Sun, that it was a child of eight months. And the victims of this brutal, brutal, I would not only say rape but it was simply a war that was then the construction of war against Croatia's youngest victim is 6 months old and the oldest victim is 8 months old. And yes, the question arises, and you've spoken well, we don't know yet exactly how much of the demand came to the State's Attorney's Office which is being done and we're going to, probably, set up by the association, we'd like to know that particular information. But the big problem is what you yourself have indicated is that criminals walk, criminals live, fellow Mlakar just spoke. And in reality, we are all interested in how it is possible to know that someone committed a crime in the area of Vukovar, Skabrnje, anywhere in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and he is now working peacefully in some company city or whatever, as is possible and when such things will be resolved. When that sort of thing is solved, I don't think we'll have any problem with what nationality. Because we personally have no problem knowing who was in reality an aggressor to the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87083	The replica corresponds to the respected Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87084	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues of the Sumrak, yes, the horrors described in this book of the Sun are also so many things that have not been resolved, and the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament which requires an indication from the competent authorities about the data collected on children killed in the aggressor war. We also did not read it until today, regardless of what we believe the relevant bodies must report to the Croatian Parliament on every request and answer any question. I'll say that a lot of those who have wronged their hands, some courts think they're abolized or forgiven, and that's illegal. It can't be said for those in Bor's village who are massacred that they are abolized, the perpetrators can't be embolized because they committed a massacre. Similarly, those who today, as you say, may still be in the ranks of the Croatian police, the Croatian judiciary or any other function cannot be apportioned. So today I learned that he is a member of a brigade of the Administrative Council of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre, imagine, the Homeland War. Well, that's what the man we're living in is asking. As far as possible, what our services are doing, who suggested it. So it is in the police, without checking, that none of them can enter the Croatian police system, as the abolised Chetniks serve in the Croatian police.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87085	Final address of the attorney general, the esteemed Dink Cwitan, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87086	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. First of all, I'd like to thank everyone for today's debate. You know that this report and the content of the report is defacto determined in Article 40. The Law on the State's Attorney's Office does not contain data on specific cases. And I, even though I know many answers to the questions raised here, cannot answer specific questions because it is not the task of this report. This report to say is not meant to be praised by work, I have presented here data on the lack of financial resources, I have also provided data on the shortcomings or lack of computer equipment but with a clear indication that this year the situation has been corrected. However, the handicap has been this report for years to be filed in October, this year even early, even one year we have had a report with a year and a half late and it is pointless, pointless because this content of the report no longer reflects the real state of things. So it's done a lot on the HITRONET, 660 computers have been purchased, existing computers are being restored, so the Department of Justice has done a lot of things, but I think this report should go much earlier. However, I would also like to thank you for the suggestions for improving the content of the existing report as it is arranged and will be corrected next year. As I will not answer on specific cases, I will consider this a representative issue and all MPs will be provided with answers to questions. But I have to say since Mrs. Kosor raised the question and asked the question of war crimes by rape, and now it's repeated, of course, that the State's Attorney's office has analyzed a detailed book of the Sun. He has continued to cooperate with the NGO of the Women in the Homeland War. And the whole treatment of rape victims actually determined the conduct of the County State Attorney's Office in Osijek only one thing to be, to concentrate. It was ordered by state lawyers, and the police received the same order, so all the papers, everything that exists from the archives, were drawn from not only the archives found in police archives, state law records, but the archives that... the archives of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia and that all the information available to identify these war victims should be obtained and that talks could be held with those persons, of course, in a situation where they are not the applicants themselves, and now I will say how many of these persons have submitted their applications. In addition, an invitation was sent to the Croatian State's Attorney's Office website to report these women. That's why you have data in your report last year that 59 are rape victims, but it's no longer 59 but 83. What's the final number I don't know. A task force operating at the state's attorney's office, the MUP, is talking about the possible rapes of 187 people. I'd be an irresponsible man to say it's a final number. For the time being, I repeat, it is certain that a war crime has been committed against 83 victims. And now the structure. The state's attorney's office found out about these victims by reporting a war crime rape against 38 victims, of course after a criminal investigation was conducted. 30 victims reported only criminal acts, other witnesses, eyewitnesses listed data on the work for 8 victims, and 7 victims were received from NGOs. Of the 83 victims, 60 victims testified about their rape, whether in front of the police, state attorney or court, 10 victims refused to testify. I think the reasons why these people refused to testify are understandable. It's been a long time, these people living, these women living with their families, and it's something that's personally unimaginable to me what kind of a situation it is now that some, what kind of peace that he's acquired, if he's ever gotten with it, comes out in front of his family. Compared to 43 victims, the State's Attorney's office ordered a reconnaissance. 5 people are under investigation, 18 people have been charged, 10 people have been convicted, 2 persons have been suspended, and one person has been convicted of an acquittal. All this information available to the State Attorney's Office was submitted to the Ministry of Defence for the purpose of drawing up the Law on the Protection of Victims of Sexual Violence in the War, and by letter dated 2 June 2014, the DORH submitted its observations and opinions to the Defence Ministry on the draft law. This raised the question of the relationship or co-operation of the contract between the Croatian State Attorney's Office and prosecutors in BiH, Republika Srpska, the special war crimes prosecutor's office in Serbia. I repeat, these are no interstate agreements. The evidence is generally, and the evidence is living people, those who have knowledge, the material evidence is here, it's our crimes, and we're the only one who's authorized to judge these crimes. But we have such a situation as we do, and the only way we can get any such data, other witnesses in the area of other states or documentation is to ask these state's attorneys, prosecutors to deliver that paperwork to us. I have to say that it goes successfully somewhere, it doesn't go anywhere, but I don't think it's good to interrupt cooperation, this kind of cooperation, because even one crime, even if we can identify one victim, I think we've done a lot already. Although I agree with you, this is a tragic situation that more than 20 years have passed and most of these crimes or many of these crimes, I will not say most of them, are not sanctioned. In principle, I would have to state and describe the role of the State's Attorney's Office over the entire course of the debate. First of all, let me say it right now, and I keep saying it, the State's Attorney's office is not a body of general supervision. It's not running away from responsibility, we're aware of our responsibilities, especially me, today, and before. But when we talk about bodies, it's not just the police, it's other bodies, it's the tax administration, so parts of the finance ministry. What about the inspection services? We didn't even talk today about the crime of default. Where fines, reports of labour inspection or whatever their name is, are irrelevant. They're gone. And this House has passed a bill that will sanction non-payment of salaries. The results are devastating. So the regulation needs to be changed. The state's attorney's office is a monocrat institution, but it is not a monocrat institution that the main state's attorney of the Republic of Croatia makes decisions in cases. He is obliged to ensure management, ensure the smooth work of the State Attorney's Office, seek and demand sufficient financial resources, propose amendments to the relevant laws so that the State's Attorney General can function and, of course, the attorney general as well as any state attorney has the right to give a mandatory instructions to the Deputy State Attorney to act in a specific case in writing. The deputy attorney general has the right to refuse to follow that direction if he considers the attorney general to be in violation of the law. The fact is, for the past 10 years, only one instruction in writing has been given. It was given by the attorney general and ordered that the criminal offence in the county court of Karlovac if I am not mistaken, if I am mistaken, I apologize, be qualified as a serious murder, not as a common murder. The deputy acted according to that mandatory instruction and the court is the verdict of the person for the crime of committing a serious murder. There are no manipulations. I told the deputies, i.e. state attorneys and deputies, about the State's attorneys clearly and loudly: your success is your success, but he is the success of the entire organization. Your failure is the failure of the organization and my failure. It is my job to determine the reasons for your failure, even though it requires and falls under legal responsibility, then a strict procedure will be launched. In this respect, of course, the deputy cannot be held accountable for the opinion given on the decision taken by the State. There must be a much higher level of that for us to determine that he committed a serious crime, and especially not a crime. So, let's simplify. If it's the intention, then the handcuffs are on the arm. If it's negligent, it's a shoe. And that's the only way we can function so everyone understands what his responsibility is, and I'm willing to answer for everything. But I ask others to answer for their part of the job. I've always talked about USKOK not Cvitan, not Bajic, but deputy directors or rather USKOK deputy directors are responsible for what they did. I've lived with them for eight and a half years, actually I worked there for 11 years, spent days and nights with them, and I know what these things look like. Here they mentioned the foundation of speculation whether it was a trade, but it is a clear institute that comes from Angolan law very effective and very effective. And I'm saying that the abuse of this institute liked it or not, it wasn't. Each one of you or the media or anyone who has the right to believe that someone should have been given one or another punishment. But on the other hand, that speculation can't be decided by the court, because who would be guessing with us, then there wouldn't be anything. Only in the case of operational action of HIPOCRAT where 364 persons are charged in one indictment. That procedure could not have been carried out by the accused council either. Where are you going to get 364 people in this country, 364 lawyers? What kind of courtroom is that supposed to look like? And exactly the institute of an agreement and a verdict under the agreement will allow the case to be completed I would say in record time. Now over 250 agreements have been concluded. But what's important in this case is that only in this case will it be taken away from almost 15 million kuna, which was never state money, and if the budget of the USKOK is 21 million kuna, then you can see when we're talking about the financial ratios. Work for the common good. It's a prison sentence. This should be treated as a prison sentence that is replaced by work for the common good. All trends in modern and European legislation indicate that such penalties are pronounced as well as conditional convictions and warning measures. I say again someone liked it or not. And one more thing is the term investigation, because often it's used as one coloroquial term. For me, the investigation is the start of a criminal trial, which is the power of a solution to an investigation by a state attorney. One is the investigation, therefore, of the fact that circumstances are established whether there is a reasonable doubt that an investigation would be initiated or that it is indeed an investigation after which a suspension or prosecution may follow. In the end, I beg you, Mr. Vice President, if I'm wrong, you're free to interrupt me. But I have to replicate even though it was not my intention for Mr. Vuksic. You asked Mr. Representative if he was hiding something. I'm telling you nothing's hiding. You were saying that the State's Attorney's Office is a political authority, and I'm telling you it's not a political body. You were talking about throwing dust in the eyes, I don't know who, when and why. You made a statement about how someone was protecting someone, and you also said that what they promised me was about these presidential elections. So it's like some campaign that qualify me as a calculator. Well, now, Mr. Vuksic, let me say mine, I have a chance. My mother didn't give birth to me as a state's chief attorney. The attorney general can be another minute, very important. I have an occupation. You said you didn't know how to do this job because you didn't do it, you can't do it because you're not qualified for it. But that you're going to muddle my cheek, and that's all I've got, that you're going to muddle my colleagues' work, and that's why I'm asking Mr. Vuksic to apologize publicly to me and all the colleagues who work at the State's Attorney's office. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87087	Chief State Attorney, this is an assembly, and according to the Rules of Procedure, a parliamentary representative can speak, state his opinion. It was an opinion in the debate and you experience it that way. And you had the opportunity to say or deny certain allegations from the pay phone, and I don't think there's any need to experience it in such a way with so many emotions, because it's not about personal qualifications, it's simply about the opinion of the State's Attorney's Office as I've experienced. Well, maybe for the future, that's how we discuss it, and now the replica of fellow Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87088	Dear State Attorney. First of all, I don't think I can apologize to you. First of all, I was talking about doing a lot of decent people in the State's Attorney's office, and that's what I was saying. First of all, if you hadn't typed or written so much then you'd have heard my speech. You have a copy of the speech, so look. First of all, I said I hope you won't be dragged in, because some of them are drawn in. I didn't say you were drawn in. I didn't say you were a calculator. You're a calculator now that you've been searching for how you're going to attack me and ask me for an apology. You say every once in a while whether someone likes it or not. I don't like a lot of what the DORH was doing. First of all I was saying I only mentioned you, personally addressed you only when it came to your promise to deal with the local sheriffs. The performance that you have now performed is a threat to the parliamentary representative and now I have even less confidence in you, because this is how I can expect you to be righteous or, as they say, don't talk too much in the House to set something up for you. What you've done is an insult to the MP, but that's your problem, that's not my problem. In many justice courts, the court participates in a settlement, in many judiciarys. You said you'd make the court? He participates, he is one of the meanings of those who participate in the settlement. That's what I was talking about. Working for the greater good, you say you should be treated as a prison sentence. Two hours in one day's prison, everyone would change that. And anyone would think twice about making some kind of criminal that could take him to prison and trade for who he is. I'm saying it goes to your soul, like this. Because first of all, what you were saying, I wasn't saying. So I'm going to send you a copy of my speech to see that at no point did I cloud your name, and in that context where you were saying it was a pure fiction.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87089	Thank you. I'm sure the attorney general will read the minutes carefully from the session. If you want to respond to a replica, you have a right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87090	Thank you very much. Just to say two hours a day in prison, I think it's crazy, but that's what it says in the law that passed this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87091	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later. I thank the attorney general, and I am convinced that within a year or when the report comes it will be with far more positive results than perhaps this. And I wish you successful work.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87092	We are going to the State Attorney's Office Report for the year 2013. The debate is closed. I give the vote the following conclusion: "A report on the work of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia for 2013. A year.". Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the report was passed with most votes, 98 for and 3 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87093	We continue with two legislative proposals of a united debate, as was the agreement of clubs. - Final proposal of the Law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding on the implementation of the Norwegian Financial Mechanism for the period 2009 to 2014 between the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Norway, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 704; - Final proposal of the Law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding on the implementation of the EEA Financial Mechanism for the period 2009 to 2014 between the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Norway, Iceland and the Principality of Liechtenstein, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 703; The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. With us is Deputy Minister of Regional Development and EU Funds Dr. Yaksha Pugliz. Here you go, Deputy, intro.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87094	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, for your honors and for your representatives. The Act confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Norway on the implementation of the Norwegian Financial Mechanism for the period 2009-2014 allows for its implementation in accordance with Article 141. The Constitution of the In April 2014, the Republic of Croatia joined the European Economic Area by signing an agreement on participation in the European Economic Area, thus becoming a 16-nation EU Member State with the possibility of using two financial mechanisms for the period 2009 to 2014. These are the Norwegian financial mechanism and the financial mechanism of the European Economic Area. The financial instruments of the European Economic Area contribute to reducing social and economic inequalities within the European Economic Area while at the same time strengthening bilateral cooperation between donor and beneficiary countries. For the period 2009-2014, donor countries singled out a total of 1.8 billion euros of which 804.6m euros were allocated under the Norwegian financial mechanism for 16 Member States. Under the Norwegian financial mechanism, the funds are available for the following areas: coal extraction and storage, green industry innovation, scholarship research, human and social development, justice and home affairs, and promotion of human work and tripartite dialogue. By signature of the Memorandum of Understanding for the implementation of the Norwegian Financial Mechanism on 29 April 2014 For the programming period from 1 July 2013 to 31 April 2014, the Republic of Croatia received an amount of €35.2 million for projects to be implemented between June 2014 and April 2017. In accordance with Article 5.4(1), Regulation implementing the Norwegian Financial Mechanism 2009-2014 The Republic of Croatia is obliged to co-finance that programme at least 15% of the total amount of the programme. The value provided for in the gift of the Kingdom of Norway to Croatia is 31.6 million kuna, the rest of the amount up to 35.2 goes for the purpose of financing the costs of participation of donor countries while the value of co-financing on the Croatian side is 5.16 million kuna. All financing costs shall be secured as regular appropriations for individual authorities of the state administration. Support is provided through three programming areas: decent work and tripartite dialogue with the aim of promoting human work and improving tripartite cooperation between organisations representing employers, workers, therefore trade unions and public authorities to support sustainable economic and social development. A project will be implemented in co-operation with the Association of Independent Trade Unions of Croatia. The second area selected is the Civil Society Support Programme with the aim of strengthening the development of civil society and improving the contribution to social justice, democracy and sustainable development, which will be implemented together with the allocation for NGOs within the framework of the second financial mechanism, the financial mechanism of the European Economic Area. The third selected programme is also a programme relating to capacity building and judicial co-operation with a view to a more effective judicial system. One project will be implemented with two sub-projects, which is co-operation with the European Council, the first sub-project. To strengthen the efficiency and professionalism of the Croatian judicial system, the aim of the project is to improve the way the file is processed by applying the tested methodology previously developed by the Council of Europe. The assessment of compliance and the management of court files with European standards will be tested in a court in Karlovac and will then, in accordance with the results, be introduced into all other courts as part of the overall reform of the judiciary. The second sub-project refers to the reconstruction of the Municipality Court building in Karlovac in order to increase the efficiency of the judiciary based on improved working conditions. In addition, a certain part of the funds is set, a very small part of the funds goes as technical assistance to state users, so the authorities of the Republic of Croatia that manage this financial mechanism and the bilateral relations fund at national level, is a fund aimed at strengthening Norway-Croatian relations. As regards the Law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Norway, Iceland and the Principality of Liechtenstein on the implementation of the financial mechanism of the European Economic Area, therefore, it is very much similar to the conclusions. I would point out that out of the total of those previously mentioned 1.8 billion euros for these two mechanisms on the mechanism relating to the European economic space, 993m euros, therefore something more than under the previous mechanism. Areas are also different from those in the case of a previously explained mechanism. So, acceptable areas for projects, here are environmental protection, climate change and renewable energy sources, civil society, human social development and the preservation of cultural heritage. Therefore, by signing a Memorandum of Understanding for the implementation of the European Economic Area Financial Mechanism of 29 April, Croatia has been made available to the Republic of Croatia with 38.3 million kuna. There is, of course, a Member State co-financing obligation here and at least 15%. In this case, co-financing is €6.65 million and €2.27 million will be provided by state administration bodies and €4.37 million City of Sibenik as the holder of one of the projects. Support is provided in two programming areas, which are a programme for NGOs with the aim of strengthening the development of civil society and improving the contribution to social justice, democracy and sustainable development. This programme strengthens social and economic integration at national, regional and regional level with 2 projects. One project is also the Navis, a centre for energy, energy, sea and nautical research and business innovation with a 1.7m-euro centre in Sibenik. Another project is integrated schools in Vukovar and Knin with the aim of restoring multiethnic communities after the ongoing conflicts and achieving a higher level of understanding, respect and cooperation between majority groups and minority groups, project holders are the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, and this project is worth 1.3m euros. A very small amount has been reserved for two other areas, which is therefore technical assistance to state users for the bodies managing the programme and the bilateral relations fund at national level, so the same meaning as the fund in the case of the previous mechanism. Where the group and minority groups are singled out, project holders are the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and this project is worth 1.3m euros. A very small amount has been reserved for two other areas, which is therefore technical assistance to state users for the bodies managing the programme and the bilateral relations fund at national level, so the same meaning as the fund in the case of the previous mechanism. Where a slightly smaller amount has been allocated, 200,000 euros for the development of bilateral co-operation. That's it, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87095	Thank you, Deputy Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of HDZ Representatives' Club Davor Bozinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87096	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, first of all, to clarify this is something to be supported. However, from this partial chronology that we have received under these laws, the memorandum raises several questions as to why it has waited this long? We are now in autumn 2014, the programme we are talking about in 2009-2014, of course Croatia was unable to apply, but when it did, so when it became a full member. However, some of the moves that have been made have shown that this issue has not been understood. For example, it states in the materials that the government has taken a position that, for a short period of time, these funds should be transferred for the next period and it was only later that it was realized that there was another party that had something to say about it. So the fact that we, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, have made a decision that, in the shortest time, this should be transferred for the next financial period, it obviously did not impress anyone in the EU because they have their own dynamics to do so. So, it's been lost by my estimate for a year, a year and a half because it's absolutely amazing to me that we can make a decision without consulting our partners before that, those who are working on this job to see what kind of decision we can make. Can Croatia wait, you did this, only after a year and a little more and now there is a period until 2017, and whether it does not diminish at all the fact that a certain period in the implementation of this is lost, that is, the time in which we could withdraw certain funds because these programs are not since yesterday or they have been invented since yesterday, especially the Navis Programmes in Sibenik have been spoken of for five years. And it's still on the site of your ministry that you're funding it, and we see that it's going to be financed from the financial mechanism of the European Economic Area. Why am I telling you this? I am telling you because it is obvious that the Member States of the European Economic Area, above all the financiers who need to give recognition and gratitude for the funds and for the commitment to invest funds that are not small and especially for our opportunities, we do not know anything about what you are doing for the next period, whether we will remain at this level of donation from Norway above all, there are, of course, Iceland and Liechtenstein, above all, Norway because if you see in that total division of these funds of the state which are also multiplely less than Croatia like Estonia, Lithuania, Latvia, Latvia get several times more money. Has this few years in which you have inadmissiblely negotiated this financial mechanism qualified us to increase this amount for the next period of the financial mechanism for Croatia, I'm not sure, I'd like to be wrong. But anyway, we're missing that information. We are now at the end of the financial period 2009-2014.At this moment, we are certainly discussing the allocations from this mechanism for the countries that applied. This is one of the few opportunities that we can talk about, at this point we don't know if we're applying, how many programs, how many projects, because there's no money being shared by hand and hat, which are projects. The ones you mentioned are like I said for years in circulation. What is your position in the talks and positioning of Croatia for the withdrawal of most of the funds during the next period of the financial mechanism, and I think that is what the representatives of the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public are interested in at the moment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87097	Thank you, too. On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87098	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's how Bozinović said he gave me the idea exactly because I read and read this material about these two legal proposals and it wasn't quite clear to me at all. So it's 2009-2014, and here's the end of 2014 we adopt it, and now I don't understand how these money will eventually be transferred, and "the gift horse is not seen in the teeth", so the People's Proverbs says, so it's clear that any such law that the Republic of Croatia, regardless of the height spoken of by Mr. and Deputy Minister and Mr. Bozinović, should not be very critical of that. But given the situation and the explanations that followed, given the other countries and their experiences in relation to the European Economic Area, let me say in some ways a donation from the countries of the Kingdom of Norway, the Principality of Liechtenstein and Iceland which is still considering whether to become a member of the EU or not, and the funds we have here and there, we see that the Kingdom of Norway is fairly involved in the Republic of Croatia with the funds it provides for those purposes that Mr Puljiz spoke about. In any case, it is good that these funds, in April you said or may be spoken, and that they will be used until 2017 so from 2014 to 2017 that they will be used for local self-government units will benefit from this. There was talk of Sibenik, Vukovar, Knino, Carlovec, so every euro or kuna that comes into those environments, and here is when we namely list those places you were talking about, these funds are really necessary, every kuna, every lip. That is why the HDSSB club will, of course, be in favour of implementing this law, but it is precisely from that first sentence that I said was not clear to me at all, I read and read in 2009-2014 in May and signed. In October, so we're adopting this law here and in three months Christmas and less than three months past Grandma with cookies, it's past the deadline. But that's how it was achieved and saved, and I know how much was missed by the agreement for our Mandarins on Russia's embargoes, and then from the funds that were still in pre-accession demining funds when Croatia didn't even apply for certain funds that the EU had allocated for demining rather than someone who found himself in Brussels remembered the last day, saw if we could do it, so Slavonia and Baranja got some money to demining. So if I say a little sloppyness, I don't mean it literally or as they say literally, but that's one word that could be used in this case, and when we listen to your minister, our minister, excuse me, because our government, about how to attract funds from structural, cohesion and all other funds, then it's not exactly what these two legislative proposals say best. In any case, I say "a gift horse is not seen in the teeth" so we're going to adopt these two legal proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87099	Thank you, too. And the final word of the Deputy Minister. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87100	I just have to briefly look back at these findings to understand the chronology of events. So this is really about the presents. So these are another kind of funds that are available to Croatia. But I must stress, therefore, that the programming period for these mechanisms is 2009/2014. Croatia has become a member country 1.7.2013. So Croatia hunted the last train to participate in this programme and caught it. The negotiations of the Republic of Croatia for your information and the Kingdom of Norway and other countries lasted record fast, unrepeatedly fast. So, if you want to verify more detailed information best to see with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Norway in which the speed and efficiency of these negotiations are carried out. What was interesting to see was recently at a seminar where all the member states found themselves to discuss how the implementation was held, it was shown that Croatia that entered in the last year, in the last year of this financial mechanism when we talk about this 2009/2014. The period is very practically in the same position as one good part of the countries. Some are forwards, but these are countries that had the mechanism at their disposal in 2009. As regards the negotiations themselves, the negotiations on the amount of alllocation were conducted by the European Union's external services, i.e. the European Commission for Croatia. Croatia could only observe and make arguments to get the largest amount of allotment there. Allocation rose from an initial 5.6m euros to 9.6m euros for a period of just one year. So, what Croatia has received at its disposal corresponds only to the number of months we had as a Member State the right to use during this financial period, which is from July 2013 to the end of 2014. So we've also voted on a very high amount of funds. As for the signing of the agreement, it couldn't have gone any faster. Of course, this is the case and we were looking for projects that will be as ready as possible, because these are projects that have to be completed by the end of 2017, because we have fought one more thing in these negotiations, which is that Croatia is the only one that has one year more available for the implementation of the projects. So, all other countries have until 2016. Croatia has until 2017 and this is the same result of our negotiations. Here's to information only.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87101	Thank you. We have one replica, colleague Davor Bozinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87102	Well, Deputy Minister, you have skillfully avoided answering these precise questions regarding what you are doing for the next period of the financial mechanism. I hope it will remain in your head and then in some other way inform the Croatian public about it. Also, you said you weren't having negotiations and you couldn't influence it, but you did, so that contradiction doesn't sit in my seat at all. If you stay with that first finding that you can't influence something, you know there are us who are and on this side of your assembly of people who know that it can always be influenced, it can always be influenced no matter who conducted the negotiations on your behalf. I'm staying with what you put and wrote in these materials. You wrote that it became clear during the negotiations that the European Commission will not agree to what is the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and it is in no way clear to me that we are adopting a position in which there are at least a few more participants without talking to them. The fact you're talking about is 1.7.2013. However, I remind you of the period until then. It's a year and a half when you're supposed to, at least the public assumed you were preparing for what would come, and that didn't stop you from having diplomatic contacts on that issue. Because it was quite clear that it was going to be 1.7.2013. The Republic of Croatia becomes a member. So these are the contradictions. I bring them out here first of all so that they will not repeat themselves in the future and it is important to ask how much alocation for Croatia will be in the next period, because it is important for others as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87103	Thank you. Replication response, Deputy Minister Jaksha Puljiz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87104	So let's just be clear. He's negotiating two things. The first thing is the amount of allocation and this is being negotiated by the external services of the European Commission on behalf of the Member States. So, that first part of the negotiations is in the hands of the European Commission, and of course we are giving maximum arguments to get the best we can, to fight the best position around the amount of alocation. Another type of negotiations is what the funds will be spent on. This type of negotiations lasted up to two years for other member states. That is why those who started the process in 2009 are now in almost the same position as the Republic of Croatia, because they spent two years on negotiations with, above all, the Kingdom of Norway on where the funds will be invested. We are therefore the European Commission has concluded negotiations with the Kingdom of Norway and other Member States in January 2014 on the amount, and we have concluded negotiations with the Kingdom of Norway and the Member States on the area of investment in April within three months. That's what we're trying to tell you, which is why it was record fast and efficient. And therefore you can have strong confidence that in a new round of negotiations that will take place only when the European Commission and the Kingdom of Norway agree first and foremost on the amount and some basic frameworks for the use of funds in the new perspective, because it is not possible for us to agree for a year now on the amount that the extreme Norway and other countries will provide, nor on some basic principles such as which countries will be able to use, but once the agreements are agreed, you can be sure that these negotiations on the Croatian side will be carried out as effectively as they were.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87105	Thank you, Deputy Minister. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later. We'll stop working now. We'll continue tomorrow with the proposal for a law on agricultural land membership, first reading, P.Z. No. 687. Thank you, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-01-0.u87106	We move to the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding on the Implementation of the Norwegian Financial Mechanism for the period 2009 to 2014, between the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Norway, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 704. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find it unanimous with 102 votes for the adopted law P.Z. No. 704.
