ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91905	My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good day and we will continue our work. We will discuss - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 727 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Labour, the Pension System and the Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session, and the introduction of the bill will be explained by Finance Minister Boris Lalovac. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91906	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here you are today under the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Tax Act. The main essentials of the amendments to the law is that it proposes to change the increase of personal deductions from 2200 to 2600 kuna, for pensioners to increase personal deductions from 3400 kuna to 3800 kuna and for personal deductions for citizens working in assisted areas from 3200 kuna to 3500 kuna, and for the second group from 2700 to 3000 kuna, and to prescribe a change of tax rate of 40% above 13.200 kuna on the tax base. Why did the Government decide to change the part of the Income Tax Act? In fact, a number of analyses have shown that income tax as one of the measures of competitiveness of the economy, i.e. labour prices were shown when and when talking to investors and talks with, compared with our competing countries, that the labour price today is one of the most important, if not the most important key criterion of attracting investment. During the analysis and comparison of income between the Republic of Croatia and our neighbouring countries, there are data that clearly indicate that income, not only, which is only one part of the gross labour price burden, is that Croatia is quite uncompetitive in this way. In short, I will only present income tax rates in the EU countries and the environment to only see the ratio where Croatia is and how much Croatian workers actually pay a variety of tax on their work. The country in the environment, Montenegro has 9%, BiH 10%, Serbia 10%, Macedonia 10%, I'm talking about the above rate that taxes labour, Macedonia 10%, countries in the EU, Bulgaria 10%, the Czech Republic 15%, Lithuania 15%, Romania 16%, Hungary 16%, Estonia 21%, Latvia 24%, Slovakia 25%, Poland 32%. These are all really marginal highest rates. Some countries have... as only one rate per income, while many other countries and this highest rate they have, have a much lower rate than the Republic of Croatia. Those countries that have a 40% rate, meaning that they have a higher rate than 40% on the job, pay extremely high income, but above very high levels, so Italy pays 43% of their income per year, but only above 75 thousand euros per year. Slovenia 50%, though they have a higher margin rate than Croatia, but also above 70,000 euros annually. Austria 50% above 60,000 euros a year. And then we come to Croatia paying 40% over 14000 euros a year, which means that not only do we have a very high income tax rate, but we tax it at a very low level, but somewhere at 1200 euros is actually taxed with a marginal rate of 40%. Whom this would affect and what effect would be on the whole of the person who is being used and the person who is being financed from that part. The 40% income tax means who pays this rate that we have said the marginal rate of 40%, the highest pay in the private sector is as much as 75% of the total number of citizens who work and who are taxed at 40% is in the private sector, and the public sector is participating with 25%. Now the question is who in the private sector is being taxed with a 40% rate. Most of them are companies in the processing industry, in export-oriented industries, high-tech industries, so those countries that are competitive that they can sell their products outside. It happens to us that for a long time and numerous seats of international multinational financial corporations simply bypass Croatia and create their own centres in our neighbouring countries Hungary, Serbia, BiH, Romania and other countries, it is precisely one of the very high taxation of this income, which is just one of the ways of taxing work, if you know that we pay a total of 17.2% in total and on health as one package and 20% in the pension system. So the average salary in Croatia has already been taxed over 100%, is it when you watch how much they pay the businessmen, how much the entrepreneurs pay in relation to what the citizens receive? Unfortunately, we have a situation where private businessmen pay very little, and on the other hand, workers take very little money. Who would all this affect? So this part of the change in income tax would certainly have the most impact on over a million workers in the Republic of Croatia to feel a slightly higher salary increase. For the first time precisely because of the increase in personal deduction, the minimum gross salary would be non-taxable. In short, I'd just like to give you some projections as to how much this would apply to gross wages, for example. of 5 thousand kunas and how much would that relate to a gross salary of 8 thousand kuna. At a gross salary of 5 thousand kuna where an average personal deduction of 1.5 would be used, so you have a member of the state tax and the tax tax is now paid at 13 kuna, and now 94 kuna is paid. There's been a lot of talk about how these are now increasing the salaries of the rich, and actually the poor don't get much. The reason is, unfortunately, those who have low wages now I've said on gross salary about five thousand kunas that's net about three thousand and 800, three thousand and 900, they're paying 94 kuna today. If these changes were accepted they would pay 13 kuna tomorrow and therefore cannot be disbursed anymore because in this part that salary would be fully disbursed as regards income, which means that the net salary would increase by 81 kuna or annually by 972 kuna. If you took an average salary in Croatia of around 8 thousand kuna, it is an average gross personal deduction of 1.5, tax and taxes now would be paid 379 kuna, and now 547 kuna is paid. means the average salary in Croatia is that given by the DZS by about 5 thousand 500 kuna. The net salary would increase by 168 kuna or an annual increase of around 2 thousand and 16 kuna. Since this is the largest share related to income in that part of the largest impact would have had since the largest part of this was financed by the local community, most of the impact on income would certainly have units of local self-government and that is somewhere around 1.8 billion kuna, and most of the impact would apply to those who have the most affected by the tax rate of 40%, these are certainly larger cities. Other amendments to the law will propose certain changes in the percentage rates of units of local self-government shares in total revenues so that this is one set of laws that will be discussed here next week and that law will be here for discussion. These changes in income tax are also proposed to change the tax on capital income in such a way that, from 1.1.2015, they tax interest on savings at a rate of 12%, and to tax on capital gains on financial assets means income from the establishment of securities and shares in trading companies over a three-year period of 12% in order to equalise income and capital taxation. At the same time, the use of reliefs for dividends is lifted, shares in profits up to 12,000 kuna. So in this part, there would be no relief either by dividends or by this part of the capital gains or by interest on savings. In order to look at the income distribution and the distribution of capital income and the fact that 1% of the population of the Republic of Croatia means about 50,000 of them have deposits in 75 billion kuna commercial banks and that they are not taxed with any kuna, and that some of the work is unfortunately lacking in labour force in Croatia, we lack labour activities, we lack opportunities to work. And I believe that there wouldn't be any problem if today with a million and 200 or a million and 300 thousand people who work increased the number of employees per million and a half and then probably wouldn't have any problems in the health system either, we probably wouldn't have that many problems with the financing of local self-government units. Because this is exactly the way in which income is set up opens up the possibility of new employment, opens up the possibility of reducing tax burdens for citizens and gives the opportunity to encourage one of the instruments to encourage employment. As far as capital income is concerned, we were just saying that 50 000 of them make out of interest a year, 2.3 billion kuna, and those with these new changes would no longer make 2.3 billion kunas but make 2 billion kunas. So nothing dramatic would happen in this distribution, which unfortunately in 23 years in Croatia is so obvious, so much inequality, that you have data that 1% of citizens hold 10 billion euros, and 150,000 citizens don't even have 10,000 kunas that they can settle their obligations to be carried out. And these are inequalities that, no matter what they say about the past, which we had when we had the rates of economic growth that have now exploded, they didn't arise in the last year or two years of office, but these are the inequalities that we accumulated as a society, as a community, probably and let's say some worse economic moves in the past. Because you have 150,000 citizens who don't have 10,000 kunas, and you have 1% and 50,000 of them that have 75 billion. And then it's not a problem if this 1% if there were 75 billion came from innovative companies, from companies that had opened up in Croatia and Google and facebook and many innovative companies, if they had created them and created economic activities then today would not have had an economic downturn of 6 years, from around 15% to 20% of gross domestic values, but probably would have companies that were export-oriented, not only on the export of services but on the export of goods. However, these accumulations, inequalities are noticeable in Croatian society and someone who already has about 8,000 kuna salaries say that unfortunately we are short of work, we are short of hiring young people, we are short of talking about how to encourage employment and how to talk about income because these are the incomes of each of us and of our citizens, how to relieve them in 6 years of crisis because it is simply 6 years of crisis that it is too long to talk about income and not talk about inequalities that have accumulated and certainly not talk about taxing those who have more money and to contribute to that distribution of inequality at least somewhat reduced. Also, taxation of capital gains goes only since 2016, but it goes for purchases and sales of securities only when they were bought then. So everything you have in your existing portfolio won't be, except for taxation. So only if you buy a certain value, a certain share, means from 2016 and if you actually sell it within a period of 3 years then only within that period will it be consumed with a tax rate of 12%. Just an example to tell you. Slovenia has that you can't within 20 years, so you've brought that part of taxation, so you can't just sell a much wider horizon, we've put a three-year horizon, so if you hold that investment longer, or other words of long-term investment, and this won't be taxed, but speculating with securities, speculation with shares will be taxed at a rate of 12%. Let's just see how uncompetitive Croatia would be with these changes, or competitive compared to neighbouring countries. We're talking about taxation of 12% interest, the question is whether today we're going to make a decision that this is an appropriate rate if we know, for example. That he's in the next one, for example. Italy 20, Slovenia also 20, Austria 25, in many other countries of European 30, 35%, in some countries 40 or 50% in Scandinavian countries, Croatia and with this part has the lowest income tax rate of capital and certainly capital gains. What is also important to say is that in these amendments a special procedure for determining the annual tax obligation is prescribed in a way that starts from the year of application for 2015, means citizens who will register their income in 2015, in 2016 the Tax Administration will make a solution for them. So we will no longer have those long waitings when handing over taxes and applying annual taxes so that in that part of the administration, in a more efficient way, all these data will be processed and the Tax Administration will make solutions and deliver them to the address of the citizens, thereby eliminating the need to submit annual tax returns. So all these changes made in this opening statement will certainly have a positive impact on at least a small part of the citizen's income. Whether it will increase consumption, probably, maybe it will, maybe it won't, it wasn't the main goal of actually making tax changes in the economic model exclusively to encourage consumption, because we know that it is 60% of the total GDP. However, it is certainly the goal of leaving to citizens in the sixth year of the crisis, you know that since 2009 it is very difficult to live and that every kuna that we can leave it with these changes and income tax supplements to our citizens, I hope that you will continue to support today and in your debate that you will support this government's direction of disbursement of citizens' salaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91907	Thank you very much. Before we move on to the replicas to discuss today's work. Since we have a large set of laws that we have to do before the debate on the state budget, so these are all tax laws next week before the debate we have to do and a few more laws regarding regional development are going to be working today by 23.00 hours, so take care of maybe a little bit of the time debate. Now we'll move on to the replicas. Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91908	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, the Prime Minister and you said that this salary increase due to income tax cuts will not apply to government officials and public administration employees. Although you are still warned and asked how you will do so is very interesting that no one is talking about it anymore. And me, this isn't any demagogy. I don't think we parliamentarians need to raise the salary for that amount for a million and one reason. The second thing is that Croatia is constantly talking about high tax burdens, which is simply not true. Here, let's get the salary, income of 6,000 kuna. With one dependent member of the family, the tax falls out somewhere around 200 kuna and the pension and health benefits 2040 kuna. When you add it together, your tax burden is 10%. However, a heavy burden with contributions to pension and health. At the same time, when we look at the state budget and we see what should be financed from the contribution to creating a deficit at an annual level of 22 billion kuna, then I think we keep shooting at the wrong target. And another thing. We cannot let various hohstapplers tell us that Croatia has a 40% income tax and is among the highest in the world. Let's see how many people pay that rate. Just like it used to be that 45% rate that only affected about 2 and a half thousand taxpayers. It's another thing. It should also be said that, unfortunately, at this point in Croatia, there are about 450,000 employees who do not even have a grip on the shears. So these are questions. I say we speak, remember Mr. Minister and you and the Prime Minister that this salary increase, which due to the salary level, is mostly about state officials, the biggest increase, and it also won't apply to 250,000 employees in the state administration. It's just a warning that you can't give yourself lightly populist statements, then later you don't know how you're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91909	Replication response, Minister Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91910	Thank you. Yeah, that's what we're working on. So we're still looking for a model in which way, whether it's going to be a change of coefficient or a base or we're going to bring some other model. But what the government has said is that this part will not apply to the state officials we are working on, and very soon an instrument will come to the government in which it will be done. And this other thing you said, that if you think very few people are at a rate of 40%, then there won't be any and actually a reduction in the incomes of local self-government units. So if there are no people we tax with that part, then there will be no cuts in their incomes. But there's certainly a lot less of them. You are right that unfortunately most of the income in the Republic of Croatia is in the range of between 3 and 3 and 3 and 4000 kuna and that there is the largest part if you use a personal deduction that these salaries are, so we said that on the lowest part of the salary and you do not pay a large tax, that if you have a personal deduction on them you will not even be used. But we certainly believe that no matter what, I say whoever thinks about this government move, we feel that it is necessary and at least in one part to relieve income and 100 or 200 kuna that it means to Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91911	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91912	Honorable Minister, you may not be the right address for this, but you're the one who encouraged me by your debate. The end of you should certainly sit with the prime minister who would give us answers to some questions, because all we talk about today is about the government and the government's failure. You said one sentence to the economy pay very much, the workers get very little, and that's true. That's good analysis. But what made it not so? What was done in three years not to be like that? Expensive states, and reforms are gone, too expensive a country. No reforms have been carried out. And these are fire measures and what we discussed yesterday about budget rebalancing, so also one fire strike that won't give much of a big effect at the end. You said there should be a million and a half employees. Then there wouldn't be a problem with pensions, and there wouldn't be any health insurance. And that's right. But we know Plan 21 has been said right in Plan 21 that there will be no pay from which to pay. But not to be paid, but to pay for these. That's what you said yourself because they're small, and the employees haven't increased the number of employees. Well, then and when we talk about this law, we're talking about another government failure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91913	The answer to the replica? Yeah. Minister Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91914	Thank you, Madam Vice President, dear colleague. Yes, great inequalities are present in society, and you can see in this part of us today that we have capital that no one is taxing, and on the other hand we have very little work that we're terribly taxing. And that's when you see the country's total tax revenues as being the most relevant to consumption, it means between 40 and 50 billion if we have 40 VAT plus other excise fees 50 billion total if we tax consumption and when we take the total let's say taxing work through pension, health and this part of income, that's an extra 50 billion. In Croatia, consumption is taxed with 100 billion and 105 total consumption and labour. Capital, that part if he was supposed to be in a capital function I say unfortunately we miss him but that's why we went with reinvested profits and he should be an incentive for growth and economic activity. For a long time, however, the capital was not taxed. With this he will not escape, he can flee to another country, what will happen to him? He'll be even more taxed. If they want to go to Austria, if they want to go, depending on where they pay, by residence or by source, he can take the money out but will be taxed with 30%. So Europe also recognized that it is uncompetitive because of high labour taxation when we look globally at Latin America and Asia. And these measures that the European Commission is doing to reduce labour taxation, and a little more taxation of capital is actually the direction the Croatian government is heading.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91915	Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91916	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister, you said yourself that some are visiting investors of the Republic of Croatia. Now that we've probably passed this law tomorrow, everyone will be running to Croatia. I wouldn't agree with you. Often changes in tax policy are currently causing mistrust in the government of the Republic of Croatia and in our tax system. This is one of the reasons why investors visit Croatia. But when it comes to this change, those who have and who do not have will lose. Because of price increases, the price of municipal services will rise and the consumer basket will be reduced precisely by those who have the lowest wage or do not work at all. Because with today's taking nearly 2 billion kunas to local administration units, there will be a new spiral, an increase in prices and an increase in inflation. What you should have done and compared when it comes to VAT, it had to be reduced which would lead to an increase in consumption. Because just looking at the environment, looking at neighbouring countries, don't even look at BiH, Serbia, look at one Germany with 19%, Belgium with 21%, Bulgaria with 20%, Austria with 20%, Slovakia with 20% VAT, etc., etc. We have to compare with them. Our goal must also be maximum employment, and we are just uncompetitive, overpriced and centralized, we have no reforms. But when I look at today that you said that maybe this will lead to an increase in consumption, and maybe it won't, so it's the same as when we watch the weather forecast and they tell us tomorrow it might shine the sun, and maybe it won't. But we are absolutely against the growth of salaries to Prime Minister Milanovic, Mr Greece, the Croatian government and to our parliamentary representatives. In times of crisis, this is not realistic and it should not be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91917	Replication response, Minister Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91918	Thank you very much. Yes, that's what I was saying in the introduction, and I said that it would not raise salaries to either the prime minister or the ministers or the state officials and that we were looking for a mechanism whether it would be through a regulation or a coefficient or a basis to get rid of that part. When you say whether to choose VAT or income tax, income tax is a direct tax and it directly affects pay means every month you can directly calculate how much kuna will remain in each Croatian citizen's pocket. As far as VAT is concerned, you know that it is an indirect tax and that the government and when it reduced the indirect VAT tax to a 25% discount, you know that there has been no price reduction. So there was no price reduction, but only that difference that was reduced actually increased by some part of the margins. In this way, it is directly affected by every pocket of Croatian citizens, and in this way we believe that there will be a certain effect. That's why I'm saying, since, if it's going to affect consumption, it might also affect citizens' deleveraging, because I told you that, so I fenced whether or not it's going to affect, it's hard to determine. It may affect a part of the increase in consumption but can also affect the deleveraging of citizens, those blocked citizens who simply don't have the money or pay for basic directories. So it doesn't have to mean that it will only affect the increase in consumption but can mean that citizens can at least settle their share of debt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91919	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91920	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, you've kind of asked yourself as a subject and the question of who will actually be affected by the changes to this tax. Then you mentioned over a million employees, especially in the manufacturing and processing industry. If we know that the processing industry is very low, then we can manipulate the average very easily. We can say that out of 10 people 9 people get the salary of 3000 kuna, and 1 gets 15 000, the average is 4200. And it looks very nice. But this law obviously has something else in mind, it has another plan. For those who receive higher wages he will contribute, he will get even more. Those who have low wages will almost feel nothing. I'd like to ask you to explain a little more, give me some more information. How many of those million employees have those with salaries of up to 3,000 kuna? How many of those with salaries over $15,000? How many of those with the salaries you mentioned 5000 kuna? Not on average, but in categories, so let's see which layer of citizens and employees this tax will have the best impact on, that is, on whom it will have the smallest impact. I'm afraid we're playing with the averages that are breaking up society again. They give more to those who have more, and those who need it most, they get nothing. And we're throwing fog that's gonna be very good for all the employees. So I'm asking for those additional clarifications.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91921	Replication response, Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91922	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Yeah, you can get very detailed. So now we have two sources of data. One of the data sources means that we are not talking about averages because certainly the average salary in Croatia when taken as an arithmetical environment is 5500 kuna. However, most of the class in that pool, the largest part according to IP patterns is between 3 and 4 thousand kunas. In that part, up to 4 thousand kunas are also very large for those who have a minimum wage. When you asked how many people have gross wages, how much gross wages they have in certain classes greater than 14 thousand kunas, so that's where we talk about this net salary between 7 and 8 thousand kuna, there are 77,000 Croatian citizens. And a gross salary greater than 40,000, this is about the JOP patterns, so we're not talking about arithmetical environments, but we're talking about a monthly pattern that actually was handed over by entrepreneurs during the salary processing process, so there were about 1 million and 300 thousand of those who handed over the salary during this period that was in 6 months. Gross salary of more than 40,000 kuna, so that's kind of a net of around 20,000 kuna, there are 3500 Croatian citizens, 3500 Croatian citizens have a salary greater than 20 thousand kuna. Which means that we also have a very poor distribution of salaries in the Republic of Croatia. We have a very large share in that class of 2, 3, 4 thousand, and a very small part, then actually a small part is between the salary of these 14 thousand kunas, so somewhere 7 thousand nets. And in those high-class classes, we're actually taxing very little too now, probably because they pay most of their salaries through profits or pay off certain dividends.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91923	Frano Matušić replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91924	Thank you. Mr. Minister, it is difficult to take the impression that it is a purely populist move for pre-election purposes that prevails in the Croatian public. Namely, you should have said when you were already doing the projection and you said how much those with the lowest wages would get, so you said it was actually 70 kuna a month, so you said those who get the average gross salary that will get around 170, 180 kuna a month, but you didn't move on. You were supposed to tell me how much this projection of yours will give those who have a salary of 13,000 kuna? You were supposed to get him a thousand and something kuna a month, which means he gets 12, 13 thousand kuna a year. Which means that, clearly, the consequence of this law is that those who get the least now will pay that they will get the least, and those who get the most that they will get the most. That's how Superhik worked at Alan Ford, so read Alan Ford, and you'll see what Superhik was doing, and that's how you behave today. At the same time, you'll destroy local self-government units, especially the smallest ones. And you take it exactly, not yours, not the state, but the incomes of the local self-government units. And why, for example, you're not. Reduced and relaxed VAT? VAT citizens pay in everything, in all services, in all products they buy, etc. So they pay that VAT. Why didn't you cut the VAT by 5, 6, 7%, why didn't you relax that part? What's the reason? So it's just that there's really a hidden desire to obviously help the units of local self-government and destroy the system that exists today, which is why we can only guess.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91925	Minister Boris Lalovec's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91926	Thank you, Madam Vice President. To have a very interesting thesis to destroy the local community and take it from the local community. The problem is who he's taking from. Is the local community actually taking that part of the money from the citizens, not taking citizens from the local community their incomes. The local community, i.e. the state, central state, tax administration or in the central state, takes and from citizens, means we take from citizens, not take, and the central state takes from citizens in terms of VAT, and the local community takes from citizens. So whoever he's taking from, I think it's very clear and set up to actually always take the administration from the citizens. And as for the fact that you said it was a populist move, so you need to know the tax calculations and then see that what I said is that whoever has those salaries, 94 kuna, is paying 13 kuna today, you can't even help him anymore because he doesn't actually pay that income anymore. And let's say that he has a thousand kunas in salary, he's now paying 3,000 kunas, 3,000 kunas in incomes, you pay, and we're all here paying 3 to 4000 kuna in income taxes, only he's going to pay him, so you're paying a lot and now you're paying very low wages. That's what we're talking about. So you've completely turned the thesis, so citizens are very much in those salaries, which we don't think are rich, we don't think that the rich with 8 thousand kunas are net, very much now pay income, look at the pay-list and see that you're paying 4 thousand kuna income. And now, instead of those four thousand kunas, you're going to pay three thousand. We're not saying that today we're with these salaries that we're rich people. We are above the average of Croatia but very much on this salary, very much of this income is taken. The ones on the lower salary simply no longer and you can't.../The speaker turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91927	Branko Bacic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91928	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr Minister, you transfer a part of the burden to local self-government units, i.e. cities, municipalities and counties, these amendments to the Income Tax Act. So, now this breaks over their budget and the state will, although this law will allow for the increase of salaries for employees in Croatia, for those who have low salaries, for those who have higher salaries something more, but the question on the other hand will actually be whether they will be in the final... Because as the associations of cities, municipalities and counties tell you, this amendment to the law on the other hand will encourage an increase in municipal fees, the price of kindergartens, etc. etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it is questionable whether with this reform we will enable and raise the standard of citizens, it is very questionable. If the government wanted to help the citizens in full and not to increase the services, I am now asking why the compensation measures that you introduce to these laws that we are going to discuss in part next week have not fully compensated those 2 billion kunas without which this amendment will remain units of local and regional self-government? It is justified to ask the question, if you have already made it possible for a 3% share of total taxes now to increase to units of local self-government, then why the new tax that we are introducing by this law, which is a tax on, or interest on savings, we have not left to local self-government units until the amount that these 2 billion kunas, which, without which local self-government units will remain, are now rerouted to these same units of local self-government. So, if the government wanted to help the citizens, then that amount of 2 billion that now takes away the units of local self-government by amending the law was supposed to be compensated for them, and that way we would probably get an increase...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91929	Thank you. Replication response, Minister Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91930	I appreciate the question. Here, some numbers again and let's talk about it. So whose back is actually being broken now, does this crisis break on the back of citizens and does this crisis break on the back of a local self-government unit? In 2007, the total number of employees in local self-government, meaning the start of the crisis, 35 thousand 311. In 2013, GDP falls 15%, we lose over 150 thousand jobs, we lose over 100 billion kuna income in the economy, we lose competitiveness, we lose that we cannot employ construction, 35 thousand 311 employees in local self-government units, on this day 42 thousand 392 employees. Costs for employees in the same team of bodies that were in the time of the six-year crisis, the decline in the economic activities of workers who cannot find their jobs, which are on the stock market, wages are increasing from a billion to 600, to 2 billion and 100. Costs for employees of those who work, which you said today would increase prices from 2.1 billion to 2.6 billion kuna. Let it explain to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia why they will raise prices if the number of employees and the number of salaries, in... will actually be over. So now I ask the question, who's in this crisis? Whose back does this six-year crisis actually break? Does this figure I gave you today mean to the units of local self-government who in the first six months were in plus a billion kuna and it's good that they're in plus, but when we're trying to say that one part of the income should be left to the citizens because the citizens have lost more than 150 thousand jobs and are having a hard time getting jobs, and then we can't find a consensus, but I'm asking whose back is actually this fracture crisis? Most unfortunately, on the back of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91931	Franjo Lucic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91932	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I disagree. I also wanted to talk about it, your data is incorrect. First of all, I'd like you to present information on how many people you hired three years ago, how many were employed by the state administration, and how many are there today? That would be fair if you spoke to the public. I come from Požega-Slavon County, from the local self-government unit, but not only from my unit of local self-government, but from all units of local self-government, including regionals belonging to Požeko-Slavon County, I am responsible for saying that there are no more employees than the past seven years. I'd like you to present the information and tell me what units of local self-government have significantly increased the number of employees. You, Mr. Minister, are about to, and of course as colleagues here and replicate, new jobs that were obtained in local self-government units have also requested an increase in the number of employees. And you at the state level absolutely have no reason to increase, and you have significantly increased the number of employees. And the new 2 billion kunas you're going to take from us, that's just another proof that you at the state level are only thinking about how to deploy your burden to local self-government units that are simply going to disappear. My units of local self-government in Požega-Slavon County will disappear in a very short time. I'll tell you, only the city of Požega will lose 4 million kuna in 2015, and my city of Pleternica, which employs 8 people, will run out of 500 thousand kuna, and every year they invest 50 million kuna, but from EU funds, not loans and not new duties, Mr. Minister. You don't have the right math in your ministry. Examine yourself and the public service first.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91933	Thank you. Replication response, Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91934	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Yeah, I'm not going to answer that way about regularity, but I'm the only one asking whose citizens are going to get that income increase? Well, citizens in your area. So, the citizens of Pleternica, the citizens of Požega, they'll get more income. It'll get a bigger income. So we're talking about citizens in these areas getting more income. If you're against getting your citizens in the area, then feel free to say yes, we're against our citizens in the area getting more income. No problem at all. We're saying every time it's said how much money the administration needs. It's been said all along, how much money the administration needs, and then we've defined how much it takes from the citizens. It's always because the administration always needs money. It always takes, for a project like this, for a project like this, for this, for that. We try all the time to say that these money that is now being lost, which will be partly re-scheduled to other sources of income, that other money can be found in EU funds and these people who have said that they are hiring on EU funds, I ask the question where do they come from financing from the Croatian tax? If they can be financed from EU funds. Why did you say you got new jobs in EU funds, why are they being financed from taxes? Why are they funding them from citizens' incomes, not from EU projects, because there are these funds, because they need to be able to take that money.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91935	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91936	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, it would be good if you knew how it was arranged by the government's decision that units of local self-government and their employees could only finance 20% of their income and that they couldn't be more employees than the income of the local self-government unit. It was regulated by the government regulation and all units of local self-government framed in the government's regulation. Your reduction, i.e. Another measure that has actually missed a measure already at the beginning as visible when all the cities, municipalities, communities of these cities, municipalities and counties tell you openly that it is not good, you force as well as that reduction for health insurance of 2% that has not received any results. And so this measure will not help anyone, and it will harm all schools and health care facilities, and kindergartens, and there will not be enough money, nor will there be enough of them now, let alone worse situations. When you reduce this, when you reduce 2 million kunas in Virovitica-Podravska County in the city of Virovitica 3 million kuna and of course it will not be possible to finance if government decisions are to be respected or employment, more employees will have to be reduced even though they have already been reduced and put into frames that the government regulation has said. So you need to know that everything is arranged and that up to 20% of the income can be spent on salaries in units of local self-government you missed saying that in this High House and these citizens. You'll make an even bigger poverty in local self-government units than it is now. won't be for kindergarten financing, won't be for funding schools that part of the county as the founder of funding there won't be any new instruments and apparatus in hospitals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91937	The reply to the replica of Minister Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91938	Yes, it always communicates in this way when trying to make a certain tax discharge for Croatian citizens. There is always a lack of money for both schools and kindergartens, which is exactly how the demagogue attempts to open and sensitize the public. I just very simply will not support this law and should very clearly tell the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that you do not want to support the government's measure and thus try to help the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and that is your legitimate right and you do. I'm just talking about new figures all the time, citizens know local self-government units up to 30% above average, so I'm going to make it very clear to you in detail. If you don't believe in the figures of the Ministry of Finance, I'm afraid I can't help you here, but those figures delivered by the units of local self-government at the Ministry of Finance we'll just pass them on to each of the county's municipalities how much pay is the increase in the number of employees what the total cost of the apparatus is and that the citizens know where they finance it. I think we should talk about it so we don't have to be angry with each other and insult each other, but that we have to find the reasons whether the entire system of funding for local self-government is wrong to finance income. The local administration should be financed from property taxes that is a basic postulate, but property taxes should be financed from local administrations, and that central government cannot affect competitiveness because this part of the property tax has to be financed and so local government is financed in developed countries of property tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91939	Don't treat the minister that way. And you have no idea, do you? Zeljko Schamper, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91940	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, you spoke about the annual tax application, and the bill is also about Croatian and foreign pensions. These days I received a letter from a lady from Zagreb who has a Croatian pension of 1.070 kuna and HZMO each month suspends taxes and taxes of 151 kuna. It also has 1,650 kuna from Slovenia and 300 kuna from England, the total pension is 3,020 kuna, and it has to be suspended every month and one part means tax and tax. At the end of the year, he must issue an annual translation to recover the 1,819 kuna. There is a form of JOPPD in which all receipts are in and I think that from 2015 we should arrange a link Tax Administration-Mirovinski zavod so that these things don't happen. And now it's a personal deduction of 3,400 now we raise it to 3,800, the lady has 3,020 kuna and there's no point in stopping her tax every month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91941	The reply to the replica of Minister Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91942	Yeah, thanks for asking. It is also one of the newspapers that the Tax Administration for 2015 is not only for one part of the pensioners but for all Croatian citizens to do their tax application and there will be no more lines before the Tax Administration when they report their income. And it is a step that we must also inform the Tax Administration and I hope that as of next year, that this administration that you mentioned which I believe will be very much annoying for Croatian citizens that from next year it will be much simpler. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91943	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91944	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Mr. Minister, you said these changes will have a positive impact on the income of citizens and will likely affect consumption, and thus also on VAT revenue, of course referring to revenue from the state budget. That's probably saying you're not sure either. Of course, you can't drag the thesis that we're against citizens having more money than income and it can't be as definitely an alibi as you've tried to speak now. I assume that based on the right analysis, check and study, you've gone into changes and additions to this law, I want to believe that. With these changes, the total drop in unit income of local self-government will again be between 1.9 billion and 2.1 billion kuna. How are you going to make it up to me? It says there will be compensation measures proposed by the government and will total 395 million kuna, a total of which means that some 1.7 billion kuna would be missing. And you know that units of local self-government in their own district and you must never interfere with your mind, on the principle of subsidiarity, I would now ask you about my local self-government units and you wouldn't know what's normal, but I know that and I live with it. From transport, from kindergarten, from social giving, from heating, from fire, how we will solve fire, especially in the summer months, and from new introductions we have actually got problems related to construction inspectors, then to traffic directors, agricultural inspectors, part of the Sanitary Inspectorate's affairs. By legalising the Split-Dalmatia County itself, 70 people had to be taken over from the Office of State Administration. With this law, Split-Dalmatia County and the municipalities will lose 400 to 450...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91945	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Replication response, Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91946	Thank you. How units of local self-government will realise this part of income, just as every day Croatian citizens survive, just as every day Croatian citizens who lose their jobs are trying to actually keep their head above water, just as the central state does because the crisis is 6-year-old, which has had a major impact on the business and income of the central budget. I told you that the incomes of local self-government units from 2010 to 2013 increased by 1 billion kuna, so these are the revenues that the units actually handed over to the Ministry of Finance and in this context the question of long-termity arises, because if we don't have a number of employees, this is a much wider picture than just how much someone is going to lose today or someone gets. The question is whether in three or four years if we don't have another million and 200 thousand employees but don't God give us a smaller number, how are we going to finance ourselves? How are we going to finance a health contribution, how are we going to finance a pension where we lack 18 billion kuna each year? How are we going to finance the health care that we lack every year for two to three billion kunas? The question now arises whether we will be long-term, when we are long-term we lack the number of employees in Croatia, we lack the number of employees and that is the only key issue. And if we start raising employment everyone will get and the local community will return their income, the central state will return through a health contribution and everything the government is doing is actually trying to help both the economy and the citizens because we need to start talking about how we return the number of employees. Believe me, and what the local community thinks today is going to lose that part of their income, the question is whether they'll have two years because we don't know if in two years they're going to be working a million and 250 thousand employees, we don't know, because it's a deep crisis and we're having a hard time going out with the number of employees. That's what we're talking about, we're not just talking about GDP growth, whether it's 0.1.1 or not, we're missing the number of employees in Croatia and then we're setting up long-term sustainability and public finances and locals unless we have a number of employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91947	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives Linic, Vuksic and Hodzic, colleagues Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91948	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Our club will support the proposed law, but we must say that with these findings and solutions, we are not exactly in agreement. So let's start with justice immediately in discharging tax citizens. We estimate that it is too little for those citizens who have an average salary of up to 5500 how much wages in Croatia are average. Therefore, if it went to a dispensation and wanted to help citizens, then the solutions in this law could be far more on most workers who receive under 5500. Then we could call it socially sensitive and fairer. On the other hand, we believe that there was less tax burden for those who have above average because unfortunately, in Croatia, social differences are too large. And here we want to make it very clear, regardless of whether it's 100, 1000 or 10,000 taxpayers, the one who receives 13200 in the Republic of Croatia compared to the average 5500 is 2.5 times more receiving a solid salary and that just means that when we look at it personally, we give these people. Who has 13200, and most managers, directors, executives, workers, not even close. Therefore, we estimate that the socially insensitive redistribution in favour of those who receive more, not who live better, gets more and that this redistribution with such I would say tax solutions is not socially fair and that this should have been different, that it should have been given more to those who receive to the average salary in the Republic of Croatia. Let's move on. When we're trying to say that if I follow the numbers of 2 billion from work and about 140 million from retirement, it means almost 2 billion from 200 less from local self-government units, just based on this measure. I must say, under dignity is messages from the government. You've got a lot of employees, you've got big salaries, and that's punishment. So people through this law, through these tax discharges are not punishable by local self-government units. There is a Law on Local Self-Government, where if we need to reduce even more the part that can be spent on wages and we ask for more to be given for purpose spending because we know that the social picture of citizens is difficult, that more and more socialities should go to local self-government units, that there will be more and more funding for kindergartens, and I will not talk about the material state of education. It's tragic, buildings that can no longer meet standards without talking about all those learning needs that are also the work of a local and regional self-government unit. Therefore, speaking and angryly address local self-government units that are irresponsible, have employment, have high wages when it is regulated by laws. But I would remind the Minister of Finance for my time we went to analyze how the Financial Business Act is implemented, so who are the biggest debtors, who are the worst salary of the economy for any procedure at school, in cultural facilities, sports facilities. The greatest indemnities are cities and municipalities. The huge indifference we had to solve is the Financial Business Act solves by paying it found that we have the highest non-payment there. Do we know what that means? That these same businessmen won't be able to charge their claims regularly, they won't be able to. Therefore, with these measures where all the burden of unloading or most of the burden we transfer to local self-government units, we will have increased indifference that will directly affect the economy. Yeah, but you know what? Imagine when someone says cut your wages. This government said 4, 8 and 10 will cut 1.4. Not yet. Do you know what it means to cut wages with collective negotiations, with union negotiations? The whole next year won't. Who's gonna feel the deficits? Who? The businessmen? They will not be paid for anything, it will be very risky to work with local self-government units. So whether we are producing a mess in the economy, problems in the economy, or should we simply create more favourable conditions for business. We should fight for that liquidity. This proposal, where the burden of this is passed on to local self-government units, is not a good solution. And by the way, it could have been a lot easier to get rid of. Therefore, the local self-government minister could go with the laws to seek greater discipline if there is one I would say unacceptable behavior, but also all local self-government units are not the same. There are those who are correct, serious, and who should eventually be sanctioned. So that's why we have audits that show exactly how we behave in that part. They do, and that's why it's acceptable for us to be relieved, even if it's bad enough, because we say it's socially insensitive to us and it's not right. But that's better, too, but not on the burden of local self-government units. So much for talking about this part about unloading. We accept the introduction of the interest income tax. Personally, at the club, we think that if you're already making it easier to make a living, it's untaxable at 2600 kuna a month, and then we thought it would be a good thing if we didn't tax the interest income in one part. So we don't like the idea of taxing every interest that comes from savings out of savings by sight. So we could have charged a part of it just as much as we have the untaxable salary income. And then we go back to dividends, because that's where we gave 12000 a year's right to, now it's abolished to be equal to income taxes on interest. Therefore, we believe that if we are already saying that we will be very careful about the correctness of relations in citizens' incomes, if it means working in one part is untaxable then and capital income can be untaxable regardless of whether dividends are, whether they are savings tax. We believe that this is a far more quality solution and that there is a far more just solution because then we put these citizens in equal relationship. Let's move on. We see here that we have finally come to many earning extra or other income from property. And by the way, the difference in asset values will now be taxed. At what rate? It's 40%. Well, then, I'm asking one more justice. You know, second income is a topic that we've had in this House too. The second income of doctors and professors is taxed by how much? 25% each. Now you raise the base to 13200 when it goes 40%. Now imagine, if you have a piece of land, you'll be able to raise the value in traffic 40%. But the second income of some categories of citizens is untaxable, so that's where you get the extra income from the corporations of enormous amounts. Is that fair? Well, it's not fair. What does that show you? We take care of the rich, the ones who win more. I wouldn't say that they live too luxuriously, it's just some of them, but in this difficult social situation, we're not just again. Now I ask again why another income when you include it on the property? You allow someone to have another income of 25%. Therefore, I expected when you were already opening a second income topic why didn't you open up again with those? Because you should have just said very clearly no, now you've raised tax classes, you've found that the biggest tax class is 13200 when 40% goes now why don't you break the provision that simply the second income is taxed at a lower rate. Therefore, here we can see that this change in tax burden is welcome but what we are establishing is not fair enough, is not social enough for a simple reason because certain categories of citizens will still pay fewer taxes, still those who receive far more benefits and those who live on the edge of poverty simply with 150, 170 kuna cannot solve their social problems. There's one more thing for which, let's be realistic, we'll meet in application of 2015. A good part of the economy with its workers has concluded a contract of work in the net amount. Know the workers' salary increases will not be in the economy. Salaries will increase those employed in state, local and regional self-government and the public sector. So again, the one who creates the newly created value will not get it. Come on, we can say there may be some relief for that same economy because it will pay less contributions and the effect will be for the result of business in the company itself. What I also want to say is we agree that a quality solution is to finally tax and income from waste. Because it is evident that many citizens make a lot of money without having a high-quality tax on income from waste. Well, I think the proposed solution is, in some ways, acceptable. And in the end, I think that with the consequences of this law, I think it was mandatory to state that all the burden had been transferred to local self-government units, that the units of local self-government would not be able to carry out the burden in 2015, so that the burden would mean strengthening indifference, strengthening financial indiscipline, that this burden would also mean huge problems in the realisation of their social obligations. With all these shortcomings we will support him. We haven't even decided on the amendments because it's basically a whole new law. Because if we talk about amendments to this part of the law, we think that we should redistribute that tax charge and go towards the poor. And the rest of the problems of local self-government will be solved in other laws that are on the agenda ahead of us. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91949	Franjo Lucic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91950	Thank you very much. You were talking about social justice, and we are really here inside the HDZ in favour of social justice, and no one has said at any time that discharging should help those who are most at risk. But what you said in your debate and what the minister doesn't want to admit is exactly the discharge on the back of local self-government. Well, Mr. Minister, I told you that as a state, you have to start from your dischargings, and that's what Mr. Linic said, and therefore I'm sure it's an insult when you speak, and it's what Mr. Linic was talking about today, too, to transfer the burden to local self-government and blame the local self-government. So is it our fault in Požega-Slavonia County that our share of income in our budget is from 8% to 17% or 18%? Is that why we're being punished for fitting in to what the state says? So where it's increased total revenues by a billion kuna, I'd really like to see what units of local self-government have thus increased revenues. What does that mean? This means that the economy in the local environments is booming, that the number of unemployed is getting smaller, and we have the opposite, the number of unemployed is growing, the total income of local administrations is shrinking, and then the question of how we're going to survive, how we're going to survive. And of course we're getting an increase in municipal activity. Well, I'd like to see when exactly the state budget comes off and unloads itself, not local self-government units. The easiest way is to transfer responsibility to others and blame us tomorrow for not being able to run a local self-government unit.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91951	Slavko Linic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91952	Thank you, Vice President. I repeat that speaking and interpreting the measure in which the discharge goes to the burden of units of local self-government is not acceptable at all. And such arguments are unacceptable. If we're talking about tax hikes in local self-government units, yes, consumption tax. Why? Well, because we introduced the fiscalization function by hand, so then it just grew traffic and the taxes grew from that base. They didn't grow up with either tax base. To talk about salary growth, so if we'd transferred construction permits, and I'd say we'd transferred fire departments, so these are incomparable sizes, the mass of these jobs have moved to local self-government units. And that's why the number of employees grew. I repeat, if we read the audit reports, we'll see which units don't behave properly. But it's not a job of tax laws, it's a job of the Law on Local Self-Government where you know who's in charge and how you're supposed to solve that problem. So I'm now giving a reason why, in this law, we don't solve the relationship between the state and local self-government, and that law will come, the Law on the financing of local self-government units. And in that part you need to do well, well in the debate set out that this injustice where this burden wants to be transferred to local self-government units is not allowed. So let's not accept this kind of craziness here, and I'd say incorrect explanations. And then we see that yet the backbone of this law is a social injustice to the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91953	Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91954	Dear fellow Linic, you spoke at the very beginning of your debate on the key to justice. In fact, the key to righteousness is the redistribution of wealth that is referred to in the capital of the 21st century and Pikety, which is today one of the stars. In fact, there is talk of redistribution of poverty in Croatia. Because you were also talking about most of the citizens getting these changes of the law at least. However, you also talked about units of local self-government that are getting a growing burden on their backs, and they are being denied more and more money. The problem is that it is dealt with by other laws as you pointed out. Three years ago, it was meant to reform a local self-government that this government would not finish but would have ended probably the next government, so we could say three years later that we are on the right path to the units of local self-government will be helped by reforms and other laws, but we have done nothing, the government is one chaos, and now the question is how the units of local self-government that are too much because a country that has 4.5 million inhabitants cannot, citizens not states can't feed 555 units of local self-government, they can't. And the greatest population is when one and the other leading parties say we will not reduce this is not the problem of the Croatian state, such as the Croatian state's big state administration. Nothing's a problem and there's no money, and we haven't found any solution, not even from local self-government or the state administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91955	Slavko Linic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91956	I'd stick to social justice. If the government really wanted to be socially sensitive and help citizens, why did it just move 13, that tax base at 13200? Why didn't she cut her rate from 25 to 20 so she could less lift that tax base? Why didn't that initial drop by 12%? So now the minister's reading, they're the biggest not looking at these extreme 9, 12. So let's be honest, our average of 25 is too big, and when you touch it, then the question is whether it's 2 billion, 3, 4, 5 billion revenues, we don't know because there's a backbone... Do you understand me? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's the most employees and took off from 20 and 25 not to touch the base and so high up. So what this government has shown, it's not just big wages that matter to us. And if we went down from 25 to 20, we would have caught most of Croatia's citizens. Then we could say that it's a socially sensitive government, because then they would concentrate on all the employees who work and receive an average in the Republic of about 5,500 kuna. So the solutions were very simple, the proposed amendment would be non-serious, non-serious. But it's the simplest amendment we could have suggested. But it was the government's job.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91957	Tomislav Klaric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91958	Dear colleague Linic, I fully agree with you, it is entirely wrong to give to one who has much more and one who has little minimum. But I was surprised by Mr. Minister's argument when he spoke of a large number of employees in local self-government units, increasing the number of employees in local self-government units. Well, he doesn't seem to know how they increase that number of employees in local self-government units. Most of the period that the minister was talking about were built new kindergartens, city libraries were built, all employees in those institutions owned by a local self-government unit are gathered into the number of firemen, you mentioned them. You're talking about 2 billion and 200 thousand less units of local self-government and I'm going back to what we've been talking about all the time, increasing the powers of local self-government units and incomes. In this case, revenues are shrinking, powers are increasing, and we are coming into what the revision of most local self-government units puts on burden as conditional opinion, non-intentional spending of funds. Therefore, units of local self-government are dedicated to building, developing, maintaining municipal infrastructure, what is their essence of spending where they spend on preschool education that this government has passed, and the ministry is co-financed by a child in that preschool education with 20 kuna. The child in that kindergarten units of local self-government costs between 1800 and 2000 kuna. Where does that money come from if not from those incomes that it doesn't have? He said the basic incomes of local self-government units should be from property tax. Which one? We talked about the law being passed, about correcting this injustice, about discharging us in the units of local self-government and the observations of the state's review of conditional opinion, the unintended spending of funds. The state with these laws is forcing local self-government units to do exactly that, to reduce investment, to unintendedly spend funds without talking about an incorrect argument related to an increase in the number of employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91959	Thank you. Slavko Linic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91960	Yes, 2015 will no longer be unintentional because the government has made a proposal on taxation of real estate, which almost two years ago in the Ministry of Finance, because it was decided by Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. He wouldn't give it away. So if I'm not mistaken, on the agenda we have the Law on municipal activities where you'll be said to be able to spend a nice hat. Therefore, the fundamental law that speaks of the purpose of the funds now says you can spend whatever you want, so at least you won't have any more audit results. But that's exactly what audit findings show that upgrades cannot be financed from the redistribution of total tax revenues, which is mainly income tax. That's what every audit confirms. Each. And there's no unit that doesn't spend unintended funds just for the functioning of investment and maintenance, I'd say, upgrades, education, some health, culture, sports, no. And that's the exact data, that's what the audit reports show, and that's why reducing the revenue that they're meant to be for is a blow to the citizens' standard again. And at the same time let's check the material state of these activities in the units of local self-government and then we'll see that it's very difficult and that it just needs to be solved, but not without income. That's why I agree with you, every argument that speaks only of wages, the number of employees, and not going deep into the analysis of local self-government units because it has to be the backbone for our debate, and we don't have it. We know her from our own experience, from knowledge of the state in local self-government units. That is why I believe that such arguments are flat-rate and non-serious and unfortunately, in front of us in the House come such reasonings that are truly unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91961	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91962	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Linic, I was surprised when you said at the end of your debate that you would support this law, and previously you said it was very unfair. I came forward because you mentioned those 150 and 170 kunas how many citizens, employees, will get more. No, most of them will get out of about 30, 40 kuna. The minister did not just say the exact percentage and number of those in the category, only the numbers of those who have over 15 or 20 thousand net wages said. But this is the largest part that's going to get 30, 40 kuna. And there's the problem. That's why the law is unfair, at the same time it will have a situation when you're talking about local self-government, and I know you know it's going to happen to a man of 40, 50 kuna, and then he'll get his kindergarten by 100, and eventually there'll be 50 kuna in a minus, but not because local self-government wants to collect the kindergarten, but because kindergartens are already asking to raise the price or subsidies, or they'll have to charge more from their parents, without changing this law, and now it's ongoing. Economic prices are now being established. And I'd like to ask you another question when you're talking about the justice of the law. Have you ever, as Minister, until yesterday, tried to calculate the effects of reducing VAT on food to 10%, so how much justice there would be, how much savings there would be, how much social justice and ultimately, probably no one would lose, not the state budget, and especially the local budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91963	Slavko Linic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91964	So why are we gonna uphold the law? So the main thing of these 2 billion and 200 is what goes to all those who are going to fall into the untaxable grade of 2600 because it's an increase of 400 kunas of the untaxable. Unfortunately, we have most of the employees in the industry there, and it's also raising the untaxable part of the pension from 3400 to 3800. That's the main thing, why? Because it's mass, it's mass, millions and 300 employees, massaging in this part and a million 300 thousand, almost, pensioners are also in this part of you. Therefore, they will still feel 150 kuna, 150 kuna. And that's why we have to uphold that law. But I don't agree that this should fall on the burden of units of local self-government, which is another law we're going to debate very much. When you talk about VAT and food, then it's something you have to realize that it's not social because it goes to everyone, both the poor and the rich. Again, it's not social, it would be a good measure to ease the burden of prices for citizens and to simply maybe turn to the domestic market, but... to the budget option. But it can't be social when it comes to everything, and whoever has 100,000 kunas a month and one who has 1,000 kunas a month. Therefore, try to understand, one is a social policy, it must be turned to those who receive little. Therefore, the solutions in this law were, perhaps, still raised 100 kuna for the untaxable part. Reduce the rate from 25 to 20, yes, then it would be social because it goes towards employees who receive a salary of 5500 Croatian average.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91965	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91966	Dear Madam Vice President. My colleague Linic, I agree with everything you said because that is true, in my opinion, just not with the conclusion that all the burden will be transferred to local self-government units. Now, that's not true, he'll be transferred to the orphanage, to the poor layers of the population, because units of local self-government will not only pay all the taxes, but also raise the utility fee. From who? Of all the citizens and the poorest and the unemployed. Not only will those with smaller incomes be affected now, but I have an apartment or a house has a communal fee, and the unemployed will have to pay that increased municipal fee, too, Mr. Minister. If that's how the mayor of Split is, here's the Free Dalmatia I'm not going to show her I'm not advertising, last week says we're going to have to raise the communal fee. The state did not have the courage to say no to the Parliament 150 is quite angry and it is much, the state did not have the courage but the SDP government brought an increase of not the state administrations of the new 5 thousand people but in Split the provision that it did not have 25 but that it raised the number from 25 to 35 council members of the city of Split etc. I was the deputy mayor of '97. There were 350 clerks, so we figured it was a lot of 280. Then Kerum came up to over 400, now SDP Baldasar came to over 500. Baldasar's got 14, 15 advisors. What's he gonna do with it? What kind of mayor he is if he needs 15 advisers to advise him on how to run the town of Split. That state doesn't do anything. You're all lying. This is just a demagogue trick. Josipovic should be elected president, so let's get the people paid up as a front. So who do you sell the fog to?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91967	Thank you. Slavko Linic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91968	Again, I want to make it very clear that today is not the problem of funding the local self-government unit, today is the problem of reason and we do not have to agree with it. The law on the financing of the local self-government unit comes before us, and that's where we have to put ourselves in the debates so that we don't accept that this burden is transferred to local self-government units. And let's also try to figure out and try to figure out if that's what I've been waiting for the promoter to say, what's going to happen in local self-government units. Our club said, number 1 will increase liquidity, no investments will be paid, payment deadlines 60 to 90 days will move, it is a blow to the economy. What's gonna happen? It may be a rise in kindergarten prices, but let's be honest, kindergarten prices are still a social category, so you have a social category. Who's gonna pay? And for me as mayor would never be a problem. Now you've got a thousand kunas. I'll take it all away from you through the price of kindergarten. So these categories that the base has taken off of them, raise the fee. He got a thousand take a thousand, but don't touch that poor girl who got 100 kuna. Therefore, social policies and social programmes of cities I argue will not feel it. Why? But then will the citizen we're saying now be able to buy something have more money? Well, he won't have any more money. It's the same question of the city's transport price. It's the same thing as the price of gas. Enter more social categories, and these raise the price.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91969	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91970	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister with an assistant, a colleague and a colleague. That tax policy is simple and that things without overall analysis can totally turn wrong is the best confirmation of what this government has done in the past three years. So just remember the changes to the Income Tax Act in 2012, then it was great what, today it's going with the diametrically opposite changes and nothing to anyone. I responsibly argue that nothing has touched the tax system, today Croatia would have one 2.3.3 billion kuna more and would have a smaller deficit for that amount. But we're where we are. And to realize this debate only that citizens will get paid, not to watch who and why not watch who will pay all this together, and everything through the cover of supposed salary increases would be inconclusive to the citizens. I'll say yes, we're at the HDZ Club to raise wages, but that other part of the story we don't like at all, and that's local self-government units. And the second thing, Mr. Minister, is not clear to me in your reasoning of this law that the salary will increase, at the same time in the next document adopted by this government a week later in the guidelines of fiscal economic policy clearly for this tax change, you say that this will relieve the price of labour. It's a diametrically contradictory assessment of what you're writing in this explanation. However, colleagues and colleagues, if we really want to help those who have the lowest wage, then I ask you why for the first time in the history of the Croatian state since '93 the lowest rate does not cover the untaxable part of income tax. It never happened that with the lowest rate, the amount of personal deduction was not taxed. Now look what's happening now, we're raising personal deductions for those who have a 40% tax, but it's very interesting no more tax classes than tax bases. And what is the tax base for those who have the lowest wage and who are paid 12%? It's not 2,600 colleagues and colleagues, it's 2,200. What's the message? Who do we rub our eyes on that we want to help those who have the least? Why didn't we raise it to 2,600 from 12%? I welcome the move to keep the minimum wage untaxable, but if we're talking about something, then we stick to tradition. The worst thing is to step away from tradition. It took 21% 2,600 and then the whole story would probably end up somewhere on a logical note that it would end up at 13,000 because then there would be 5 personal deductions and a 40% taxation, but I can't possibly look at in the context of this debate the Law on the financing of local self-government units proposed by this government and that's something that's radical. Look at colleagues and colleagues, once towns and municipalities, counties that had primary school care received a share in income tax 3.1%, and now that their base has been reduced in the new bill they will get 1.9%. For high schools, counties used to get 2.2% share in income tax, now they will get 1.3. Social Services used to get 0.5%, that practically all units of local self-government, now it's going to get 0.2%. Homes for the elderly and powerless, I wonder how the Retirement Party will react to this. Sometimes a share in income tax 1.7, now 0.6. Health care, we keep taking him down, so remember that two years ago there were billions of kunas in the budget to resuscitate the county hospitals. It was these hospitals that were financed by 3.2% of the income tax, with a new law predicting 1%. Public fire departments, we firemen just remember when we have floods and when we have a fire on the Adriatic, but look, public fire stations from 1.3 to 1%. Or if you look at the total decentralised function from 12 to 6% share in income tax or if you turn it into a nominal it's about 720 million kuna. So much for who's going to help whom and what's going to help whom. So it's acceptable to reduce the tax burden... of pay but we can't accept there to compensate exclusively for the units of local self-government. Because look, the structure of the budget of the local self-government units doesn't leave much space. You income from municipal compensation, income from municipal contribution, participation in the financing of kindergarten prices cannot be used for other things. But you do that own funding of kindergartens, funding of education, financing of firefighting, financing of social policy, funding of associations to finance precisely from these funds that you are now being reduced. And then there's the question of what they're gonna do and who's gonna do it. But we'll talk more about it when there's a law on the financing of local self-government units. What the HDZ Club can't agree with this time, and this time we're going to make an amendment, which is taxing foreign pensions. None of these people in most cases left voluntarily, many unfortunately in the 60's, 50's left for political reasons, very difficult to earn these pensions and with countries with which they have a double taxation agreement that can still be resolved, but Switzerland and all of the overseas countries simply can't solve it, which we don't even have a health insurance agreement with the overseas countries. These people, when they come to Croatia, have no health insurance, and then you tax them nicely, which is much bigger than the average Croatian pension. And I believe that instead of Article 3 of the amendment to this law, we will make an amendment that foreign pensions from residents are not considered income and not taxable. So through the cover of income taxation, income cuts and pay hikes, this law wants to get through a lot. Look, let's start with the dividend tax. Who pays dividend tax in Croatia? He pays a few of those successful companies, telecommunications houses, banks, insurance companies that still have. Energy companies with profits do not pay dividend taxes in Croatia. According to the Double Taxation Act, they're somewhere else. But look at your colleagues and colleagues, let's say they even pay for it. Who will invest money in Croatia when his income tax, when he makes everything, hires people, manufactures and pays utility fees, pays VAT, pays contributions, pays everything alive, and from what remains for him in Zagreb falls about 35%. To whom are we competitive, who are we sending a message to come to invest money in Croatia? Who's gonna bet if they have to pay 35 percent for their profits? So are we not aware, let us let go of the story of what anyone has about us, so do we not realize how much money it takes to open up a job? So at this point, it's our priority to open it up, I'll say it by heart, 100,000 jobs and give it to all those who are able to do it maximum benefits because it's going to come back to our budget multiple times. And we here for maybe 100 million or a couple of tens of millions put a list of Croatians where whoever suggests where they will invest say no in Croatia, there is a tax on dividends 35%. What message are we sending? And at the same time, we'll have a profit tax law where we boast about reinvested profits, about getting rid of one or another. We don't need to, no one's going to invest. No smart businessman will invest because someone gives him a tax relief, he will invest because he thinks he can expand his activity, that he can hire people, and that he can simply react more strongly on the market, not because someone gave him a tax relief. And that's exactly what we drive out of Croatia because with this dividend tax something that is simply in a country like Croatia that has a recession of so many years, in which very few companies I capitalized to invest, we go with one of these decisions. And what's her fiscal effect, almost nothing. Almost nothing, because with all the problems that Croatia has, with a deficit of 21, 22 billion, with the loss of local self-government and no fiscal effect, we put what we put on ourselves, the Tax on interest. Yes, it is nice to say that only in the hands of two or one percent saved practically 80% of the savings in the Republic of Croatia. However, there was again a group that was hit very hard by their profits, and these are people who worked abroad. Croatia too has a large diaspora. We can expect a lot of help from this diaspora, but we can't expect much help if we don't accept that diaspora in any way. Because look, for a time in the countries of the former state, Croatia had almost 600, 700 000 citizens in the countries of Western Europe. They're all just changing the tax code in '95. By abolishing the pension tax on some other things, they practically made a decision to receive pensions in the Republic of Croatia and to save in Croatian banks. And in this way they raised Croatia's credit potential and capacity. Now another question arises why these banks with these 175 billion savings do not participate significantly in the promotion and development of the economy. The second thing, the interest rate at this point is between 2 and 2, 2 and 5 on armed assets for over a year, so this interest tax cake is not God-knows-what, and I say it can do us a lot of damage. But to make sure HDZ isn't against interest taxes for one reason or another, we'll say let's be neutral here. But if we put this whole thing together in a bunch of words like that, then the question is what is the real effect of these tax changes. You know which one? The effect is the one we talked about yesterday when we talked about the budget rebalancing, which is a real deficit of the state budget that was supposed to be around tens of billions right now that it wasn't tampering with the tax system, because I can't call it anything but scribble. Because if someone were to systematically do it, then it would be known how to fix it systematically. So the same thing is going to happen with the amendments to this law, only at this point we're not going to get laid on the state budget, but we're going to hit on local self-government units. We're not gonna hit the mayors, the mayors, the mayors and the employees of the local self-government. We'll hit the citizens again who have the lowest wage. Unfortunately, they'll probably collect some services in their town and it won't even be what you get at the other one, and you lose on the pot, but it'll lose a lot more on the pot. And that is why colleagues and colleagues cannot accept such a voluntary tax policy that does not accept the situation in the Republic of Croatia, which does not accept one big difference in development between individual environments in the Republic of Croatia, and this Law on the financing of units of local self-government best shows how to think and think. And maybe someone will remember now and start some kind of fund. And you know what's going on again? The money's going the other way. Instead of decentralisation, we're re-centralizing. So, colleagues and colleagues are the reasons why the Croatian Democratic Community club cannot support this bill. I said that we would invest on an article our amendment for the reason that the Croatian diaspora may at this time be one of the strongest links that can help in the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia, not only in the investment of its own capital, but with its business reputation in the world where there is capital, where there are products that can be sold on the market, so with its reputation, with its recommendations to send these people to invest in Croatia. But the question is whether they will come to invest in Croatia if their profit tax on dividends turns out to be 35%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91971	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91972	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Shuker, I agree with everything you have said and I will complete your debate with one part that is written under part of the decentralisation policy, Chapter XXI, Plan 21, and it says: "Our goal is to increase the powers of the units of local and regional self-government and their income." Currently, 9 out of 10 kuna tax goes to the state budget, and the remaining 1 goes to all local and regional self-government. Our goal is to catch up with developed EU countries and to increase the share to 20% of the total tax revenues from the current 10. The decentralisation of budgetary positions is one of the real and feasible requirements. This is described in Chapter XXI. Plan 21. This measure is probably also in line with it, and probably because of the way it happened, which is a completely unilateral act without respecting the associations of cities and associations of municipalities in the Republic of Croatia and their thinking. There is simply no guarantee on this proposal that wages will rise, especially if they are agreed in the net amount. If someone has a net amount of 4000 kuna as a contract to pay him with, who guarantees that they will now have 4100 kuna per new one. I mean no one. What kind of benefits these employees will be will be seen at the end of the year when they realize that the costs that will increase on the local self-government side may exceed what they get on the payroll. That's why I'm saying that this government has elegantly honored local self-government and all citizens, and that this will probably end up probably not the government itself who came here without any analysis knows and cannot explain it to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91973	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91974	Thank you, dear fellow Boric. Well, you've touched what's basically the primary purpose of local self-government. So she should then, which should solve the life problems of Croatian citizens. However, I have not yet said two things in my debate. Unlike inefficient tax policy, I forgot to mention something else. Since the inefficient withdrawal of EU funds and from what the state budget says will practically pull out units of local self-government, the state is very little. So he's saying something. The second thing, given that everything financed by local self-government units is not in the VAT system, means these two billion that will be invested in various grants, municipal infrastructure, consumption and such, a quarter of it practically comes into the state budget through value added tax. And with these salaries, it may have escaped someone who wrote guidelines for fiscal economic policy, so they know that in the private sector, the most common contracts are net pay. And he knew in principle that the employer would be relieved of it but the local budget would also be disbursed because the less-paid tax would very much feel the units of local self-government. So it's easy to barter and honor on someone else's account, and it's very hard to do it on your own.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91975	Vice President Zeljko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91976	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, dear fellow Shuker, you've very precisely detected a whole series of problems that arises by passing this law. I must admit, in fact, the most surprising thing about this is that this bill is proposed by the government led by the SDP, so the Social Democratic Party. What is proposed by this law is exactly the opposite of the idea of social democracy, or at least what it should represent, because it will actually increase the wages most to those who have the highest wages and at least to those who have the lowest wages. So, that's profoundly contrary to what social democracy should advocate. The other thing is what counterpart Boris mentioned, the issue of centralisation. Now it's happening to this one more step in a series of steps of greater centralisation of the state and it's just that the SDP has been saying for years that the state is too centralised and needs to be decentralised. Following all of this, I am very surprised that the members of the SDP, the Social Democratic Party, will be able to raise their hands for this law that is against the fundamental settings of social democracy, so that the weakest ones get more and help them and the ones with the highest to give more, or to help them less. How the representatives of the Retired Party will raise their hands when they know that less money will be given to the homes of the pensioners and that there will be even more problems in this system. These are problems that need to be clearly said not to fool the people further so that I do not know how to achieve something positive. They'll achieve exactly the opposite of what everyone's sworn to and that's to help... [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91977	Thank you very much. Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91978	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Vice President Reiner, so I've asked the Minister a question, I hope he answers me, why is that first class or first tax base as they call it not 2600 but 2200? So when you take one salary of 6000 kuna, if you have one dependent member of the family, then you have 2600 non-taxable, actually 3900 non-taxable, and the next 2200 kuna you pay at a rate of 12%. However, if you have 2600 then your amount is far less and your receipt is about 50, 60 kuna higher. However, it is very interesting that those who were said to have to be taxed two years ago, that they earn the most, so that the 40% tax threshold was reduced from 10 800 to 8800 then it was fine now it was very interesting that they suddenly became vulnerable citizens of the Republic of Croatia, that it became an avant-gard of Croatia to which it should be helped and that part of taxation from 25% to 40% raised to 13200 kuna. That's not a small amount. Because the difference between 8800 and 13200 is 4400 and when you tax it with a 15% rate it's not a small amount at all, it's about 600, 700 kuna. But I'm saying, she's got a folk that's the easiest way to put a fat goose on her neck.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91979	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91980	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I must say that I share that doubt and dissent with the government's view that under this law there is an increase in employees' salaries and that in the second law, the government would say that this law implies a reduction in labour prices. So the question arises whether the government thus acknowledges that there will be no pay increase in the real sector because the employer will keep the net salary and will reduce gross wages, thus practically reducing his obligations per employee. And the other thing that I wanted to do for you here is also replicate the main characteristic of this law is that units of local and regional self-government are reducing revenues by 2 billion kunas. At the same time, this law, or its amendments, increases revenues by 600 million kuna to the state budget, not 300 million kuna. I would like the minister to explain to me how it is very easy to calculate that by introducing the interest rate tax on savings, there will be an increase in revenues in the state budget by 300 million kunas when it is very easy to calculate that 177 billion kunas saving Croatian citizens at an average rate, you said 2.5 or 2,6, 2.7% and then by taxing on that 12% comes out 600 million kuna or 550 million kuna, not 300. So this law reduces the original incomes to local self-government units by 2 billion, and the state itself increases revenues by 600 million kuna. So we rightly wonder if this government really wants to bring down the local self-government system in Croatia because it is clear that such a law does not allow local self-government to function. Finally, it will lead to a significant increase in those revenues and fees that are in the jurisdiction of local self-government units, which means an increase in municipal compensation, an increase in the price of services in kindergartens, etc., etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91981	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91982	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A colleague of Bačić's that with this law we have received all the measures that will replace the units of local self-government with reduced income then that would be different. However, what I have set up as a minister after his opening part, I would say again that we do not need to raise wages in this home and in all government officials. How and how will the Government solve this is her problem. He's also talking to local officials. If the wages are too high at the local level, then the government has a law that can handle it, not throw it away like this. Not because of a small group of people punishing millions of Croatian citizens because the services we all pay in our local self-government units can very likely be collected for this. And whoever's to blame will again be the leaders of the local self-government unit. Now look, under the circumstances HDZ is holding more than 60% of local self-government units with its coalition partners. Don't you think that maybe that and that's a slight political blow in the election year, because looking very important is the mood at the local level, because if you're not going to do some things at the state level is a disaster, here someone wants you to create a disaster at the local level and try to even it out. However, all the happiness of Croatian citizens has passed that school, so they will not fall for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91983	Frano Matušić replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91984	Thank you, Madam Vice President. According to the European Charter of Local and Regional Self-Government, a colleague of Shuker, any rude incursion by the central authorities, so the state authorities in the financing of units of local self-government and without their consent violates the rights contained in the European Charter of Local and Regional Self-Government. So any right cuts in local and regional self-government must be achieved in agreement with those same representatives of those same units. So, not the European behaviour of the Croatian government will certainly lead to criticism from Europe, but it is not important for us at this point, it is important what those who are employed think. And we are no evil prophets here when we say there will be an increase in municipal fees, services in kindergartens, etc. and other institutions co-financed by local units, but those are the words of the people responsible for these same units of local self-government. So that's what the mayors tell us, and the mayors and the mayors of the municipalities whether they're HDZ or SDP. And the other thing, of course, is that the last point of defense of Plan 21 has fallen, as counterpart Boris just said. In the last paragraph 21, there was going to be further decentralisation. And in simple language, it was said that out of ten tax kunas, instead of one kuna that went to local self-government by 2011, two kunas would go instead. So 100% increase in funds for local self-government. It was an announcement of your decentralisation. And instead of that one kuna now, it's going to be 0.5, 0.6 kuna. So there's going to be a reduction. And of course it will reflect that citizens, especially those who have the smallest income, who will get 50 kuna more that they will actually pay for the services of several hundred kunas more monthly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91985	Thank you. Thank you very much, dear colleague. Drazenko Pandek's injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91986	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I think he's a colleague, Matušić, but all the other HDZ colleagues hurt Article 235. Rules of Procedure relating to replicas. In fact, it is my impression that they are essentially not replicating but using them and I would say that they are using it as an institute of replicas to bring out their personal debates and in this way they are hurting the Rules of Procedure, but I think they are acting illegally, unfairly against other MPs who have applied for the debate, and they are bringing up their personal debates in fact before the order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91987	Thank you very much. Since it has already gone into parliamentary practice, then we allow such replicas. ... Well, it is a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but everyone's using it, so I'm already saying it as a parliamentary practice. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Comrade Ivan Shuker, don't throw me out of the club, colleague Shuker, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91988	Comrade Matusic, the biggest problem is when short memories are, you know who introduced this way and model, but well that doesn't matter. It is important that one D happened to this country, but instead of decentralisation, deflation occurred. And now from the fear of the power of that D, they removed it and came to centralization. And that's the key problem of this government. And when you don't have a system, when you don't know what you're doing, then it happens exactly what happens. The European Charter is for those who do not know what to do and who are doing exactly what this government is doing, who simply want to put local self-government under its wing, without giving air to the local administration. For these, it is the European Charter, which restricts them from going beyond a certain minimum. And for us who should know exactly what one Vukovar needs, what one Gospić needs, what one Vrgorec needs, what one Split, Zagreb, Pula, Osijek, Rijeka, we do not need the European Charter because we know what the problems are. And no one can know these problems better than we do, but the question is, if we want to take 2 billion from all these cities and, as it says in the Law on the financing of local self-government units, we take these money from our children, we take it from our health, we take it from the social community, we take it from the firefighters and we take it from the cultural artistic societies and the sports collectives, we take it from them, because it says here in this law, the amended Law on the financing of local self-government units. And that's the key to the whole problem. So, regardless of what we will try to impose that we are against increasing wages, we are but not at the expense of all Croatian citizens, i.e. The unit of local self-government, but it was supposed to be found another model if it wanted to go this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91989	We're moving on with the replicas. Dear Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91990	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, you were talking about the average personal income in the Republic of Croatia, which is around 5 800 kuna. But we ask ourselves whether it is a realistic average personal income if we know that it is the average personal incomes of civil servants, public companies and all those who today have far, far greater personal incomes than they should have. Did we perhaps wonder if the average personal income in the real sector is also what? Of course he's far smaller and he's something over 3,000 kunas. Of course, as much as you want to say today, how you want to help those who are the poorest, this is exactly what we're talking about today, and we hear from both the minister and all those who advocate, and very few of those who appear in their discussions because it seems that the units of local self-government that are headed by the people who come from the SDP will raise their hands for this law no matter what it will be to their harm. We ask ourselves a question and many times here and we ask ourselves, which is why this tax discharge wasn't real at all, the same, and to give far more to those who got the least. Why not just to those you say will not increase their personal income, but to the burden of the state budget, disburse yourself and give to those who receive the least. Yeah, we're up for it. We said, we don't want an increase in personal income here in this House and everything that was meant to increase us, give it to those who get the least.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91991	Thank you. A fellow Shucker will respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91992	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Lucic, I still have an enigma. Why do we tax only 2200 kuna with 12%? Why isn't that 2600 kuna? And why doesn't this upper limit end as it's always been in some kind of round amount, I mean about the non-taxable part, why doesn't it end up at 13,000? If we really want to help those who have the lowest wage, which is, say, people with incomes of up to 6 thousand nets, then we had to go with 2600, taxing 12%, but the enigma is why it's left 2200. Why did he get this far away from a class that's taxing 25%? And do we really have to take care and think that those who have a salary above 13, 14, 15 thousand kunas will spend more net because the state has given them 1,000 kunas more? No, but unfortunately those who will get 50 kuna less because this 2200 is not 2600, they are so and so, unfortunately, in a minus. They also see that salary drawn from 01 to 01, how to settle obligations and pay everything they have to and ultimately, how children who will lose funds under this Law on the financing of local self - government units will pay for a meal at school.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91993	We're moving on with the replicas. Dear Hope Cavlović Smiljanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91994	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague Shuker, I must replicate your debate about amending the income tax law. No matter how hard you work here on the right today to talk about how changes to the Income Tax Act mean nothing to Croatian citizens, I find that amazing. You can't prove it. The minister himself spoke of the bill,... so it says, over a million Croatians, meaning, employers, citizens, employees, by increasing the untaxable income and by increasing actually the tax classes, will feel the salary increase. So the only real truth is that over a million Croatian employees will get a higher salary. The bill also says these stories of yours that the highest benefit for those who have high salaries, see, only 3,000, the minister stressed, 3,000 Croatian employees with their salaries will fall under the highest tax rate. What are we talking about? For truth's sake, this government in its three-year term has doubled its untaxable incomes twice. First time in 2012 from 1800 to 2200 kuna for employees and from 3200 to 3400. So this time the increase goes to 2600, or 3800 kuna, and all those who say that this government is not social democratic, that they don't take care of the citizens, of course they twist things because it doesn't suit them. This Croatian Government takes good care of Croatian workers because this means a direct increase in the salary of Croatian workers, and that local units will lose their income, so it will be the next set of laws that we will discuss in this Parliament and keep repeating one thing, Mr. Shuker,... you are familiar with. Just one sentence, the state officials won't get a salary increase, but it can't regulate the Income Tax Act... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91995	Time, thank you. The answer to the replica... My colleague Cavlović Smiljanec, you cannot talk over time. Replication response, fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91996	My colleague Cavlović, I am not a magician to know what someone will do. I'm talking about the acts we have here. The second thing, that you listened well, I said that we support an increase in wages with the basis of tax discharge. But not like this. Not in a way to take it to local self-government units. That's a fact. However, also when you talk about facts, you in the first increase in the non-taxable part increased the income tax for all citizens who had more than 6 thousand kuna salaries, and look at the tax classes that you were in and you'll see. So, only those who had under 6 grand felt something, and now you're going with... the opposite policy. So let's let those of you who have 13,200, take these others, so their salary will rise by 600 and some more kuna. But I'm saying that the key problem is why 12% not 2600, but 2200? Why? Let someone explain it to me, if you're so social-democracy and if you think so much of those who have the least. Well, doesn't it make sense that those who fall into those 2200, 2600, that the maximum part of them isn't taxed, and then later you can to those who... however you want. Because what makes sense is that the first 12%, the first tax grade or the first tax base as it says in this law, is no longer an untaxable part of income as it has been in the past 20 years, was never that it was not untaxable. Why? But that pay tangs exactly the poorest, which pays those poorest bring 50 kunas more per month. Well, let's not let someone buy four kilos of steak, and at the same time we don't let someone buy two and a half kilos of stern.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91997	Replica, the esteemed Zeljko Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91998	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I do not understand how you are in your debate, and this often happens, and fellow Vice President Reiner has mentioned a party that does not have its representatives in this House. Today you mentioned this party and I must warn you as well as my colleague Reiner, and I have done so a year ago that since 2003 representatives of the Croatian Party of Retired People have been sitting in this House. And therefore I ask you nicely to use the full name of this party because otherwise there are many parties in Croatia and it is not... gentlemen I say clearly that this party is registered at all, which you have stated today because only from the Croatian party of pensioners is thrown out of that beautiful name Croatia. And therefore, please let us not shorten the names of the parties, but we call it a full name and a last name. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u91999	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92000	My deepest apology, and it was really not my intention, believe me. Here's my apologies. But honestly speaking when you've already taken the word that you're going to mention this article that talks about decentralised funds where homes for older and powerless persons from 1.7% of income tax are reduced to 0.6 where social care institutions are reducing from 0.5% to 0.2% of their income tax, and where, for health care, the county hospital is shrinking from 3.2% to 1%, and that's what I said in my debate. Maybe I was clumsy then, I apologize again, I took advantage of this. But I think this is important to you, it's probably what I'd do if someone called my party wrong, but I think this is a far more important thing to discuss together because I don't know how it's going to be covered and from what means it's going to settle down. Because talking about some sort of compensation fund, you know what the compensation fund means? You need to secure some position in the budget for it you need to secure the funds. And you know what that means, where you're gonna get them from? This has so far been financed from tax funds paid by Croatian citizens, so there has been no increased tax burden. But now these decentralised functions, funds for decentralised functions have been cut in half from about a billion 450, a billion 500, they will fall to some 700, 750 million because so far there has been 12% of the income tax for these decentralised functions of the local self-government and county units, and now it's only 6% because it says in the Law on the financing of the local self-government unit. Well, no one pulled it out of their chests. But I'm saying here for the old and powerless is practically down 60%.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92001	Replica, the esteemed Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92002	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you've said one sentence that we're sending through the amendments to these laws, and I'd like to make it right and say that there's a sentence to be set by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to be sent to the citizens. And as we analyze a little bit and answer that question that the message sends, it sends me a message of one indifference and incompetence and the transfer of a hot ball to another's backyard. I say someone else's yard because in this assembly we often have opportunities to hear such rather unpleasant words against local self-government. And it is this law that directly strikes what is said here and what you have been saying and perhaps it was necessary to discuss a joint joint joint joint debate on these laws because this law directly strikes the budgets of local self-government and really should have been at a united debate and the Law on amendments to the law on the financing of the local self-government unit. What is not good is that no analysis of the situation has been made, that it is not really seen what we want in the end and that message and the answer to that question that you asked is very simple, there is still a message of tax uncertainty of one of the biggest problems of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92003	The replica matches Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92004	That as the head of the local self-government unit, you are fully aware of the problems that can arise with these changes, more so than the time when the budget is brought. The leaders of the local self-government unit don't even know what frames they can move in. So they got a law on funding a local self-government unit that will massacre them, and now the question is whether they're going to get some compensation fund and what that is. However, it is very interesting that this provision restricts the city of Zagreb, no more cut as much as you want to 30% but their cut is now limited to 18% so the city of Zagreb is practically disabled by any of its own interventions if it wants to do so to their political risk. Now the question is what will happen to the other units of local self-government, whether they're driven because I think only from two cities at the moment have a maximum cut, that's if I'm not wrong about Osijek and the Vinkovci but maximum by law or the highest, and the others have far lower. So, does this mean that others are suggested to raise their taxes so that in another way, you burden the citizens because here they will shrink, and here they will increase to finance their activities. And as for these famous salaries in local self-government, the government has the ability to define by law according to the original budget the amount of resources can go to pay. I also think that the head of the local self-government units should also be limited in a certain way by some basis to the President of the Government or the President of the State, that there is simply a step-by-step hierarchy and please, nice and can't go any other way. But this is how they talk so much and so many people have hired, so much and so much money they've spent. So look at only two years of legal provisions that have landed certain powers on local self-government units. And instead of the local self-government units being the foundation...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92005	Time. He will now present his replica with the esteemed Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92006	Thank you very much. Namely, fellow Shuker, this law will not open any new jobs. You talk about 100,000 jobs in your presentation, so I would disagree with you if the government hadn't done its job. I think this government will do its job in this term and create 100,000 jobs, but not in the Republic of Croatia, but in Canada, Sweden, Ireland, Denmark. We have a problem with the most pro-pulsory part of our population leaving. So this law doesn't solve it, and just looking at data from the Bureau that we're down the number of employees and that's the same number of unemployed. Therefore, the government will fulfill what it has promised, the opening of 100,000 jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92007	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92008	Yes, Comrade Bubalo, unfortunately I have to agree with you. I was in Frankfurt on Sunday for mass and the priest said that in a Catholic mission in Frankfurt covering Frankfurt and the surrounding area in the last year, 1500 people were reported more than a year ago, but 1,500 people to 15 000 people meant a terrible lot. These are primarily young people who have left Croatia, and these are young people with whom this government boasts that they have reduced the number of unemployed because they have checked out of the stock market and gone out to work. Now the question is how many are in other countries and how unfortunately there are in the overseas countries, and those who go to the overseas country are unfortunately most likely lost to Croatia. And Croatia cannot build its economic recovery without young educated people. Therefore, Croatia cannot solve its burning problems without new jobs at the moment, but if you tell someone that you will tax him for the reward he opened 5, 10, 15, 100 jobs, that you will further tax his profits, so he is not crazy to come to Croatia, open and hire 100 Croats. He'll go somewhere else where it's not there. But also why speak it is these have like this, these have one. No one has, everyone actually has a different problem. Croatia has its own problem. How will Croatia solve the problem of job creation? Well, only through people who have ideas, who have a product and who have capital. They should be drawn here in every way possible. But if we tell them no, you'll pay us 35% when you earn, so you sing your song, then we can't talk about this. Unfortunately, we will talk about what you were talking about, that we will count the number of employees of Croats in Central Europe, in Western Europe, in overseas countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92009	Replica, Drazen Pandeck.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92010	Thank you. Dear colleague, I would refer to the part of your exposure in which you expressed concern about double taxation of foreign pensions. Correct me if I'm wrong, but I don't think this proposal will lead to cumulative taxation, so both with our tax and with the state's tax, even if there's no double taxation agreement, then here will be the amount of tax paid elsewhere. So the tax will be paid only... Croatian tax higher than the tax paid in another country with which Croatia does not have a double tax agreement. And when we talk about rights, then we need to talk about both rights and obligations. So every Croatian citizen has certain rights, so let's say that if a man who is a citizen of Croatia and receives an American pension, he has the right here to be a health care provider as well as Croatian citizens. If he is our citizen, if he is therefore there, he makes certain contributions, if he has certain rights. And I'm asking you how much it would cost to treat him in the United States where he wouldn't have had enough of all his pensions, no matter how big they are, and how much it would cost him here. It would also refer to your exposure to therefore concerns about double taxation, i.e. taxation of dividend taxes and concerns about how it will affect investment. So you said yourself that these agreements to avoid double taxation to foreign residents, if they're investing here, then they, if I understand you correctly, don't pay that tax. And here they are now talking about those who make dividends up to 12,000 kuna. These are certainly not large institutional investors, but despite these rules on avoidance of double taxation, even those foreigners will not be demoted for investment. I would say that this bill even motivates investment, but investing in reinvested profits and, say, investment in bonds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92011	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92012	Comrade Pandek, your side of the assembly and this side of the assembly will never speak equally of the Croatian diaspora. It's just such a concept of things. To say in this way that someone, not knowing at all what problem our diaspora is facing, has evicted Croatia from America, Australia, Canada, South America, when they come here for six months is simply ridiculous. Well, you've solved it with the Law of Residency, practically eliminated them all. However, you must know that these people have gained some business reputation out there, earned something, that they can certainly help Croatia. The second thing, the pension tax line, in one Switzerland, we will not go to America, is far above this 3800 border that the Republic of Croatia has. And he since Croatia does not have a signed contract to avoid double taxation with Switzerland.... Most of the time, I was with people in Switzerland who told me they had to pay taxes on Sunday. But why don't we settle it the way I do, and this untaxable part of the Croatian pensioners would be raised to 6,000 kuna. Why, because they used to pay taxes on that pension contribution they made in the former Yugoslavia. And is 100 million more just the crucial thing to save Croatian public finances. But we have a different way of thinking and thinking about the Croatian diaspora. He has a terrible potential, a potential that Croatia unfortunately, and during the time of the government while my party was in power, did not make enough use of. Now the question is whether we will continue to deny it, whether we will continue to treat them as we treat them not to invest them out of patriotism but to invest there because they want to make profit and nothing else. And the other thing, if one foreign company is setting up a company in Croatia, is the question of what is its legal status. And even if it were like you said, I'm against the fact that successful Croats pay dividend taxes and strangers don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92013	A new replica of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92014	Thank you very much. Well, here, I'm going to be riding on a fellow Pandek even though I didn't know what he was going to say to you, Mr. Schucker, telling you about foreign pensions that they shouldn't be taxed, and they shouldn't be taxed, or they shouldn't be considered income. That's very important. I don't know how much you know that more than 30% of Croatian citizens outside the Republic of Croatia who go to a well-deserved pension don't bring that pension to Croatia but leave it to countries where they earned it. Also, you need to know that the line outside the Republic of Croatia, foreign remittances come every year 4.5 billion kuna. That's very important. The law on residence that you are now talking about and which is very important, and the minister said he would not extend that date, i.e. that he would not adopt a new regulation of more than half a million Croatian citizens would be left without residence status, one large part would be abroad. It is precisely because of this Law on residence that a part of Croatian citizens took their savings from the Republic of Croatia. The new interest law will bring more savings to us from Croatia, and it will be carried to Bosnia and Herzegovina, that is, Serbia. What kind of message are we sending to the diaspora? Why don't we think in a different way exactly as you said. Since the beginning of these three years, this government has actually made a series of laws to make life difficult for them, i.e. this Law on residence and other laws on the active registration of voters turn them into second-class citizens, which certainly must not happen, and the potential of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia must be used not only because of economic opportunities but also because of demographic renewal. All this actually affects you to invest what you said, and thus the revenues in the state budget, which the finance minister also has to take a lot of account of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92015	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92016	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Babić, in the opening part, I said that when the government adopts such laws, it must be very well analyzed, well thought out what its effects are on various segments of society. In all such laws, Croatia must not simply close its eyes on its diaspora. Croatia is the third or fourth country in Europe, given the number of inhabitants as a percentage of how many diaspora we have, so if they add up, those third and fourth generations I think unfortunately we are if not the first then the second. And you need to see how Ireland, Italy treats their diaspora, how they use it. And we all liked to highlight Ireland as the country that made the boom. For all, Ireland was an example, and greenfield investments. And who were the bearers of these greenfield investments? With both capital and experience and knowledge and with its recommendations was Irish emigration. And if it hadn't been for that, regardless of political support from the EU, Ireland would never have looked like that. The question now arises why Croatia in a situation where it does not use the potential of its evicted Croatia. Because those evicted from Croatia really want to help, they want to find their own interest in Croatia it is important, their experience, their knowledge and ultimately their capital brought to Croatia. Well, if it's more of a tax strike and you mentioned this residence bill. He will strongly encourage, unfortunately, many Croats to take their money from Croatian banks elsewhere. It will also kill their every hope of trying to resolve their further existence and life in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92017	New replica and Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92018	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I hope it won't be a breach of the Rules of Procedure if I warn this occasion of the difficulties facing rural areas and, of course, in some ways, the stability of the village is threatened. In fact, with these changes, there will certainly be more trouble, and I want to warn those who make such decisions that they do not seem to be, and we have a nice expression in the Podravina that says, "Just find help." But I agree with you fellow Shucker, where you say the structure of the budget of the local self-government unit is such that it doesn't leave much space, and the obligation is much. You have led them in order, so only if we start from that preschool education from the kindergartens you were talking about, so I personally witnessed with as much will, are the wishes of many of our leaders of local self-government units working, creating, building and kindergartens so that our children have a certain quality of preschool education, and now with this way it comes into question. But of course there's a chance she can tell this to her parents right now, and the price will be up. And I ask from what point of view when we know what levels, that it is a agricultural population that simply doesn't have and, by the way, be said that now these days when the heads of the local self-government unit suffers from the budget, that almost that item helps families and households on the basis of social far more and more every day. There must be other areas to talk about. Yesterday I was talking about fire, so to preserve those values, those hips. Well, that's all in our rural areas, and now it's going to come to the same question. This does not contribute to the even development of our country. Of course, it is also a strategic threat, not to mention what they were talking about on the EU Charter of Local Self-Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92019	Thank you. The replica matches Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92020	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As head of a small unit of local self-government, you have actually confirmed what our club says. We are not against tax cuts and pay increases to Croatian citizens, but we are concerned about how units of local self-government will function. The more due to the economic crisis, the revenue from the municipal contribution and the municipal compensation has fallen drastically, the structure of the budget of the poorer and smaller units of local self-government is such that income from income tax accounts for over 60% of the original income. And the logical thing, if the share of social care is reduced, if the share of the county to finance primary education and it finance primary education in smaller environments, then it is questionable what the standard of these students will be regardless of the fund for... and decentralisation. Because the question is whether or not, and you saw the draft budget for next year, the funds for decentralised functions have been increased maybe by about 200 million kuna. Can this cover everything that's been taken? But it is also not good to wait for the 15th or that in the month when the money from the state budget will come to pay some expenses in primary and secondary education and to pay the costs of social care. Therefore, we, I repeat, do not know which time, for the tax discharge of Croatian citizens and thus the increase in salaries but should have taken care of the poorest that they may pay the most, and this is no matter how much they will get, those who have 13 000, 14 000 kuna, whether it is 500 or 800 or 1000 kuna. That we are against the fact that we are being paid by parliamentarians and officials, we should do the same for officials in local and regional self-government units. That's our party's political stance. But we are afraid that units of local self-government will function since they have been taken from them over 2 billion and 200 million kunas of tax revenue.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92021	And the last replica, the honored vice president of Dom Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92022	Thank you, Vice President. It's very nice to listen to you fellow Shuker when you're discussing as a financier, a man can hear a lot, learn from both practice and experience. But what I'm saying is that I disagree with most of your debate, especially in the part where you said they would probably collect services in cities and municipalities. You probably meant city and municipal taxes. Why? The question is from the head of local self-government and also from representative bodies. What can be read from your part is the question now and before these reforms and those, this part of which will be amended by the Finance Act where one part of income income from income tax will be increased, the question of sustainability of individual environments, municipalities and cities. That's where we can agree, that we should have started before. But you also missed 2008 after the adoption of the Regional Development Act then talked about how it would go into decentralisation and practically make more of a drop in money into local self-government units. That it is not so simple and that it is a process that has to go through it anyway and this government is aware, but it does not mean that it is necessary to increase the burden on citizens with the basis of city and municipal taxes. I can understand the existence of some problems regarding the financing of kindergartens, etc., but we are returning to the issue of sustainability of certain environments. And I can agree in part, not perhaps from this part of the debate, that a reform of local self-government is necessary. So it is definitely not necessary in the current situation that local self-government or representative bodies are additionally burdened on the basis of this income reduction from income tax to their citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92023	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92024	Dear counterpart Batinic, Vice-President of this High House, we agree in principle only that you have unfortunately tried as head of local self-government to find a model to support what the government is proposing. I, unlike you, have the opportunity as an opposition politician and as former head of local self-government and head of the Resolute Ministry to say some things without brakes. Why? So taught by all the good and bad experiences in the past years. So, the problem of decentralisation of Croatia is not controversial, just look Croatia has agreed that consumer taxes and capital taxes, I mean profit, are the income of the state, and income tax is the income of local self-government units. And also income paid as a communal fee as a tax is the same income from local self-government units as that contribution to the construction of municipal infrastructure. Therefore, if it moves into the decentralisation process, it is not a problem if you lower your obligations to bring down the rights, but it does not fall here, and the rights are very much taken. And that's the key problem. So we take 2 billion and 200, but we don't take 2 billion and 200 out of 50 billion, we take 2 billion and 200 out of 10, 11 billion kuna, from those funds. So we take on average between 17% and 20% of local self-government units. But I repeat, what concerns me is the structure of the local budget. You therefore participate in the financing of kindergartens, communal compensation, municipal contribution, money from the sale of apartments must be used for purpose. You can't use them for other expenses. And from these funds, both decentralised and income tax shares are financed by the very most sensitive groups of society in one unit of local self-government. So, from preschool age, from children in primary and secondary schools, social care, health care and fire departments. And believe me, these 1.3% weren't enough for the public fire departments to have them, but they've been patching up barely the measles, and you're now reducing them practically by 0.3 percentage points or 30%.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92025	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. It's the third club, it's the club of Independent Representatives, and Damir Cain will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92026	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. Yeah, in short, when we talk about this bill of wages, it should theoretically increase by a million and 200 thousand workers. Not only theoretically, it will increase clearly by a large number of workers. So this bill proposes to increase the personal deduction from 2200 to 2600 kuna per month, the personal deduction of pensioners from 3400 to 3800 kuna per month, and the change of tax classes in a way that the tax rate of 25% will apply to the difference of tax base between 2200 and 13200 kuna. And that's pretty much the point. This law certainly has its price, the price of this law is a billion and eight hundred million kuna. This price, it's clear to all of us, will mostly be over-drawn to the budgets of local self-government. What this will specifically mean is the vista of those compensatory measures to which to take it is another story. The proceeds, and we must be clear, the Republic of Croatia amounts to 114 billion kuna, these 550 or 570 local self-government 21.9 billion kuna. Someone mentioned that plan 21, those 10% that should be raised to 20%, it simply wasn't true then because three years ago the income of local self-government was 17 or 18%. I agree that we are here in some way in an anvil between higher salaries for one million and two hundred thousand Croatian citizens or workers and incomes from local self-government. If someone's trying to decentralize Croatia, it's me. That Croatia is regionalised as well. No, not only that, but I am sure that the complete structure of local self-government, but not only the structure, but also that revenue side returns if possible, and I know that this is impossible, to the level that local self-government looked like by the 90th year for the simple reason that Croatia and our local units were developing the fastest. At the time, Croatia and its municipalities were almost Federative, so to speak. That's how I'm experiencing local self-government today. Secondly, what I'm saying is, you see, I'm saying that by the time I was 90 years old, it was much more free to live, let's be precise, more carefree than it was today, the media were absolutely freer at least when it came to Istria, the fear was smaller, nepotism was almost gone, it was known that the boss couldn't be the police if you weren't in a party or catastra, or a waterworks, or an oil pipeline but today if you weren't in a party you couldn't get that trimmer to mow the grass along the road if you weren't a member of the ruling structure. Crime, etc. I won't talk. So I'm not gonna raise my hand, for example. for the loss of mountain-mounted status, but among other things, the serious crisis generator in Croatia is on the one hand the formation of the state and on the other hand the local self-government. Once again, the country's 114 billion kuna income with loans to 130 billion kuna, the income of local self-government, 21.9 billion kuna. Let me also say that since the crisis on here, the number of employees in the upgrade has increased by 22,000, wages by about 3 billion kuna, from 37 to 40 billion kuna, they went to upgrade while in the real sector, the number of employees from the crisis to here has been reduced by 120,000 people, and net wages are less than 8 billion kuna. And it is clear that this is no longer the case and that in some way the state and local self-government must be serious. It is also clear that this law is in some way an electoral law, e.g. If you get 100 kunas more salary a month times 12 months it's 1200 kuna, if you get 300 times 12 it's about 3600 kuna and it's kind of supposed to go out in this part. The state of whatever someone thinks 95% of the funds simply has the funds allocated, these are payments primarily loans, interest rates, there are pensions, there are salaries for more than 250 thousand people, in health care, in the police, I don't know the state administration, etc. There's social security, there's management, and there's almost no development. On the other hand, local self-government should also be reformed because not every municipality can do everything and should be clearly lowered from the other side of the funds but also told. On the one hand, we have an Italian-French model so it is a model that knows the size of municipalities such as in Croatia where all are more or less volunteers or we have that Danish-English model where the municipalities are incomparably larger than they were in the Republic of Croatia by the 1990s. It works both ways while Croatia unfortunately has none of each other and we are deliriously sinking. When we talk about some costs that could also be cut, cut at a local level, so let's just say, I'll just mention the County of Istria case. The representation of millions and four hundred thousand kuna, for the media 4.2 million kuna per year, intellectual services 7.9 million kuna, for phones 5.1 million kuna I'm sure the government doesn't spend that much, for tires 750 thousand kuna, 1200 tires are bought annually, computer services of 2.9 million kuna in one word material costs 99 million kuna, salaries 66 million kuna, and offices in New York, etc. I just don't want to talk. And all of this has to be done again when it comes to Istria multiplying times 4 or 5 because in Istria with the County of Istria it is similar elsewhere, we have 10 cities and 31 municipalities. So this law, that's what we're going to support on the mountainous mountainous area, we're going to see what those compensations mean, but to me it means a huge loss for that rural Istria, and I'm certainly not going to raise my hand to it. This law somewhere could suffer a 70-million-dollar loss from Istria, perhaps 80 million kuna. For example, the county will run out of 20 million kuna, the city of Pula if I'm not mistaken for nearly 25, 26 million kuna, it doesn't matter, 27, and it's really going to be a big blow, but I also consider the items I mentioned that there is a certain reserve. Is it better that local self-government somehow tries to compensate for these 60, 70 million kunas or simply toss itself to these PRs, that every day in the County of Istria is spent on the team, every working day, 3999 kuna, why didn't they round to 4, I don't know, or that somewhere around 6.5 thousand each working day is spent on that team? And that's what citizens need to know, and I will always choose citizens between citizens and this waste. Between this state and local self-government, I'm going to choose to re-establish the state and clear local self-government. But very briefly, the money just doesn't exist. I agree, among other things, that this is electoral law, no one thinks the same thing that 2000 and, I don't know, 15, the deficit is going to be 12 billion kuna. That's just funny, gentlemen. So today it's 19 plus the municipal deficit of these companies, it could be around 22 billion kuna. And they'll be so sure in 2015, and the sobering will probably come sooner or later in '16. So it is certain that local self-government will find itself incomparably difficult problems than it is today, but I would also like to know how many people are employed down here, for example in 2013 and the first 7, 8, 9 or 10 months of this year. Somewhere according to the data we have, close to a hundred people, it's 10 million kunas more for wages only in these two years than it was for two years ago. For what? The election services are returning, gentlemen. And just now, the minister said that in 2008, we have 35 thousand 311 employees in local self-government, and 2013. 42 thousand 392, that means about 7,000 people more. That the salaries from a billion to 600 million kuna increased to 2.1 billion kuna and the cost for employees from 2.1 billion to 2.6 billion kuna. What's important, clearly, is that in some way you compensate for the loss of a billion and 800 million kunas simply that's impossible compensation, but if someone is given someone else, it's clear, it should be taken. Someone suggested, I think Anteo Milos yesterday at this mayoral rally that it should be done among other agricultural land. I absolutely am that the agricultural land is managed by local self-government, but those politicians who, so to speak, have reached a hectare and a hectare of that agricultural land, in the meantime urbanised, have started to resell, and today it is worth millions and millions of euros, and they need to be audited and taken away, and the peasant should be given blood if necessary. What we need to know the same thing, little employers, 100 thousand are in the Republic of Croatia. They employ 420 thousand people, I read 2,000 more of them, they're under quotes, blacklists, so they don't pay their wages. Now we have the meaning of every 10 small employer who's in such a situation. Entrepreneurs are on their way out, small businesses are in front of bankruptcy, small companies are enormously in charge of 72 billion kuna. These people have everything on mortgages, and I agree that there's a way to boost consumption, whether this is the best model, I don't know, but it's one of the models. It's also true what someone said, that those who have a salary in the net amount I doubt they'll feel any correction in part of the pay, but for the end of a million and 200 thousand workers might have some higher salary, local self-government will lose serious money, that's right, there should work now on compensation, but that means that someone else will be taken, but we all agree that everything needs to be simply rationalized, and reduced. And this law, another sentence, has one good addition. So this Income Act in 2015, the Tax Administration will be able to hit on citizens who have no cover for acquired assets in receipts. So, the law here provides for taxation of the difference between the estimated value of assets and income at 40%. However, in my view, it is not enough to tax them, they should simply take away all that they illegally acquired, and not through such one... the form of the same rehabilitation because it turns out that in this country they can do whatever they want, but in the end they will come again some day when you will pay something for what you, by human or God's laws, should not belong to you and that in this way, you will legalize your own... unlawfully, I do not know what kind of behavior. Yes, once again I will say, for the Law on mountainous mountainous areas, I will not raise my hand, but this law will simply support if for nothing, and then in the belief that a million and 200 thousand people will receive some greater work-based compensation. But to strengthen, decentralisation, regionalise Croatia, this certainly is not the way to do so should simply persist.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92027	Thank you. Today we're obviously going to work deep into the night because we have 11 replicas on this exhibit. The first one will have a respected Tatjana Šimac-Bonacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92028	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I certainly agree with you, colleague Cain, that we should advocate full decentralisation, not only of obligation but of natural fiscal decentralisation. You said that this law that the price falls on the account of the unit of local self-government, we heard today also very often that this is a direct blow to the budget of the units of local self-government. We can say that this is because the most recent income of the local self-government units is that it is somewhat accurate. On the one hand, however, we can say that units of local self-government are losing, but on the other hand they are getting. When you look at the elimination of dividend relief up to 12,000 kunas and the share in profits that were not previously taxed. We can also say that let's not forget the fiscalisation because we had increased traffic and increased consumption tax and increased income, of course all of this goes to local self-government units. Now we're talking about losses, but we can't tell how many local units of local self-government will lose. When you look at us, we get the sum, but how much do we have? Angers who receive lower wages, higher wages, etc. That's what's so obvious about saying I don't know 9, 10% that we're gonna lose to the local budget. Therefore, I believe that the measures must be seen in the package, that a series of measures that are filled with the budgets of the local self-government units have already been brought in, and will be brought in as we hear an announcement of assistance from those who lose the most local self-government units that lose the most. And another thing, we are now in the EU, there are exchanges of data on the incomes of natural persons achieved in other countries. So this is where the tax bases spread, too. And finally, I agree with you that there is still much, much more to be done in our country, and this law is also one of the laws that actually introduces order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92029	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92030	Oh, God, let's get the order in. The fact is let's not just paint a blow here will be on local self-government and it's a serious blow. Why? Because they're kind of going to lose a billion $800 million, with these compensatory measures that are proposed in these laws or in this set we're going to get to 400 million kuna, so minus is somewhere a billion and 400 million kuna. It's one serious blow as far as the same, it's just a loss somewhere around 6% of the total income of local self-government. I agree that there's a reserve there, that there's order to be done, but both in local self-government and in the state, and then maybe everyone's gonna get better. However, this is also the fact that what is happening in the country, which is far closer to the cameras or the light of the reflectors, it is constantly on impact, while in some other environments it can literally do whatever it wants and according to that logic, especially if institutions are networked, local self-government, state, DORH, police, etc. Then we have what we have.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92031	New replica, respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92032	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You said that this law is an electoral law, interpreting it primarily by increasing the salaries of about a million people will get a higher salary, so it's a year before the parliamentary elections by you a kind of promotion of this government and coalition, therefore the electoral law. But when we look at local self-government and the losses created by this law, then it is counter-election law for local self-government leaders because they will probably raise prices in their local self-governments and kindergartens and everything else. So it's my opinion, and you've listed some parts already, that in fact it's also in the state but also in local self-government it's about waste and unreasonable consumption. I spoke to Minister Lalovec yesterday informally outside this hall and I told him that it would be best if he went into one room and crossed out the items in the state budget himself because what we read about immaterial expenditures in all paragraphs we see that these are huge items in spending in the state budget. Also in local self-government units, and you cited an example of Istrian County, here in Slavonski Brod all city companies have two directors. Why? Because of the political consolidation of forces in the city council itself, both sides have one director in each company to be a wolf full of goats. But that costs the citizens of Slavonski Brod another salary of the director for which the citizens must pay the taxpayers. These things happen in many units of local self-government, and I think there's room for savings in both state and local self-government units. This waste, this unreasonable consumption is like the consumption of drunk rich people who are unaware of the situation in which we are also in the state of many ministers, as well as the head of local self-government units. So people are still unconscious and don't understand the situation we're in. And not living on a high foot is another thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92033	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92034	We're almost totally just getting along. It's got reserves, it's got to be saved at all levels. It doesn't matter if it's about the state, whether it's about local self-government, whether it's about utility companies, whether it's about agencies, whether it's about NGOs that are being singled out at the annual level in Croatia, if I'm not mistaken 4 or 5 billion kuna. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] 3 billion pardons, ok, 3, a little. Soon it's going to be 4 or 5. I, once again, do not have to seem blind, this law and the Electoral Law, but the fact that this law will still allow a theoretical million and 200 thousand workers to receive a higher salary. On the other hand, I cannot understand why people who run local units would raise prices in kindergartens, why a more expensive municipal fee should be the next day, or why it should be more expensive and such an overpriced price of water. Well, let them spend a little less. Here, for example. Just one piece of information. I don't know how many PR agencies in the county 4 million 163 thousand 637 kuna now. Four million 163,000. If you multiply that times 31 municipalities plus 10 cities, we come gentlemen up to 15, maybe more, 16 million kuna. In one term of 60 million kuna times three or four mandates, we come to the price of a general hospital under the roof. It can't do that anymore, and people in Istria need to know and that the Croatian public must know that this is simply the kind of behavior that is unacceptable, at the border of crime itself. Somewhere else in Croatia, in Istria, it continues to be thrown away.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92035	Thank you. Time. The third replica, the esteemed Nenad Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92036	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In your discussion, you mentioned that you are in favour of decentralisation of Croatia, that you are against the abolition of the Law on the mountainous area and that we can agree and that I would also add decentralisation of Croatian forests because Croatian forests are a state in the country. When Croatian forests were managed as once at the level of forest economies, local self-government units were left with much more resources, thus building roads and schools and kindergartens and firehouses, playgrounds, then we would not be so bothered by the reduction of units of local self-government from income tax. However, one thing I cannot agree with because you will support this law because I wonder if this reform will really increase the standard of citizens, because by reducing the funds to units of local self-government, the local self-government unit will have to compensate for these funds from other sources in order to make it possible for citizens to pay additionally, then, communal compensation and taxes and kindergartens and so forth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92037	Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92038	If someone asks me, I've been talking there for over 20 years and clearly that the formation of local self-government is somehow going back to what we had and what it looked like in 1990. At the time, Croatia was the most decentralised, but it developed the fastest. Meanwhile, circumstances have changed significantly. We can't talk about incomes remaining from taxes, but we have to keep in mind, for example, a contribution at the level of a local unit. when we talk about Istria 7800 salaries financed from the state budget plus 1,400 of those in the police. There's 48 000 pensions, there's social services and so on. Yes, once again I will say, Croatia was the fastest to develop in that structure by the year '90, but then there were 600,000 pensioners, today millions and 200, then there were 2 million workers, today a million 400 and some thousand, don't take my word for it. As far as the mountain-mounted area is concerned, I am absolutely against the law being touched or the law being corrected. It's not just the income of local self-government in this law, but the thing is that citizens in that area had the right to return, I don't know how much it was in Buzet, maybe 1200, 1500 kuna, but it's a significant income per employee or pensioner. Well, not every pensioner had such a way and there remained special funds or better said reliefs that were reserved for our entrepreneurs. One, two, three, it simply pushed the end forward, and I think it would do enormous damage to these mountain-mounted areas if the law was questioned, even though someone would say that...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92039	Thank you. Replica, Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92040	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Cain, in your discussion, you looked back and colleague Boro Grubisic here said that this law and electoral law. I can agree in one part, but we must also demystify what this law provides. When we talk about wages, then we have 60,000 workers who are on minimum wage and they will pay more net wages based on this law, from 13 kuna to 30 kuna. We have those with a gross salary of 4000 to 13000 kuna, which on average, depends on personal deductions, will reach about 180 kn on average on net salary. Those between 13,000 and 20,000 will earn a higher salary of 350 to 1000 kuna. And now that we put it into real frames, those who have little will get very little, and those who have a lot will get a lot more. The point of this whole law is practically not to get everyone, because some will get very little but to get statistical data, so we will have an average net salary higher and thus boast this government that the net salary has increased. And how many really workers got that the minister used to say these over 13000 is a very small number that will actually make some bigger wages. And that's the truth of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92041	The replica matches Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92042	Yeah, right. Not only that, but those who have a salary in the net I doubt they'll feel any correction in the part of the pay. It will be almost impossible, especially when we know what an economic situation a small entrepreneur is in the Republic of Croatia. I told you before about the pay phone, we have 100,000 people, so these little entrepreneurs who hire about 420,000 workers. I said there's 2,000 more of them in the last few months. Now there's a total of 9,000 who got on that blacklist so they wouldn't pay their salaries. Well, they're not our entrepreneurs, as I would say, in Istria they'd say Farabuts, or bandits. They've just found themselves in a situation where they're exhaling, small businesses are bankrupt. I said that small companies are enormously in charge of over 70 billion kunas, that these people have everything mortgaged. And I dare say that the material situation of these people is running these little shops, twists, etc. And harder than even the workers who work with them. But for the end of another million and 200 thousand workers could theoretically have a slightly higher salary. The fact is, local self-government is about to lose. There's a million and 800, a million and 400 with compensation measures being built on, which again means someone else needs to be taken. But we all agree that the system must be rationalized as we also see that those who have the least gross amounts will get little, those who have the greater will get much more. I won't say much, for Croatian occasions it must be significant. And if all of this together will stimulate consumption remains to be seen.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92043	A new replica and a respected Furio Radin. Turn off Cain, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92044	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to say it in a nice way so I don't insult anyone. 20 years will be next year that we are together in this House, colleague Cain. Since those 20 years, you've been saying the opposite of this for almost 17 years. I'd feel uncomfortable if I were you. How is that possible? Are you asking yourself that question a few times? How is it possible that I was one for 17 years, and now I'm the opposite of that, I turned the saw on the dumb side and I drank bluntly and I kept going. How is it possible that all those figures you said and about the PRs, these, those were denied yesterday, the day before yesterday at the County of Istria Assembly, like all those things that would have turned out to have been drugged and you keep saying that. The Chief of Police, Mr. Dragutin Cesar, has denied all this, and you're still saying so. So you went back inside, had two beers, so you made a mess, so you got kicked out of the congregation. Comrade Cain, I feel sorry for you. Don't speak that way against your environment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92045	Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92046	Furio, don't feel sorry for me. I don't feel at all uncomfortable, and I've been saying the same thing for 20 years, the same way. And I think we should feel uncomfortable about those who robbed Istria and our cities. Nothing the Chief of Police has denied me, nothing. You're lying! You lie everything, you lie everything, and I feel proud of what I'm saying. But those who have privatized all of Istria over the past few years should feel very concerned. And now that you mention the PRs or the media, I'll mention the following. The County of Istria, since you are not ashamed, spent a million and 899 000 kuna in 2008, 2009. 2 million and 200, 2010 million and 900, 2011 two and three hundred, 2012 two and five hundred. For the first 10 months, 2 million 134 thousand kuna, and by the end of the year you have to spend on your PR painting characters and works 4 million 163 thousand 637 kuna. Well, it's a crime, it's a robbery, and the people of Istria deserve it. Istra, because of this kind of behavior, is falling apart. Crime, nepotism, drugs and normal bank robbery and turning the public into a private one.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92047	A new replica of Walter Boluncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92048	Here, thank you. I'm from Pula, I hope you won't be afraid of you or others after this coming to Istria, so you can buy a vest when you cross Ucka. As for the number... But the figures Mr. Cain says are really startling. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The city of Pula has decreased from 2006 to today by 25% from over 200 to 180. The city of Pula for wages is 10.8% and it is known to be up to 20%. The city of Pula is the winner of a prize not given by someone from Istria, but from the outside for socially useful management, the first city to get it. The towns of Pula, Labin and others are always among the first three regarding the transparency of work. The County of Istria, no matter what others claim in the past, has grown to 158 as far as the development index is concerned, and has left behind another Primorje-Gorski where it has been said that the gap is shrinking. As for the PR, Mr. Damire Cain, you do not remember your friend, the president of the Pula SDP Feric, where until yesterday, from the SDP area, you had every day a conference against IDS, which is the same director of the Croatian lottery that has since become a million and 700 thousand kunas higher on the PR, of which once it was not given, it began to give money to the press, the media and others in Istria. But that was useful to you because they followed you every day. I think if you in the national media in the last year find one single positive contribution to IDS without saying that it looks only negative then you deserve next to this one pension you have another to have a quiet age when you're already citizens of Istria don't want to be mayor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92049	Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92050	Well, there's a colleague there who's also on that same pension or who's going to be the same one someday. And, of course, I'm against this if Mr. Feric did it, but since we're already on some data, in 2001 Istria was 20% or 27% ahead of the Primorje-Gorski County, and today it's 2%. We were somewhere 18% behind Zagreb, today we're 36%. What are we talking about? It's simply collapsing, it's stagnating, it's doing this policy that you present amongst other things. IDS is part of the ruling coalition. Well, Miletic could have made one phone call, let's say he corrected this law. Didn't the Minister of the IDS, Mr. Lorencin, of the Government, raise his hand to this law? Between an increase in salaries by a million and 200 thousand workers and a waste of funds, whether it's government or state ministries, whether it's local self-government, I'm going to make it clear that I'm always going to be an object to the workers. Before Shuker said a nice sentence, I think it's a massacre, a massacre of local self-government. But how do you massacre lobster cards, shrimp, lambs, oysters, quails, young veal, squid, ordnance, bran, I don't think it seems anywhere. Unfortunately, cards pay for something else. What's no shame when the city of Pula, millions and 800,000 kuna, spends on the purchase of lighting lamps, I guess, times people to containers, and there's no book? Isn't it a shame that he's putting out six million kunas for lighting giants or what it's called a pulse lift and it's not for... kids and I'm not counting any further. Keep massacred Istria and on. And then this animal world, this flora, leave the fauna alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92051	Time. Thank you. A new replica, Hrvoje Neklic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92052	That fellow Cain, a million and 200 thousand employees will receive higher wages. Here is because you mentioned Istria, a colleague of Grubisic Slavonski Brod, I will take the same right to mention the municipality from which I come, the Municipality of Đurdjevac. They can also point out this problem where strong money is spent on teams, where lunches are spent, on foster homes, where council fees are unreasonablely high, where councilors are at no time ready to give up their fees, and on the other hand, without thinking, raise taxes to citizens, raise taxes to companies, raise the prices of kindergartens. And, of course, for all of that, their alibi is state. And they're accusing the government of all this. I believe that this way of thinking of local powers is not good and that everything that is possible to change on this matter should be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92053	The replica matches Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92054	There is no reason for any correction to any more municipal expenditure compared to the existing one. Local self-government should be rationalized but the state should regionalise or form try to return to where it was until the 1990s. But once again I'm going to say the total revenues of local self-government, pardon the state, 114 billion kuna, local self-government 21.9. With this going down about a billion and 400, maybe a billion and 800, but I mean a billion and 400. After all, it's a loss of 6% or 7%. It's a serious blow when we talk about local self-government. But once again, I stress there is no reason for this wastelessness at least when it comes to Istria that any municipal standard is collected. It doesn't make sense that someone singles out a five point something million kuna for phones, 750 thousand kuna for tires, 7.9 million kuna for intellectual non-existent services. It doesn't make sense that 4.2 million kunas for the PRs and the media, and when we multiply that by all units of local self-government, we come up with about 80, 90 million of these inflatable costs. This is how no one rational in this country should behave, nor should those who have received the citizens' trust to manage those environments. Clear to the citizens' trust is due to a small turnout, large coalitions, and huge money, above all this media, PR money, or money that stands out for it. But every force of time so probably some things will change elsewhere in the Republic, not just down there.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92055	New replica, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92056	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you mentioned local self-government a lot in your debate, and I agree with you that we should consider ways in which to reform our local self-government and do it as effectively as possible, at least as regards us as legislators. However, you mentioned that we have a French, more or less French model of local self-government one micro level of local self-government, or some micro-management I would call it so that it could be a double sword, so it could be a good thing, it could be a bad thing. And as in everything and here is the greatest emphasis on people. You've got community chiefs doing a great job, you've got those who don't do almost anything and take the pay. So, first of all, it's the human factor that determines. But when you talk about local self-government here I agree with you, what really bothers me is that in some cases local self-government can only stare at the state and cannot reform and rationalise its costs. We have a very fresh example from Osijek-Baranja County where there are some things that haven't been going on for 20 years, and that's like rounding up a pharmaceutical institution going back on its nose. Why? Why now? Why back on your nose? So far no one's bothered, three directors, three boards of directors. Our health homes are still separated, 6 health homes, 6 directors, 6 boards, etc. etc. etc. And we can count another thousand of those examples. For example, let's actually give local self-government the opportunity to change things from the inside, and this law, or the loss of a certain portion of income, may also be an incentive for things to start happening faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92057	The replica matches Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92058	The problem is, first of all, what's in the state, the upgrade doesn't matter if it's municipal enterprises, local self-government, agencies or the state that's been employed since the start of the crisis here, in school, in healthcare, okay, everything needs to be done, 22,000 people. That's why 3 billion kunas should be allocated for gross wages only. At 37 we came 40, while on the other hand the number of real sector employees fell by 120,000 kuna, net salary for -8 billion kuna. Earlier, the minister said that in local self-government from 2008 to 2013, the number was increased from 30 employees, from 35 311 to 42 392 or for salaries, salaries were raised by a billion and six million kuna, meaning those 7 thousand for a billion and six million kuna, and the remaining one billion and sixth were the difference from about 14 thousand that were employed in the rule of law in the state. This is some ratio, i.e. the cost of employees from 2.1 billion kuna to 2.6 billion kuna. However, there is another good part of this law, which is that the new Income Act of 2015 will be able to "hit" on citizens who have no cover for acquired property. Although I personally believe that they need to be taken away from the property, people are imprisoned and not rehabilitated through this kind of tax pay, and that's better than nothing on this matter is done.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92059	And the last replica of the esteemed Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92060	Comrade Cain, the citizens are getting worse, the state is in a banana and a large part of the opposition is defending the government and the state structure, and local self-government as if honey and milk flow, as if responsibility were not on either one and the other as if it were so bad. But when we talk about local self-government, someone thinks of bureaucracy, someone thinks of what you think of Jacobic's followers, someone thinks not of the forest but of the forest of municipalities and cities, but we should first think of the functions that local self-government performs and how it will deal with reduced resources. An example is the homes of a retired man who loses a lot of money. Will it mean raising the price of staying at home by 50 or 100%? Will the pensioners who have 2,000 kuna pensions and have worked 30, 40 years now pay 4 000 for what? They'll pay for the kids. Which one? Those who receive 3,000 kunas of wages, have two children and cannot pay for the directing? And what are you gonna do with these people, throw them on the street? Have you thought about what to do with the third population, what to them? Some will be able to pay, most won't be able to pay, most now don't have enough pension to pay their homes. It's just one of a series of problems for which no solution was found before it went into this procedure. And there's another, it won't be an incentive, there's no incentive. The second is excessive democracy, the second is reluctant, the second is ineffectiveness, but there are real problems people will face in a few months.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92061	The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92062	This law certainly has a shortage and I say it all the time, but between citizens and this waste, it doesn't matter if it's a state, local self-government, our utility companies, I'm on the side of the citizens. Let us ask them what they think about it. Between this state and local self-government, I'm choosing to rebuild both state and local self-government, but very briefly, there's just no more money. The responsibility when you mention it is probably common or should be shared between you, me, the people who are in power, who have ministers in that government from IDS, HSU I don't know HNS, SDP until the opposition. I just don't think there's a simple need for new accusations, though. To date, the country's income ratio, the local self-government was 114 to 21.9 billion, now it's going to fall, it's going to be a huge blow to local self-government, it's going to be in serious trouble, but I'm also saying there's just no need for any price correction up there. If someone can single out a million and 800 thousand kunas, we say down for..., to edit these squares, before Christmas, or New Year, well to God, then there must be some other reserves, without talking about this party employment that simply offends all residents of the individual space. I said from, and I'm just connecting to these seven thousand more employees from 2008 to 2013, let Istria only participate with those 4.5%, what is that? It's about 7, 8, 7 times, it's about 300 people who, at the very least, have found jobs in local self-government and municipal services.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92063	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, the respected Kresimir Bubalo will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92064	Thank you very much, Deputy President. My colleagues and colleagues, we have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act with the final draft of the law, but according to us at the HDSSB club, it could have been three laws. In fact, a few things change in this law, but some things are being introduced and new, so we were supposed to have three legal solutions. First of all, when it comes to income tax, tax returns change, personal deductions from 2200 to 2600, etc., so we have classes and that's the part we can support. However, always looking at changes in the tax classes and the possibility of getting higher salaries in Croatia, then you should see if you can or can't do it in Croatia. That's the first question we're looking for to answer, but when we see units of local and regional administration being cut off by 2 billion kuna, then surely there's a big question mark above our heads. The second part refers to savings at a 12% rate, and I think that's a single unit, because by introducing something that we weren't obliged to introduce to the EU, which is a income tax on interest and looking at savings in the Republic of Croatia, we can say that 2% of people are holding 75% of savings in the Republic of Croatia and looking at the introduction of this tax law, then we could say that we are for the introduction of savings tax because exactly 2% of citizens are saving, and 98% of them barely survive, and we know that the good part can't survive and go on bread outside of the Republic of Croatia. As we look at that tax, then we have to say that those midwives who have been saving for post-mortem aid or some who use it as children for some college, therefore should have given criteria and perhaps some amount minimal, whether it's 20, 30, or 50,000 kuna. Maybe it shouldn't have been covered or had to be covered by a smaller class. So we're for rich people's taxes, but not that poor girl and that little old lady who's been collecting for years. Furthermore, this bill proposes to tax capital gains from 01 January 2016. In addition, the Commission notes that, in the light of the above considerations, the Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (‘the EEA Agreement’), which is compatible with the internal market in the form of State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the In Croatia, there are not many capital gains, but looking at what is happening in Croatia, looking at the macroeconomic environment, looking and not having money, no spending, no economic growth, Croatia is in recession, we have a GDP drop... at 15% level and looking at personal consumption, but also what we can simulate that it will happen in the next period, when this legal solution is applied from 01.01.2015, then we can say that the target is shot and I believe in the good intentions of Minister Lalovac, but the target will not be struck. Why do I say that? Because for years I've also worked in local and regional administration units and listening to a minister who may be positive or not, there will be an increase in consumption, maybe he will, maybe he won't, because it's certain that the minister as well as the macroeconomics have to guess what's going to happen, and that's why, always before law-making, quality simulations are needed, and not that, as we've changed from taxes to health services from 15 to 13 and the HDSSB club was against it, and then after a few months, tax policy rises from 13 to 15. There is one wandering, unpreparedness and that is what is not good at running the Republic. Therefore, when it comes to taxes, we must have continuity, not change them day by day. It is our suggestion at the HDSSB club that VAT should be reduced first because this is what has been increased and this should have affected the increase in consumption, but to measure with our neighbours. Because when you look at Serbia with 20%, when you're looking at Bosnia with 17%, Montenegro at 17, when you look at one Germany with 19, Belgium with 21, Bulgaria with 20% VAT, and we don't need to be a 23% example of Greece, then surely that decision should have been reconsidered first, not trying to blur the eyes and reduce or provide an opportunity for people on average to get 50 kuna more on the payroll because it's just being given to those who have, and it's going to be taken to those who don't. Why am I saying that? Because units of local and regional administration, someone mentioned, 555 is, that's the first question, too many are in the Republic of Croatia, there needs to be regionalisation, decentralisation of the Republic of Croatia. But I want to tell the Minister when he compares the data in 2007. - 2011, the number of employees then should not forget that they have just transferred the authority to issue permits and the mass of these other things, in fact, people are being transferred, and local administration units have not really increased the number of people. However, local self-government units care for both transport and European funds and health care and social, cultural, sports, fire departments, schools, kindergartens and business areas, but also about Christmas socialities, resurrections for those in the most difficult situation and to buy children books for those in the most difficult situation. I heard Mr Hajdukovic talk about Osijek-Baranja County earlier, but I would like him to talk about the city of Osijek-Baranja County in the Croatian Parliament, and this law alone will take the city of Osijek 27 million kuna, which means just reducing all of this or that vicious circle if something is reduced, the prices of all municipal services will be increased. So units of local self-government that have since 2008 to date reduced their budget expenditures or budgets by 30%, while at the same time the budget of the Republic of Croatia has grown in the past years then it is seen that we are not all sharing the burden of the crisis and what was happening in the Republic of Croatia in these years. Looking at nearly 2 billion kunas taken from local administration units, I would like to say that they will not be taken from local administration units but will be taken from citizens with a good share of citizens who will be able to draw a line at the end of the year through the reduction of the consumer basket and say that their consumer basket has been smaller, and they have received higher salaries. However, with price increases, we are entering an inflationary circle that will certainly give us big blows, and we see that Croatia will not be able to be in debt in 2016 as well as a good part of the units of local and regional administration that will wear out with this. So I'm thinking that this material that we've got should have been much more content in terms of simulation and the number of what's going to happen in the coming years. But also when this law goes, then I expected that a package of laws and compensatory measures would go parallel to it at the same session, at the same session, and even on the same day, if it is precisely this compensatory measure, then one could draw a line and say the units of local and regional administration would not get that much or get it. But we also know that all units of local administration by 15.11. had to send budgets into the procedure, and we had no guidelines from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So how will they have guidance when the government has not taken compensatory measures? That way you can't work in local and regional administration units. If the government is run, if the Ministry of Finance is run, then we need to see that we have some local leaders, that we also have some local financial supervisors, and that's exactly how we need to think if politics is made and changed from 1.1, and we know that the budgets should be directed to 15.11. then we should have this project and these compensatory measures directed earlier. We have often listened in these discussions today that units of local self-government will run out of funds. However, I remember when this left hand side also advocated the introduction of a property tax, so we probably estimated that with 1.1. it would be a pilot project so that there would be an estimate in Croatia of how many sights of real estate and what units of local self-government could be deployed in the coming time. But looking at this interest tax, I believe that it is not accidentally directed towards the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It might have been more logical to compare ourselves to Hungary, so we went after the banks. But looking at the messages that are coming today to the banks reportedly drop, it seems to me that the first one of the leading banks in the Republic of Croatia is on its way to lower interest at 1.1.2015. That decision is to welcome, and that is probably a sign that we have quite a savings in Croatia. But it is also evident that foreign banks last year amounted to 2 billion euros from the Republic of Croatia. the question of how much in the coming year, as will those non-residents, but also the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, will bring savings. Therefore, seeing that our resources are shrinking, seeing that we will have a reduction in savings in the coming year, we must probably ask ourselves the question of where we will finance all commitments in the Republic and the question of which leverages can be encouraged by the economy and economic recovery. Even before his colleague Schuker talked about 100,000 jobs, it's saddening when young people move from the Republic of Croatia, it's sad when they leave because it's exactly the most promising part of the population. The goal must be maximum employment, and then by looking at this law, we can say that no new job will be opened by this law, but we can also say that compared to the income tax environment, we are somewhat more expensive. And my colleague Linic used to say that maybe another class had to be inserted, to distinguish the rates, and that his proposal was also supported if I thought that more classes were needed. Not everyone can bear the same burden of the crisis, but in this case, it can be seen that those who have higher wages will not feel the crisis, and those who do not work and who have minimum wages exactly with the increase in the consumer basket and will feel the crisis in the next year, they will feel it in their wallet. That's what's gonna be the problem next year. Looking at local and regional administration units that are currently not helpful, but which will apply tools, I am afraid that as well as in the economy, we are also in the system of combined vessels, and this unit of local self-government has been blowing up over the past few years and have come to some threshold where it is likely to cut costs further than reviewing collective contracts and all of the most difficult things that are coming, while reducing their incomes. Therefore, the compensatory measures will not be sufficient and I fear that in the next year with this law, not that we will get more consumption, not that people live better, but that we will encourage units of local and regional administration to increase the price of municipal services, which is not good. Therefore, we are going back to what I said on behalf of the club, we should think about reducing VAT, trying to be with our neighbours in some balance in order to be more competitive, so that we may be stronger because we see that the strategic investment law has not yielded fruit, people have no confidence in our government and investment in the Republic of Croatia, therefore investments are bypassing us, and that is precisely what the minister said that this is not how we are going to attract investment. Not to mention this cutting, as I just said to Osijek 27 million kuna, so that the city of Osijek will have a share in financing European projects, pre-financing and withdrawing funds where we can make 15 out of the kuna. It is a problem expected by local administration units in the coming months and then it is likely that Minister Grcic will come and wonder that we did not withdraw those funds that were in our disposition, and we paid the membership fee. Therefore, the HDSSB club, since several laws are in one law, some things are to be supported, some are not. We'll still have to be restrained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92065	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First respected Hope Cavlović Smiljanec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92066	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Bubalo, I'm going to have to correct you first when you said in your presentation that Croatian citizens will pay their savings tax from 1.1.2015. It's not a savings tax. It's a savings tax. I think that's probably what you left out in your speech, but I think it's very important to say. So from 1.1.2015, you'll be paid interest tax on savings. We're talking about that, and the minister was saying that this tax is paid almost in all countries, not only in the environment but throughout Europe, and I have to say that our 12% tax rate here is far the lowest compared to the other rates. But I will return to the beginning, look, changes to the Income Tax Act and an increase in personal deduction to 2600 kuna for employers and an increase in personal deduction for pensioners means an increase in salary for over a million Croatian workers. I think that's what this law is about. That means an increase in salary. Only 3,000 Croatian builders receive salaries that will be taxed over 40% and do not claim to be eligible for those who have large salaries but on the contrary, it is to help those who have low wages. For the first time in Croatia, a personal deduction that the minimum wage will not be taxed, and also the average salary, and these are the steps made by this government. When we talk about taxation on savings and when we talk about taxation, the introduction of taxation in 2016 of capital gains, so look, to pay tax and to make contributions at the end of the job and the price of work, Croatian workers need to expand the tax base, and you can extend the tax base to the incomes of others who create citizens, so that means income from savings, that's citizens' income. Capital investment gains are the same as citizens' incomes. How and why would these incomes be untaxable if you tax on the other hand the salaries of workers who are extremely low? Therefore, this bill of amendments I think is quite... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92067	Time. My colleagues Cavlović Smiljanec must respect the time. I warned you. Replication response, Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92068	Thank you very much. My colleague Cavlović, normally it is about income on savings and tax payments, we understand, but it is about not having to be applied to the European Union but the HDSSB club supports that those who have it, which is 1 to 2% of the population, especially those with greater savings stakes to tax them, but not that grandmother who may have 2-3 thousand kuna post-mortem benefits, which was a savings, etc. Thus, there should be distinction between those who have none. But again, this law will get those who have, and even more will lose those who do not because the prices of municipal services in local regional administration units will grow. These with minimum amounts do not increase almost anything because... Five thousand kunas are increasing by 54 kunas. Therefore, when we talk about those who have minimum salaries, I am sure that they will go significantly away from the costs and the consumer basket that will be lower. It's by any simulation we've done.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92069	Second replica, respected Marina Lovric-Merzel.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92070	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bubalo, in your speech you said what I think, and I think that the vast majority of the MPs here every law that will ultimately result in an increase in the income of those who least have is always welcome. But I think that here you should see something that has long-term consequences when we speak to units of local and regional self-government, and you as a man who has run both the county and the city, as well as yourself, certainly know that it is not just about increasing the price of municipal compensation, that is, communal activity that will raise prices. It is important to say that municipalities, cities and counties play an extremely important role in encouraging, creating a prerequisite for economic development, and we are all talking about opening new jobs, new employment. Which means that business zones, that municipal infrastructure, that water, sewerage, all that is needed for any investor to come into any municipality and city, will of course knock on their doors to get a construction permit within 45 days, in order for cities, municipalities to decide to release the public contribution that is currently imposed, and their election income is a large, large role of municipalities, cities and counties in economic development. And I think if the counties, cities and municipalities lose a large part of the funds it will not only reflect on school children, on transportation, on communal price, it will not only reflect on support and incentives. Let us not forget that municipalities, cities and counties co-finance interest on craft loans, entrepreneurs, to co-finance agricultural production, that co-financing means one whole set of support that is extremely important for the economic stability of each municipality, city or county. I think he's the one. Thank you very much. [[/Intruder Stazic: Thank you. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92071	Replication response, Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92072	Thank you very much. Well, here's a good part of what Mrs. Merzel said she could just sign, because the local and regional administration units are doing most of the work, receiving investors, talking to them, telling them, co-financed everything from interest I would say to business zones. Therefore, it is the units of local and regional administration that are the economic interest and the desire to invest somewhere. Therefore, they are the first entry of investors into this space. They'll find something difficult to do after the amendment of this law, because one part of the funds will be lost. However, if we were to look at the municipal volume of the municipal contribution of all units of local and regional administration in 2008 and today, then we could clearly detect that we will be tomorrow, which is that the income from the municipal contribution has fallen significantly. So in the years to come, little will be built. The construction operation is on our knees and we detect it as one of the problems. So that's where we have to figure out ways. And what I said yesterday and when making rebalancing in this House, we must have a consensus not only on cutting the expenditure side in the budget, but also on all important capital investments that can multiply the funds, which can create new jobs and that is our imperative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92073	My friend Bubalo, I'm not going to do anything. But for the sake of the public, the local administration unit has been gone for ten years, there are units of local self-government. Just to be as precise as possible. The replica of Nadice Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92074	Thank you, dear Vice President. So in your discussion, you spoke about taxation of savings, then you set an example of a grandmother whose savings will be taxed, and she saves for post-mortem aid. So I think just this kind of dramatization isn't necessary here. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia says that everyone contributes to the functioning of the state in terms of material power. So those who have, they have some excess capital, which means they've got basics, so they've got existential needs, and they're left with some surplus that's saving. Some for certain needs like you said, and some of them live great off interest because they have big savings. And it's really not fair, for a little while there was a colleague, Cavlovic, talking about it. It is not fair for one who works to pay the state tax and up to 100% on his income, while someone is saving, so he has extra capital practically doesn't pay the state or swear taxes. But let's go back quite specifically, for example, to Grandma's case. So, if Grandma was able to save tens of thousands of kuna, not two, three thousand like you said, her interest on the annual level will be 200 kuna. If we multiply that 200 kuna as a base by 12%, that's 24 kuna. So, is it worth dramating about 24 kunas like this? I don't think that's the amount that's going to be a problem for Grandma's 10,000 savings. It's not right to talk like you say.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92075	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92076	Thank you very much. Well, we at the HDSSB club think there are a lot of grandparents in the Republic of Croatia, which means a lot, and I often see it on the ground unlike you in the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92077	Replica, dear Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92078	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Bubalo, you said that, that local administration and self-government are helpless, and that it is a system of combined vessels, so that all of these laws should be looked at as a whole, and that simulations should be built that they have effects on each other, especially when it is put into context that local administration and self-government have run out of income and that it is simply difficult for them to function normally. So here on the one hand is the key that income is exactly what this is about, and what you mentioned about local administration and self-government, or redistribution of actually that income from the state level to this second level. And you mentioned regionalization and decentralisation. However, there is then also to your lesser extent, but also to other discussions, it speaks as an administration at these local levels as what is a key problem and that costs should be cut there. The requirement for decentralisation is simply not in line with the reduction of these, and administrations, since transferring to local administration and self-government will need more people to do the jobs they want to do. So, in that sense, we should also create simulations to see what, what we're actually talking about, so that we finally start talking about it at the factography once, and not on some kind of desert desire. 'Cause also when you're looking at statistics How much does it work? [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] Just another sentence to finish. How much he works in local administration and self-government Croatia is somewhere in the middle of the European average.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92079	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92080	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Tudjman, it's about the law of a pooled vessel. Because just when you cut the units to local and regional levels, then they must either compensate for the measures or increase the prices. So you'll see reflections next year. But when it comes to redistribution of income, first of all, you spoke a little earlier and wondered about regionalisation, decentralisation in Croatia is seen to be too many 555 units of local administration, and I can tell you from my experience. Units of local administration with income less than 1000 kuna per capita, I often suggested when I was mayor let's go two, three units of local administration, you have lawyers, you economist, you do this, let's do this together. Thus, this would also streamline the system, and this would also make it easier for the EU funds to appear. Because you also see at this point that a good part of the units, cities, municipalities and even the county work together some projects so that, if not all of them have enough human capacities and all others, therefore the units have just rationalised the costs of the past years but we have not rationalized the state and it is evident how the costs have been cut from 2008 to today in cities, municipalities and counties. But it's also visible how the state budget was raised. Therefore, even today's amendment to the Income Tax Act again cuts to local administration units, I mean municipalities, cities and counties. And the state doesn't cut its spending side. Therefore, it is one of the problems, but it is certain that Croatia will need to be restructured and competencies and functions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92081	Replica, the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92082	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Bubalo, we have received the Law on the financing of local self-government units, and perhaps today we all talk too little about the law because these are no compensatory measures. So those funds of decentralised functions that, under the old law, participated in income tax, their share was 12%, are now reduced to 6%. And when you look at it as a basic school drop from 3.1 to 1.9%, secondary school from 2.2 to 1.3%, Social Services from 0.5 to 0.2%, homes for elderly and powerless from 1.7 to 0.6%, health care from 3.2 to 1% and public fire departments from 1.3 to 1%, then the issue of local self-government units is raised. Because basically through this when we add that preschool education is financed from that second share in income tax, so that's still add to the association and that's a taste of funding for local self-government units. Now take smaller cities and municipalities where practically the share of income tax in total incomes is more than 60%, what is the situation? Because even this attack on local self-government units won't hit each one equally. Because as far as I've seen the amendments to the Law on the Communist Economy there, it seems that this law will allow what so far was the Holy Scriptures that should not have been touched, so the funds that could only be used to build municipal infrastructure will now be allowed to go into general consumption. And that's the worst that can happen. Because then definitely the question is what will be... in the units of local self-government work.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92083	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92084	Thank you very much. Namely fellow Shuker will be part of the compensatory measures but not enough, we saw it from the calculations. Therefore, almost 70% will be lower incomes from local and regional self-government units. But when we talk about elementary schools, when we talk about social welfare, when we talk about health care, especially about firemen, there will be insufficient resources. And that only points to what I said to the law of the connected vessels. Other prices of municipal services will be raised in these cities and municipalities. And somewhere, it's likely to rise and cut. So that's our problem. With this law, we have helped the rich and those who have high wages, and we kill those who have minimum wages, and yet those who do not work will indeed, I do not know terrible.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92085	Replica, the respected Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92086	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Bubalo, I must agree with you when you have concluded that the compensatory measures provided for to compensate for what is being taken away from the units of local self-government and regional administration are insufficient. You have also pointed to the problem, as well as other speakers today, that it will directly collect certain municipal services to citizens in some units of local self-government. But the thing that has not been said enough, and you didn't mention it, is how directly this will affect the quality of life in local self-government units. Because in the structure of income from local self-government budget units, these incomes from income tax are the mains of the free incomes that the leaders of these units have and which create the quality of life, investment and programmes in their environments. What is now waiting for us in this situation are indirect blows. For example, this item co-finances the price of kindergartens to the commercial price, specifically in the town of Sibenik. These items are also co-financed by social assistance programmes, student scholarships, no less important, and when local self-government units face a deficit expressed in tens of millions of kunas compared to the size of their budgets, what they will apply will not be paid to employees but will be reduced student scholarships, there will be a reduction in social programmes and ultimately a reduction in investments, which will mean for a number of craftsmen and medium-sized companies providing services to local self-government units to lay down workers and a fall in employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92087	Replication response, Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92088	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Baranovic, this will directly lead to gatherings in cities and municipalities. But cities and municipalities, as well as the county will work parallelly on both income and expenditure. He will try to cut costs even though in 2008, a good part of them cut what he could, and will also work on the income i.e. increasing its revenues through utility prices. Well, you just detected well. Because the good part of municipalities, cities and counties in cities at 70% of income is income from income tax. That's the problem because you're just hitting on what's the highest income, everyday income in municipalities, cities and counties. But because we in Slavonia and Baranja feel this Income Tax Act so that people in Slavonia and Baranja do not have large salaries. Therefore, the highest wages are right in Zagreb. Looking at Zagreb and watching the average salary in Zagreb in relation to Slavonia and Baranja it is incomparable. Therefore, it is this law that helps the most Zagreb and Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92089	And the last replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92090	Dear fellow Bubalo, I will now say to my colleague Jelash a little dramatic, but about the essence we forgot about, and she forgot about the left. The basic problem in society, I am not just talking about Croatia is the problem of wealth, i.e. the problem of redistributing wealth. And since he's unfair, he should have introduced taxes on those who aren't rich. A colleague used to say that they were all countries, and you talked about it, too, and you introduced interest taxes. There is one rule in the judiciary when you are sentenced for one misdemeanor, for the second time I cannot judge you for this misdemeanor. Mr. Bubalo, you and I make the same money, you put your money in the bank, you were soaring, I gambled mine, I snuck it out, you have to pay the tax now, I shouldn't have paid anything. The state punishes you, I speak essentially. Now my colleague Linic is going to tell me that I am saying what cannot be done. The state twice taxes and it's unfair, it's also, it's also, I'm for carding money, you've bought another apartment state will punish you for that, i.e. In fact, it's unfair but what we say, but that's what the whole world does. That the whole world is neoliberal and does so, and punishes those who try to end up like Mr. Buffyt said to tax us who pay the least. I also speak of Todorovic in Croatia and all other rich people who make the slightest contribution to this society and threaten to go to another country if we touch them in their wealth. I don't know what you're going to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92091	The answer to the replica Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92092	Thank you very much. Namely, a colleague of Vuksic's redistribution of wealth is very important. But also, everyone endures the same burden of the crisis, but I would say in the HDSSB we still think that those who have the most and most need to bear the burden of the crisis, and that's why I talked about those who have some minimal church in their account. Not saving for savings but being able to survive tomorrow when they run out of work, when the question is that there will be a pension payment, see which way Croatia is going, in 2016 what will happen. Yet, not everyone used their talents and resources equally, whether they were saving or gambling. Therefore, not to be taxed twice in Croatia, I am afraid that it also taxes certain things three times. But my colleague Vuksic worries me most about not leaving one individual from the Republic of Croatia, because capital is fast and sensitive and never enough, and he will find it to fertilize it. But I am interested in these 100,000 people who left Ireland, Denmark, Canada, Sweden, Norway and who are leaving today and have never left the Republic of Croatia so much. That's what can happen exactly that human capital, the greatest potential, is leaving the country because we haven't created the conditions they deserve.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92093	Thank you. Now we'll set a break by 3:00. We continue the debate on behalf of the IDS Club and Walter Boluncic. It's 13:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92094	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] On behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, Walter Boleunčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92095	Thank you. In the face of the lack of representatives of the Ministry of Finance, I hope they will hear objections, so we have a debate on the proposal to supplement the Income Tax Act. Obviously, the aim of the legislators was to increase the purchasing power of the population by increasing the base on which a small part of the sales tax is paid, which should in the end cause around 2 billion more kunas in citizens' pockets. However, purchasing power depends not only on the income but also on the spending side, but also on the way it will be compensated and where these 2 billion kunas will be found is a question for themselves. In fact, taking these 2.2 and some billions that are going into the amount foreseen by this law to remain more citizens, and most income taxes are in the budgets of local and regional communities, so about 55.5 and 15%, which goes to a regional level of about 16.5, 12% for decentralised assets and about 16% takes state, later to balance decentralised functions, education, socialities, etc. The following is seen, according to this calculation of the local self-government unit, they lose a very large share of their money, they lose about 20% of their budgets based on VAT. For example, the County of Istria will lose more than 20 million kuna, and the city of Pula will lose around 17 million kuna of income tax and taxes of around 27 million kuna. On the other hand, the promoter stated that one billion will make it up to it, but that is not the case. In particular, the interest tax on savings planned is 300 million kuna, however, it says nicely there that it is the income of the state budget and not only is it the revenue of the state budget but it is the income that will be used to pay back the excess income tax in those local units that are new will be classified as undeveloped. So that money simply other units can't count. Furthermore, the interest tax itself which is not currently listed here but plays an important role because it is thought to compensate is questionable very for the simple reason that interest on savings is essentially introduced when money is directed into stocks or on the stock market. So you kind of want people who have money to point out that that money doesn't stand in a way in a bank that's not used but to put in shares. As this market is very poorly developed in Croatia, I'm afraid there will be an outflow of savings somewhere outside Croatia rather than people paying interest. The second part that is thought to get money to cover parts of this 2 billion is an increase in real estate taxes from 60 to 80%. But it also shows the following in the Real Estate Transport Act before increasing the change from 60% to 80% was said to lose 70 million kuna to these changes in the local community. One of the reasons lies is that instead of real estate tax of 5%, which is later shared especially for the purchase of the first property, VAT is introduced at 25%, and above all, it is a questionable measure where we have extra unsold apartments and houses, you are now increasing their price with VAT. And of course what's very important here is VAT and income from the state budget, not as a real estate tax. And the third is said to be that the other defeats that have been given... will change the municipal law where the municipal contribution can be used in non-intentional means. It's a pretty big turn since so far it's been an extremely protected part. And while we can talk about how cities and municipalities will be forced to take that part, we can only wonder what our cities will look like in a few years when the roads need to renovate both the infrastructure and the rest. I think that part was made by someone with the goal of being the part to be used for the development and appearance of infrastructure. We think a law like this that says that citizens will live better and have higher wages is simply not true. First of all, it's very forgetful of an entire army of unemployed people who don't get anything, and they're going to lose a lot. In fact, the local community must pay full pre-school education from income tax funds, to separate education for secondary schools, must separate it for culture, sport, social and health care. We've seen that the decentralised funds that have been 12% so far are now going to decrease to 6%, so double the amount, and then it's said to be settled from the Equivalence Fund. The procedure itself has been questioned, and otherwise at the moment when this Assembly adopted a strategy of development, education, science and technology to insist on it, and by reducing funds to double it becomes more than insisting that everything that is beyond the minimum must be returned to the state register is questionable. I guess we're going into the development of education and science, social, something a little bit beyond this minimum that's prescribed, which should seem to be enough for us to develop that definitely isn't. So when you look at parts of the income tax that belong to the local community and the state, it turns out that the state in its incomes has 8%. It is very easy, so in a way it says to the public we will increase your salary but the price will be paid by the local community. For example, the city of Pula will lose 27 million kuna. From the sale of real estate and other stuff maybe we get 5 or 6, so we're... at a loss of 20 million kuna to 137 million kuna. That's not very small, so that's a significant number. So what can be done with 20 million kuna differences? First of all, social giving as the name says only about social welfare are for kindergartens and social assistance. Usually those who use these services, social assistance is therefore poor people or are unemployed, have small incomes, and as far as kindergarten is concerned, and this is about younger families who otherwise have fewer salaries, and they will automatically get less income tax, which will simply not be able to monitor the increase in prices that will have to be put in order to simply be zero. The second thing, if the government thought what the legislator said would increase consumption with this, then let's be honest, you took 27 million, if consumption went to VAT, so the state took out 27 million of those 27 million 6 million. So what was in the local community is not only not returned, but the state took another 6 million because VAT is paid for the consumption. So that's one part that's also left unremarked here, that actually part of that money is not that it's left in the air and on the burden of the local community, but simply the state has taken it towards itself. The things that have been done so far are definitely not going to be able to work with this amount of money, and somewhere they're going to have to either increase their taxes or they're going to have to increase the price of the service that citizens get, and then we can't talk about the citizens getting better, they're going to get worse. At the very least, they'll be worse for those 5 to 6 million kunas, I'm only talking about the city of Pula, or the state will take through these 2 billion from the local community into its 400-year budget. 500 million kuna. So 500 million kuna states take to local communities in a situation where the country and local communities ratio is 1:10, so 90% gets state, 5% Zagreb and 5% all others. What about projects where you have to pay for co-financing? So the local community will be left without it. I do not think that the 1.5% foreseen will be enough and there will be a situation in which the funds paid in the European Union will not be able to withdraw either, let alone more. And I therefore think that this decision is not good, that it could be solved in a much better way. It could have been resolved primarily by reducing VAT. In that case, those who therefore do not work, who are unemployed and others would have a lower price and at the end of the day would be less income, but would be less costs and purchasing power would remain the same. It could have been placed with a whole series of state assets that she centralized with the last laws instead of giving them to the local community. It's farm land management. We have seen the situation that two years nothing has been shared, and in the end in Istria, when it was divided, it was given to a company from which I don't know where, Zapresic, to plant on an olive cap without anyone asking, and why no one thought for 2,000 years that there was a place to plant an olive. We have tourist land, not to mention inspective military properties, at least in our county, in my town how much it wants, it only costs 10-15 years, and no use of it. We believe that, and most of all, the question is, it's always said that there is a need to relieve the price of work. This will not relieve labour prices, except in the part where someone has a net wage contract, so now that benefit will go to the employer who will reduce their fees for that amount. So... come to what you've been saying all along, to reduce the burden of pay. It didn't shrink, it stays the same, but I say part of the money that gets most of the population will eventually be smaller than it will have to be paid for additional services. And by the way, I don't think this bill is good. We believe that these compensatory measures, even though they are not in order, are too small. We think this one's going to harm the citizens, that it's going to harm their reached standard, and we at the IDS club can't give support for this kind of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92096	Thank you. On behalf of the New Wave Club and Reformer Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92097	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister. It has already been said more or less about the previous speakers in the debate on this law when it comes to this law. For us from the DC Club, the New Wave and the People's Party Reformist, this law would be absolutely acceptable if he really had the consequence of only what was declared to be his intensity, which is an increase in consumption, a reduction in tax burden on the receipts of those most needed in this society. However, I have never personally been prone in politics to fool myself, nor in the political option that I belong to. Unfortunately, this law will not only have positive conjectures and when you look at the way the tax burden is distributed to the level of receipt and when you see it, you calculate the extreme effects then you see that the least significant shifts in net income increases will be the ones that have the lowest income, and that actually the largest benefit will have those who should be more solid in carrying the burden of the financial consolidation of the country. And even when you look at the issue of consumption, there are a whole series of ways to increase consumption in this country that would be where and where more efficient than this. It is not a problem for Croatia in what this law is trying to solve and what it touches, the problems of Croatian finances are much deeper in nature. They are based on figures that roughly say that this country without about 30 billion kuna what loans, what minus can't come out of the financial year. Yes, only in the pension insurance system are we minus 18 billion kuna. That this year we have managed to produce 600 million kunas from the fact that we have become a member of the European Union. This really should have been a turning and skillful one to afford it, even in a number of other figures, which this law according to us in the club, and by us in the People's Party – reformists have as a negative conjecture. It has been mentioned about the withdrawal of income from local self-government and regional administration units. The one who used to work in that system, and especially if he took care of finances, knows that the income item in each budget of the local self-government unit, the big city, the municipality's dominant point, is actually at the disposal of funds that can create a unit policy of local self-government. Investment policy, subsidy policy, quality living conditions policy for citizens living there. And it is very certain that the compensations provided for the units of local self-government are not sufficient. What's that gonna have to do with it? I'll set an example for my city of Sibenik. Income and tax revenues at year-on-year levels ranged from 78m to 80m kuna per year. They were about 40% nominal, but about 50% of the real budget of the city of Sibenik. These revenues financed not only employees' salaries, but also the preparation of project documentation for all projects the city intended to implement. Subsidies to kindergartens to the economic price, so implementation of social policy. Student subsidies, scholarships. City culture what is very important for a tourist environment. Sport and wages to employees, of course and investments and projects partly in infrastructure projects in the city or some other projects. What will have as a consequence this law by reducing income in this position which is the most dominant in the revenue side. Local self-government units will naturally reach out to some of the following priorities. He won't leave the employees they need and who are employed and who have no income status, but he'll cut cultural donations, so he'll cut donations to sports, and then he'll move on. So there will be no right to help the children's kindergarten network to the economic price of what will ultimately collect children's kindergarten services to the citizens. It's a reality. So they'll reach out for an increase in municipal contributions and utility fees so they can do something about it. If they do not make this the next conjecture is that small craftsmen or medium-sized construction firms who in good part are income from their annual income by providing services and doing jobs for the local self-government unit, or the city will be out of work, so when they lose their jobs and this already happens because of a general recession in society, then they will start firing workers, then they will slowly send home. So both directly and indirectly, this law, when it comes to the position of units of local self-government, has harmful consequences. Other harmful coincidences are the financial anemicity of local self-government units that are important stakeholders in the country's ambitions to withdraw money from European funds. And we are just taking this from a position which is free to plan European projects, projects for European funds, pre-financing, financing, payment of consulting services, project preparation, etc. etc. What the Italians would say. We are handicaping the important factors in the process of withdrawing money from European funds, and as we are doing so, the best testimony is to the fact that it was presented and to personally express itself among other speakers yesterday, that we failed to withdraw European funds for a billion and 200 million kuna compared to our planned 2014 budget. They'd say, "We're going from hollow to empty," ladies and gentlemen, "we're going from hollow to empty." It's a pretty Dalmatian saying. Without the start of investments, without the start of investments, and this public investment and the conditioning of all factors in the process of withdrawing European money, there is no economic growth in this country point. The only good thing is that the sequencing is positive for this law, which in the real sector will cost the workforce. So that someone doesn't cheat that employers at the expense of this will raise net wages in the private sector, the real sector. He won't, except in cases where gross wages are agreed, so some legal space opens up that he'll have to lift up in those situations. Wherever there is no clear contractual salary height there will be no positive consequences per employee. I assure you that's 90% of the cases. Let's leave special cases like some companies that have extremely high wages because they want to stimulate and have such a business policy, but they're rare. So, it will cost the workforce in the real sector and maybe it will motivate someone from investors to come and do something in Croatia, maybe. Who's going to profit? Only seemingly and only at first sight will the public sector profit, which, I will be very honest, has not been shown by ladies and gentlemen in this society for the past 20 years. And there's no measure of work, it's protected from all sides against real sector employees. And what we're doing is not reform, let's not lie. Reforms are something else entirely. Reforms are that we cannot allow profit from better production of electricity in hydrologically favourable years last year and the advance does not go into a budget hole without a bottom but is placed in investments. In investments that bring concrete benefits through electricity generation, through the launch of the construction sector on major projects, and then generates both employment and consumption, through investment in the HEP distribution network, which is one of the worst in Europe and records the greatest losses. These losses are clearly visible and can be expressed in kunas. We don't even have to talk about kilowatt hours, we can talk in kunas. And this is about kunas. Both this government and the Ministry of Finance but not the Ministry of Finance, but the government is fully expected to have reforms that will bring about the kuna. And he's not the minister, so that someone doesn't get me wrong, he's guilty of coming into a situation to carry a law like this. It's his job to keep the ship on the surface from sinking, and the water has reached the deck. And the government's task is to resuscitate the ship and lead it to the port by implementing a responsible common policy that has clear tools and mechanisms for raising the economic activities of growth, raising employment and thus raising and spending and financial and economic recovery of this country. In this way I am very skeptical and reserved, my party is very skeptical and reserved and the DC club itself, the New Wave and Reformist will not solve the problem this way. We've obviously given someone something, and in this seemingly we haven't made a distribution of giving in a socially fair way because those who have as much acceptable income as they do will measure the salary increase in thousands of kunas, and those who are the most endangered will record some 50, 100, 150 kunas a month more. We've made a nice gesture of such a façade type, but basically we've generated problems, complications and damages in the second and third moves. Majors in chess are the ones who can see the third move, not the ones who will play first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92098	Thank you. We have a few replicas. Branko Vuksic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92099	In your debate, you opened a series of problems that this law has brought and you warned some of them, and what you spoke of most is local self-government and the position in which it will take effect after the law comes into force. One of the important things that Mr. Linic warned about is the indifference that he said were the units of local self-government, municipalities and cities of the largest default. How's it going to be now? You were saying it might be causing this even more unemployment. The question is, will life in local self-government stop? Are we going to lose those jobs we're barely able to save right now? If those smallest investments stop, if there's no more money, what happens? What you have warned, in all the stories we are talking here and we are very little critical of it, all of us, and the opposition and especially the representatives of the government is the money that stands on the pile that we can take and we haven't taken, and that's money from European funds. That's what they said, take the money but show some effort and knowledge. And we said, but we won't, effort and knowledge, which we're going to invest in effort and knowledge, and we're not going to take that money. I'm glad you pointed out, that's right, the public sector, or the real sector, is privileged. There's a situation like before, that situation between the two wars. You have a secure service, the state service is secure, and that's the only thing that's gonna be safe in this country. This is what's left under the questionnaire.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92100	Thank you. Answer, colleague Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92101	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Very briefly, I will repeat again through this response to your replica, colleague Vuksic it is quite clear to anyone who does not understand that in the field of public investment units of local self-government capillaries that feed the tree, it does not understand work and it is quite certain that the financial anemia of the local self-government units to which this law will contribute, that we do not lie to ladies and gentlemen, lead to loss of jobs, works of works especially of construction operation but other small and medium-sized enterprises providing goods and services to local self-government units. And that means worse business, every privateer, every entrepreneur in this situation will reach for the measure that is unacceptable to us and to any normal person, or unwanted, and that's firing workers, and that's a fact. The very general recession that hit Croatia as part of the global recession, but also as part of our own weaknesses that are still being expressed in this House today, because it has already produced the loss of thousands of jobs in the construction sector, the decline in investment and we have still afforded what is seen from yesterday's rebalancing text that public investment falls by 18% and we ourselves have apostrophe of public investment as the only certain investment mechanism and economic recovery. So we're drinking to ourselves the branch we're sitting on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92102	Thank you. You're a replicator. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92103	Thank you, Vice President. So, you said in your debate that this legislative proposal would have very drastic consequences for the units of local self-government, you literally said that the units of local self-government would become financially anemic, that this law would affect the reduction of opportunities for municipalities and cities to apply to funds for investments, from that it would reduce the scope of the implementation of certain projects. Therefore, it is clear that this law will affect that the leaders of the local self-government units will have to be managers to a greater extent than this case has ever been before, so they will have to act entrepreneurially. This means that the mayors and mayors will have to knock on the EU door to a greater extent, so on European funds and finance the local standard with European money. First of all, we think of the European Social Fund. And as for the Government, the government has prepared for this law and its consequences an appropriate compensation package of laws that will compensate to some extent for the missing funds under this law in this regard, among other things under the law, and the fund in which local self-government units will be paid, not all criteria have been fully cleared, so it will set out 1.5% of the income tax precisely for the establishment of this single alimony fund from which projects of local self-government units would be financed. Therefore, conditionally speaking for rich units or richer units, more fiscally stronger units of local self-government will finance project implementation and, when it comes to poorer units of local self-government, those with lower fiscal capacity will also finance the cost of project preparation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92104	Thank you. Reply to the replica of my colleague Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92105	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Jelash, there's nothing you can do about it. The whole point of this story, but we are not in the context of this law, but at all Croatian stories are that we lack around 4 billion euros at the level of the year. And that all we're doing is just switching and taking from one to patch up the holes on the other side. The anemic system with inefficient public administration, with a series of laws that have not yet been broken, is not subject to the withdrawal of European funds. The Fund you are talking about, we at the National Party of Reformists consider it necessary, so we have therefore proposed a law that provides for the establishment of a fund for financial support for European projects by including the real sector in this fund and not just units of local self-government, because in this situation in which it is not fully prepared to withdraw, for example, funds from rural development, envelopes for agriculture. The bottom line is that we transfer money that we don't actually have and that without real reforms of economic and financial nature, that is, economic and financial policies, tax policies will not come out of this wagon.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92106	Thank you. And Josip Boric's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92107	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Baranovic, I agree with your debate. From hollow to empty, I'll add can also from the desert to empty because the government has nevertheless thought that in some way, indirect ways to increase its own revenues because if we're talking about 2 billion kunas that go into consumption we know what VAT is on consumption, it could be combined if everything were ideal and some few hundred million kunas and in the state budget. And what happens? We have a situation that both the mayors and the mayors in the same situation will both be satisfied and dissatisfied with this law. The mayors and mayors are in the range of salaries from nine to 20 thousand kuna, as their persons will be paid a raise, as the mayor, who is acting in that capacity. The local budget will be poorer, less work. For the mayor's salary, the mayor may be less likely to work. That'll show practice. Already, many are announcing their non - circumcisions, and if they do, they will increase the cut rate. Many are announcing an increase in municipal fees and everything else so that at least so much will satisfy what the state will take from them. And then we end up in the most absurd situation and these current events. Imagine in Zagreb, the mayor of Zagreb will raise his salary for a job that must not be based on such a law. On the one hand, you can't work on the other hand. You'll get paid. And that brings a completely absurd situation to one of these draft laws. That's why he's illogical and he's not good and instead of trying to find the best part that would sort of suit us all. You have a system to take or leave and then we come to what you said from the hollow to the blank.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92108	Thank you. My colleague Baranovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92109	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Boric, this stalemate position in which we have found ourselves, the truth and God should mention this order in order not to be forgotten, is not the result of the inaction or ill done in this term alone and from this government, there are others with the mortgage of creating these general conditions in Croatia and the dominant mortgage. But also what we're talking about today can be summed up in another finding that goes to criticise this government. I was part of the personal coalition that entered this mandate, we promised decentralisation, and this is financial centralization, and it has nothing to do with the decentralisation promised to the citizens of this country before the elections, and it goes to the soul of all of us, including me who entered the mandate with that promise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92110	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92111	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Here's the minister today in one of his replicas said that we are against this law because we do not want to allow the government to help and facilitate the citizens. I dare say it's a very inconclusive statement and it's simply not true. If anyone wants, it must and if it is his duty to help the citizens then it is definitely us here in the Croatian Parliament who raise our hands for or against the proposals of certain laws. All today's individual debates, i.e. replicas and attitudes expressed on behalf of the clubs, that my thinking and confirmation. The difference between the legislator or the government and us as parliamentarians may be that we are only concerned with these changes to the Income Tax Act we are thinking and talking a little wider, looking at and warning about the possible domino effect that this law will cause. It is normal for the minister to think about the revenues of the state budget, but it is also normal for local and regional self-government leaders to think about the level of income of their budgets. Both thoughts and other calculations influence and reflect on the quality of life of Croatian citizens. So these changes increase personal deductions and change payment classes and the minister says that the reason for the change is to increase competitiveness and improve the standards of Croatian citizens who will feel greater monthly incomes. Competitiveness, how competitive is the state if it constantly changes tax policy? What security we give to the investor that the investment will be paid off precisely in those amounts of his cost-effectiveness study when frequent amendments to the law do not affect him, but we do. The income tax law has been changed 17 times today since '93, so income tax changes as a rule once a year. It is similar to the situation with the Regulation on the method of accounting for income tax on non-performing labour, and with all those accompanying laws on contributions and laws on the financing of local self-government units which are closely linked to the law itself and the application of income tax. In total tax revenues, income tax is slightly above 2%, other words income from income tax has a very small share in the revenues of the state budget, but the biggest income in local self-government units is also issued. We have already said the way it is shared, we have talked about income tax revenues including the tax as it was allocated on the basis of receipts in local self-government and state units, and the only thing we can say is that by redistributing income from income tax and such changes and by proposing amendments to the law, the central government has not lost anything nominally because nothing almost had. It is difficult to make up for, not hard but impossible, the finance minister with 556 seems to me to be the unit of local self-government that incomes should be and what incomes or taxes all would satisfy. However, I believe that this bill should have a simulation of all possible developments in the application of this law and with particular reference to local self-government units. We're talking about who gets more on the payroll. Those who have a small salary will get less, those who have a higher salary will get more and that's that and that's bad. There are, by all means, fewer people who get a higher salary than those who get lower or don't get almost anything, but that's not enough argument to say that we help citizens for the simple reason that they want us to or not citizens to live in units of local and regional self-government, and only those units make up a unique whole. It is in these municipalities and cities that citizens pay communal fees, contributions, kindergartens, from these municipalities or cities that these citizens receive assistance, social assistance or scholarships. If we have said that income from income tax is the biggest income of local self-government, then it is logical that by reducing that income we must also reduce some expenditure. What will be the expenditure, whether they will be at all, will not be decided by the finance minister but by the people in the units of local and regional self-government. By reducing expenditure will certainly reduce the quality of life, and that is the added value that we are not talking about and cannot calculate, but if we keep our expenditures in existing amounts then we have to withdraw new revenues from somewhere. And that's exactly what an increase in income is that requires certain simulations for future events, and that's what requires the fear and replicas of exactly what they are here today. It is not good to promise citizens that they will be better off, to say that this law will monthly receive 50 or 100 kuna more, not to warn them that in a month or two, when they are given an increase in municipal compensation, a contribution or a cost of kindergarten, or when their child is left for second or third year of college without a scholarship, that we do not tell them openly and that we do not warn them. Today there have also been talks about how local self-government units have a large number of employees, how employees in these municipalities, cities and counties have an average of 30% higher salary or high wages, that the local self-government unit has too much and I can agree with all of that. However, this must not and cannot be an argument for us to pass such a law. They have always been, and they have been, and they will be the leaders of those who, with their work, responsibility, ability and seriousness, will influence the development of their units of local self-government, but we cannot generalise things and cannot say that they are all bad, that no one is working, and that because someone shares a large salary, we must take it from the units of local self-government in the way that we intend to do it and that this way we will introduce order. If we all agree that the local self-government unit has too much, then let's make out what the parameters are that the unit can or can't function and let's reform the local self-government. If we say that the leaders do not perform their duty then let's review the audit reports themselves and see which head of the unit of local self-government is non-transparently spending money, more than he can or can, and let's sanction it for that. We just don't do it, we end up saying they're all bad, they're all thieves, and we propose the law the way we propose it. That's what we do wrong, and that's what we repeat from law to law. No simulations, no projections, no data. It all comes down to it, that's because we said it, that's because we came up with some calculations. In his presentation today, Boljunčić has done a very good simulation of how much he loses, where he is lost, which is why he is lost, and such a simulation should also be about this bill so that it can be discussed in a quality way. Did we create a simulation of employees and their gross salaries to see how much this law will actually damage the uniform development of the region, do all citizens really have in all the districts of wages like the city of Zagreb? And when we talk about some numbers, then we're talking about figures at the state level, but we haven't taken the time to discuss how much and how this is going to reflect in a particular county. We are seeking a more uniform development, a more even development, and on the other hand we are doing nothing to make these differences that are getting bigger and smaller from day to day. In the town of Zagreb, wages are 14% higher than the average salary and the town of Zagreb is the only one crossing the Croatian average. The following is Zagreb County with average salary 3% less than average and Istria with 6% less than average. In Brodo-Posavina, employees have 19% lower incomes than the average of Croatia, Virovitica-Podravska 18% and in Bjelovarska-Biogorje 17%. Development index, Zagreb 186%, Zagreb 124%, Virovitičko-podravska 5.56%, Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska 23% and Brodo-Posaviska 18.4%. So this reduction in wages where the pay gaps on average are extremely large, where the development indices of this extremely large, rich county, highly developed county make the less developed, even less insufficient to improve anything in our business. The next thing I'm going to get a very short reference is the income tax advance. These changes have to be paid on the basis of the determination of income from specific types of assets, specifically by selling waste of 12% I welcome, and the only thing I can say is to say finally, because it should have been done much, much earlier. However, by putting into effect and respecting the Sustainable Waste Management Act in the way he prescribed it by allowing one-off payments, payment in cash to an amount of 100 kuna, allowing 14 exit invoices per 100 kuna to be made in 5 minutes. As far as the waste is concerned, we haven't solved it. Ministers, yesterday you had a meeting with the workers of Unimmer Chakovec, and you are very familiar with the problems that arise. We will put an amendment to this law in that section so that the payments related to the collection of waste must be paid exclusively to the current and jury accounts of citizens, that 12% of the pre-taxes must be charged at each payoff. And it's the only model that we can put waste collection into such regulation, put it within the limits of legality, and rule out all the possible problems that arise around waste with the more the problem in the waste remains. I'm worried that legal entities that buy out waste will have to fill out all those JOP forms for the second income account. I think it's a hell of a job. I wonder how people who receive millions of damages from tax administrations, or punishment for something that was not in the law at all, will succeed in hiring anyone to do all this. And I hope that the amendments you get on this bill will be carefully read, done everything to implement them here in this law. Labourists of this kind without projections, without seriousness, can't accept and we'll vote against.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92112	Thank you. We have two replicas. Peter Baranovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92113	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Tyrelli. You mentioned, in your presentation, the same way as everyone else, the depriving of funds with insufficient compensatory measures towards local self-government units, and you mentioned the same as the others, and so did you, which the consequences can come out of it, and we all forgot about one. So here I am going to remind you through this replica of what those units of local self-government that have so far not been credited to a level above which the consent to further borrowing is given to them by the Ministry of Finance. In a situation like this, they'll reach out to the loans and raise them. Credits obtained from banks which in determining the interest rate on the price of capital in Croatia have not exactly been shown in these last 20 years, so we will, in addition to the category of irrational borrowing of citizens who are wise politicians, plotted as a route some twenty years ago, or 15 years ago. Not twenty, full twenty, so through the government's borrowing policy, we will now have the category of intensive, i.e. borrowing to the maximum units of local self-government so that the circus with the borrowing of Croats at all levels from individual to state will be complete, so that it will be complete and that we will return even more in debt. And these same banks that some geniuses have put into foreign capital after they have been recovered by taxpayers will pay all the profits they collect and thus place in Croatia as cheap capital in their home states at a much more favourable rate, they will develop their economy, and we... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92114	Thank you. My colleague Tyrell's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92115	I thank my colleague Baranovic for the replica. Yes, the consequences will be great and I dare say hard-sighted. We'll sanction it for a long, long time. The question is, what are we gonna do? The problem with us is always the same. We pass laws without doing analyticals and projections which will indeed be passed by the laws, and which they will ultimately reflect towards all that this law is concerning, from the greatest to the smallest. We generalize things. We unload one, load the other. In this case, and what you said about the loans, I agree with you. If units of local self-government and reported certain projects to be co-financed at this time on the 15th, by 15.11. we had to provide projections of some budgets, with the first, 15th, or in some continuity of payments based on income tax will lose certain incomes. The battery will lose its annual income. That money is missing and then after that practice we're talking about competitiveness. If our units of local self-government due to frequent changes and these changes to the laws cannot make a projection for next year, I really wonder how it will make any foreign investor quality. And then we say that this law has been passed or we bring it in to strengthen competitiveness. We're inconclusive, ultimately irresponsible, and I really don't think it's the minister who's responsible for this. He just has to save what's to be saved. But by saving one, we're destroying a lot of others.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92116	Thank you. Hansel Mandic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92117	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague. Well, I don't know if I understand you or not, so here's a chance to explain it to me. You said with these taxes, these new changes that local self-government units that were richer will be even richer and poorer. I don't think this finding of yours is correct because the units of local self-government whose budgets are much higher and nominally will be much higher expenses than here. In one part of your debate, you said the state was taking away. No, the state's only here to transfer taxpayers' money to local self-government units. Local self-government units will be denied for part of the funds, but that money goes towards citizens who will definitely, for employees, pay will definitely rise. What's going to be further on the budget? But it is certain that employees will have higher wages. And speaking of wages and spending, I'm always more confident that I'll spend my money better than any mayor. We haven't talked here for a moment about how rational they are and how functional the local self-government units are. So here's a special explanation for which account is more or less?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92118	Thank you. Answer, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92119	Thank you. Well, my colleague Mandic, no, I said, I wasn't talking about local self-government units in that context, which is richer than citizens and tax-related and increased personal deductions. So, not in the context of local self-government units, but in the context of those who get paid here. Consequence, yes, there will be. But what will it be like? Do we know that? We've got calculations. How many citizens are they gonna get? How many more citizens are they gonna get? What's the number we're dealing with? Is it unserious or serious of us when we say citizens will get more, and then whether someone in the local self-government unit will raise a cut, cancel the kindergarten fee or cancel the scholarship or will no longer give social aid to the most vulnerable who have been given so far because there is no money, who can say that? No one, right? So we're talking about a law that at a certain point will lead to leaders in local self-government units having to decide what and how, if I have less income and my expenses are the same then I'm asking myself a question probably like you and anyone else that we're in this situation to settle certain expenditures and obligations that I have, and I have less income to do? Either I can take a loan or if I have some kind of model, I'm going to increase some kind of giving to get the funds in the same way as the state does. If the state's budget lacks money, we raise 2.3% of the higher VAT, and from what we've sold multiplied by that 3% increase in the state budget, we're going to do something about it. And then when the same thing is done by leaders in local self-government units because someone took away some of their resources and then we tell them that they're irresponsible, that they don't know, that they're not willing or I don't know what else.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92120	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU Željko Shemper, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92121	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the honourable ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. At the beginning of my debate, I would like to remind all of us what the procedure was after the Ministry of Finance's proposal to amend this Income Tax Act. We first learned from the media about the proposal to increase the amount of basic personal deduction from 2200 kuna 2600 kuna, but only on salary. There was no mention of an increase in the personal pension deduction of pensioners and pensioners that caused an unpleasant surprise. Always, in the case of an increase in personal salary deductions, there was a parallel raise and a personal deduction for pensions. That's why HSU had to react and remind the government that she made a mistake in the steps. In this proposal, the amendment and addition of this forgetfulness was corrected and the personal pension deduction increased from 3400 to 3800 kuna. Such a change has been presented in a media way, and so the pensioners with lower incomes realized that it was about increasing pensions where they get nothing but fat geese we rub their necks. Namely, it is primarily about reducing or releasing the tax on those pensioners who have so far had more pensions than 3400 kuna. Thus, after this change in the personal deduction of pensioners, all those with a pension of 3400 to 3800 kuna will be freed from tax payments, which is from 0 to 48 kuna per month, and so much will increase their pensions. It is important to recall that 10 years ago the basic personal deduction for pensioners amounted to 2550 kuna and increased to 3000 kuna on 1 April 2004. After that increase, it was still in 2008 from 3000 to 3200 and 2012 from 3200 to 3400 and now according to this proposal 1.01.2015 from 3400 to 3800 kuna. With this change of around 75 to 80,000 pensioners will no longer pay income tax, and an estimated 150 thousand pensioners will receive an increase in pensions. This change, according to the applicant's assessment of income from the pensioner's income tax, would reduce at an annual level of around 136 million, and my assessment is that it will be slightly less. In view of the problem of the deficit of the state budget and in order to compensate for at least one small part of the lack of tax revenue by amending this law, it is also proposed to tax the savings interest. About three million people in banks have savings of about 173 billion kuna, and about 50 thousand have 75 billion kuna or 43% of total savings. Given the very low Croatian pensions, it is unlikely that there are any pensioners in these 50,000 savings. However, according to the proposed changes, any interest on savings would be taxed at a rate of 12% at the same time as the payment or attribution of interest, regardless of the amount and the tax paid could be shown in the annual tax application. Taxes would be released on the basis of a life insurance contribution with a savings feature, possible contributions to voluntary pension insurance and interest are calculated by sighting in transaction accounts if they do not exceed 0.5% per year. In our opinion, it would be better if by a certain amount, a certain rate of interest of these small savings were not taxed. Among the pensioners, there must be savings that have saved some for old age, received some severance money when leaving work, and kept for black days, and it is certain that they are not eternally writing annual tax returns. Given the low pensions and the likely low amount of interest taxes per year's tax return is likely. As a result, we expect a lot of information to be applied and the tax administration to carry out an annual accounting using IOPPD forms and bonds to provide an informative calculation of income tax without writing any annual tax returns. As it is known that the total expenditure on pensions is about 36 billion a year, that the contributions of employees are collected only 19 billion, the rest of the 17 billion comes from the state budget or collected taxes. As a result of the increase in personal deduction for pensioners, the club of representatives of HSU will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92122	Thank you. We have one replica, Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92123	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Schamper, you are aware of the deception this law gives and offers, and you are aware that with the support of this law you will probably cause a reaction in your town in Koprivnica that maybe the town of Koprivnica will have to impose some pressure on citizens, perhaps a cut, perhaps something else. How will you defend it, protect it in your town of Koprivnica, how will you defend it on behalf of your colleagues from HSU in the City of Križevci, in Djurđevec, in Bjelovar, in the Long Village, in the second constituency? I'm just curious. Because of 48 kunas that the pensioners will receive more about which you have spoken or perhaps because of the thousands and some kunas they will receive more citizens of Croatia who are fortunate to have a higher salary. I don't know if you put maybe on the scale of these two facts and did you get away well in that part? As you will defend it before your citizens, I am very interested. I don't think it's good to support a law like this if it carries and harms cities, municipalities, citizens where we live, here you are, as specifically in your city.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92124	Thank you. My colleague Schamper's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92125	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Hrg, first of all, we worry that the pensioners didn't run out of personal deductions, and that was our first assignment. In my debate, I cited four years back in ten years when personal income deductions increased, and pensions increased. No one will get rich with that and the less tax the pensioners will get from the local budgets won't feel. What you are in charge and mandatory so you will hopefully find solutions and solutions there is always, somewhere you will save if you need to, and you will perhaps raise some credit. How the Koprivnica took out a 30 million loan, so she had to build a palace of justice, and that money was gone. To get the military, and the other cities got it for free. I therefore believe that the local community will take care of it in a certain way. And I've been listening here all day, and it seems more to me that we are discussing the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government. This is one procedure, a pension deduction due to the same pay deduction. And would it have been better if we had represented and kept quiet here and had not taken up his pension in person. I don't think that would be right. I'm saying no one's gonna get rich out of it, but it's okay to raise a parallel personal deduction for pensions as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92126	Thank you, too. On behalf of SDP representative Drazenko Pandek's club. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92127	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Minister with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Introductoryly, the SDP club will support these amendments and additions to the Income Tax Act. They will support them because these changes are also aimed at increasing competitiveness, but primarily I would say that there is an increase in spending in the country and an increase in wage mass among most employers. When I say the masses pay primarily, I mean, of course, the increase in the net wage. The most important effect to be achieved by these changes is that personal deductions will be raised to a level of 2 600 kuna. The tax rate therefore of 12% will continue to be applied to gross wages above 2 600 to 4 800, so while this rate of 25% would be applied to gross wages from 4 800 to 13 200 kuna. I read these differences because it should be pointed out that the gross salary above 3.200 kuna would now be taxed at a rate of 40%, and these workers would, therefore, if all other rates were to be kept equal, it would be best for those workers who had a gross salary of between 8800 and 13200 kuna, which so far affected the 40% tax rate which was obviously too low. But it should be pointed out that with this measure, workers with minimum wage will no longer pay taxes, so the minimum wage will be exempt from tax. When we talk about calculations, calculations also show that those who have so far had a gross salary of 6,000 kuna so net around 4,900 will have a higher salary of over 1,400 kuna per year. And as the minister himself spoke, so these calculations show that this group is somehow the employees and the most numerous. So if you give someone 1,400 kuna at the end of the year, I wouldn't say it's a completely negligible amount. Personally, I wouldn't mind getting a Christmas card like that. Workers with a current net salary of around 8800 kuna will have a higher salary at the annual level for around 1,800 kuna, and will profit most from that part of the medium layer that had a net salary of around 12,000 kuna which can expect about 900 kuna monthly higher salary. Although the first remark could be that those with lowest incomes will not have enough positive effects, it should be said, however, that no tax measure taken or changed on them can have a major impact because persons with lower incomes logically or do not pay tax amounts. But certain effects will have on them. We at the SDP club justifiably expect this measure to open up the possibility of an increase in salaries of almost a million employees. We think that a large number of people will have a certain breath in personal finances with these changes, that this measure will also have a positive effect on increasing consumer optimism and will give a boost to consumption, and then indirectly in this way and production. As a change in tax... we find a legitimate reduction in the income tax rate, so a redundancy of income from work. According to the expert literature, Croatia is famous for one of the most burdened countries by income tax in Europe. This is especially the case when it comes to this highest income tax rate of 40%. In the relevant journal for this area, Accounting and Finance magazine, I found that Croatia is the highest income tax rate above the average EU tax rate of slightly over 37%. Also, as the thresholds for determining the highest tax rates in Croatia are highlighted, they are very, very low compared to European countries. Workers who generate a net salary of 8800 kuna per month or below 14000 euros per year already affect the highest tax rate. If we look at individual developed EU members, Austria's border will set some 60 thousand euros per year of tax income in Italy to 75,000 while in Germany it is at about 250,000 euros. When we look at these younger EU members, which are essentially our right to compete with when we talk about attracting investment and competition in competence, they have labour-stimulating income tax rates such as Bulgaria, which has 10%, Lithuania 15%, Hungary and Romania 15%, the Czech Republic 22, Latvia 24 and Slovakia 25%. When we talk about neighbouring Balkan countries and outside the EU, Montenegro has a 9% rate, Macedonia 10, BiH 10 also, and Serbia 15%. So I would say that obviously we too must make adjustments to the lower burden of work. If we have to increase tax revenues then we think it has to be a tax that will burden property and capital gains to a greater extent. We are particularly of the opinion that an effort should be made to reduce the burden of middle class work. Engineers of various professions, architects, doctors and other persons with VSS are somehow part of the middle layer. And it's part of the workforce that can create the most added value with its work. These people are objectively considered as necessary to stimulate, encourage and create conditions for them to stay in the country and make them more competitive and efficient. So we think of it as a step in the right direction. When I said that the 40% rate was too low, it should be said that these people I spoke of were highly educated professionals and experts who do not agree with their salaries if 10, 11 thousand nets do not belong safely to Croatian criteria in some rich layer that can afford all kinds of luxury. These are the same people who may not have any basic existential problems about paying for directors or food, but in any case these are people who can't afford almost any luxury, and I think that as I said, it should be noted that this part of the working-active population that creates essentially the largest part of our GDP. In parallel, with an increase in the non-taxable part of income, the personal deduction of pensioners from 3,400 kuna to 3,800 kuna is also increased monthly, thus reducing the tax burden of pensioners. As this proposal further proposes to increase the base deduction for taxpayers who have residence and stay in units of local self-government classified in the first group by degree of development and those belonging to the unit of local self-government in the second group, we consider that this proposal constitutes a rounded total which increases the incomes of a significant number of employees, especially those who fall within the most promising and creative part of the workforce, but helps pensioners persons with lower incomes and also persons living in these areas who are less developed. One of the measures thus foreseen here is the taxation of interest within the capital income per 12%. So according to CNB data as explained and... the amount of interest per savings is 45 000 kuna on average. So on the amount paid, those taxpayers would now be obliged to pay about $5400. Of course, every tax burden will not like the one affected by it, but I believe that in today's situation, however, a certain good measure has been done in weighing as much as a certain income can be burdened, and it should be pointed out that this is not about taxing the amount of savings, so that there may be no confusion, perhaps someone might misread it, but rather about taxing so-called clean interest, clean ones gain on the principal. We believe that this measure will also have an impact on the increase in investment, i.e. Rerouting money and clean savings into other forms of investment that could have more impact on the economy, such as investment in bonds and more long-term investment in capital companies, because here in this proposal, the law provides for such investment exemptions from taxation. With this in connection here... so... proposes this exception in taxation in relation to interest on bonds and the relation to income based income on life insurance with the mark of savings. Since 1 January, therefore, it is proposed to tax capital gains. It can be concluded from the proposal to amend the law that the intention is, therefore, to the greatest extent to tax the profits achieved by speculative purchase and sale. We believe even that this measure will have a positive impact on greater long-term investment with the feature of savings, therefore, because only that capital gain is taxed within 3 years from the purchase of a particular financial instrument to the sale. So if you have invested money for a long time, unspeakably it won't be subject to taxation. In particular, at the SDP club, we welcome the fact that this proposal does not tax the income of capital if these receipts are achieved on the basis of the labour market. We also welcome the proposal that income from capital is not determined on the basis of dividends in the share of profits if, therefore, dividends and these shares are used to increase the fundamental capital of society. We believe that this measure will have a positive impact on the increase in investment. It certainly won't hurt. According to the proposal, further, other incomes will be considered to constitute the difference between the value of the assets acquired and the proven value of the assets for its acquisition. This change will be believed to have a positive effect on preventing tax evasion and tax evasion. So far, proving tax evasion and proving that certain assets originated in the gray area have been... with considerable difficulties. This provision, we believe, should help make such incomes easier and more effective, so the tax system will now only need to determine how much property it is, whether it is covered with certain real incomes. If not, the difference will be taxed with the highest tax rate. As another positive news, we will certainly present the fact that a large number of taxpayers will no longer have to submit annual tax returns. In particular, by introducing a special procedure for determining the annual income tax relating to taxpayers who, therefore, now have a obligation to submit tax returns and to taxpayers who would... exercise the right to return. Now that obligation of submission is being resolved by the IRS for them, so now the IRS for a large number of taxpayers who have had to do this on their own. This solution is considered to favour the economics of the process, but also the efficiency of the conduct. The process will speed up and become cheaper, and will also make it much easier for the parties to exercise their rights. How we estimate that all these measures that are proposed will have positive effects on facilitating the lives of citizens of employees and pensioners, therefore higher salaries and pensions, increased consumption, more economical and more efficient tax procedures, and we hope to increase investment and competitiveness in the international environment when we talk about Croatia. The SDP club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92128	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Here you go, Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92129	Thank you very much. A fellow Pandek, an increase in consumption, better positioning in the environment will be more investment. Well, I didn't hear any more demagogy and deception today, and there was a lot of it. What are we talking about? The minister said that most of those millions of employees who receive salaries from those with salaries of 3-4 thousand kuna are not said in percentages. It has been said that those who receive 15 and more thousands somewhere around 80,000. And it's really going to happen boom in consumption when these few hundred thousand with 40, 50 kuna bigger wages go to the store monthly, a terrible boom. It's going to have 400 to 1,000 kuna more income a year somewhere. And that category of people that have, thank God dear, that God that all so have wages 15 and more thousand kunas, they will have 12 and more thousand kunas a year more income. We're talking 80,000 employees of a million, according to the minister. And you're expecting a consumer boom and you're talking about how it's a positive law, how it's supposed to be supported, because everyone's getting paid more. Of course, we all want bigger salaries, but let's not sell demagogues, let's not deceive the public because we're going to have the same citizens that we're all talking about here all day and eventually they're going to pay more and that's the truth and that's why we're warning about it and we're saying that this law needs to be connected to other laws and finally some sort of solution. What's done here is not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92130	Thank you. Come in, mate Pandek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92131	Thank you. I would still ask that we stick to one level worthy of Parliament if we didn't talk here to one another about demagogy. Because then we could say a lot about the mandates that were before 2009 and so on. etc. But good. As for your replica, this won't boost consumption. 2 billion kunas will remain more citizens in their pocket. It's a very high probability, I'm almost sure most of it will be spent by those citizens. So this will certainly end in consumption, and that is what we will see by the statistical indicators next year. And if, look, if you're against having 2 billion kuna left in your pocket for more citizens, I suggest you call a referendum, and then see how that goes. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92132	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92133	Thank you very much. Comrade Pandek, you said that citizens will have two billion kunas left to increase the tax rate, i.e. the salary amount. I agree with that, and you said that it would actually make the citizens too happy so that consumption would increase as well. But as sure as you are, how so sure you are, and in fact there is a great uncertainty where citizens will spend it. You know how many, that 320,000 citizens with blocked accounts. From who? Whether to settle Telecom, whether to settle bank debts, etc. There won't be much increase in consumption. In addition, since you have not commented at all on the possible reaction of local self-government, which, due to the lack of resources from this contribution, contribute tax, which will have a reduction in income and will raise either a cut or increase the price of kindergartens or other utility services to which local self-government is entitled. And then those funds that have been released as you say 2 billion will go back to the other side not in consumption. I would not be so sure that it will increase consumption, so it will be the wheel of the Croatian economy, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92134	Thank you, too. My colleague Pandek's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92135	Thank you. So, basically you've confirmed more or less everything will, so end up in consumption and debt reduction regardless of what a difficult situation is when someone is due, but debt reduction is quite certainly a certain relief. As far as local self-government is concerned, I've been trying to contact the Ministry of Regional Development. They said that, therefore, certain compensatory measures would go towards facilitating the position of the body of local self-government. For example, I think it is proposed that the real estate tax will, to a greater extent, now go in favour of local self-government units. But I say and the minister himself said that even when we talk about the overall situation in the state of the local self-government unit, they had at the end of the year with slightly more liquid assets than they did, and I would even say from the citizens. And yet, all of these citizens end up paying for us all. And local self-government and this. So it's not a problem to take from local self-government, so we all take from citizens, and we have to try both the state and the unit of local self-government that I absolutely agree with, it's a criticism to everyone that we have to try as much of their position as possible and take as little of them together as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92136	Thank you. Walter Boluncic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92137	Thank you. Well, I've listened well to all the debates. I don't know if you got it. It's not a problem here that someone is against citizens increasing their basics, i.e. to cut their income tax. The question is who will pay the price, short and clear. That's the basic question. It means whether it'll be paid by a local community who barely lives on it. The fact that it may be liquid somewhere is strange to me, everyone goes into rebalancing, reducing and the reason why it can't be credited for consumption, but purely purposeful and in certain values. It's another thing. You said you'd cut the labour price. No, because gross stays the same. So the labour price is not going to go down, and the competitiveness in the matter of work is not going up much on this issue. The consumption that's given. Take a look in particular at spending a lot on food. Most of the food you buy is imports. So with this money, we will co-finance producers in other countries whether we like it or not. That's one thing. The other thing is, most social states mean that everyone pays, and fewer people use something that would otherwise come to cost one individual expensive, especially this layer of citizens who have less wages requires or are younger families with children, so they need a kindergarten or maybe they buy the first apartment. In this case, even those 5% are abolished, but VAT is paid. The other thing, what I said before. Two billion if it goes into consumption 500 million goes to the state. If based on this, a business company better get a profit tax back to the state. So the state here takes money from the local community. According to one clean budget, 125 kuna will be taken from every Croatian citizen. My city will take 7 and a half million kunas to go to VAT revenue, not income tax. So that's the thing. So, what you're saying is that there's going to be an increase in investment. The investor asks that taxes don't change, the investor asks him to have the land, the investor wants you to have spatial plans. Space plans are made from these funds. As well as intellectual services what someone thinks the local community is throwing money away as it recalls. So the question is, who's gonna pay the price?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92138	Thank you. My colleague Pandek's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92139	Here's a thank you. My dear colleague, I would therefore refer to this as yours if the investments didn't increase, if competitiveness hadn't been increased. Well, it's basically because now the labour price is down for new investors. Therefore, new investors will be able to choose whether to pay more, or less, in that gross price. If they're going to pay someone 5500 now, we want to, but it's always for me, when you ask me personally, I know that investing in the workforce is the most rewarding investment. But I'm also saying the investor on the outside is also looking at the overall tax burden of income. Everywhere, everywhere in the environment as I have listed all the countries that are competitive to us have a lower labour price when we talk about tax burden. And we think it's a good thing, to raise taxes on other therefore imposing, property and therefore taxing to increase on capital gains but to increase the labour price and the burden of income to reduce. It's the basic intensity of this and it's a step in the right direction. As far as local self-government is concerned, the possibility is also opened through the share of EU funds, where it is certainly a major role of local self-government units to withdraw the funds. Let's say the City of Zagreb pulled you in last year 618 thousand kuna. It is absolutely certain that this will be a certain effect on the City of Zagreb but the City of Zagreb has a great, great opportunity to increase its share in attracting EU funds. I believe some local self-government units are doing well, and some don't. And I believe there's one reserve he'll be able to use. But note, who will pay the price? Well, I always do, we're all paid by citizens. And local self-government and state. So there's no difference. People don't care who they pay taxes to. The interest of citizens is always to cut taxes, especially this income tax to free itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92140	Thank you. Dragutin Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92141	A fellow Pandek is very nice to hear from the mouth of a SDP member that we must finally think and implement measures to increase the consumption of population and purchasing power. It took you three years to figure it out, but, well, it's never too late. Taxation of income from labour in the Republic of Croatia is well below the EU average. Gross labour costs in Croatia, gross labour costs are three times lower than the EU average. Someone gave you incorrect information because you claimed we had too much income tax. Less than the average gross labour costs in Croatia, its taxation is far less. Third, is the role, one of the roles of tax policy, tax system and justice? I think, social justice, social justice, whatever you call it. Do you really believe that it is socially fair in Croatia in this social situation that the income tax rate of 40% is applied to gross wages only above 19 750? What do you think we have a fourth rate of 50% on income greater than 50 grand? Would that be more socially fair than what we just got? I think you would, but for that you should have the guts and not be afraid to say that anyone in the state can make a fair profit but those who will make a lot of money will and a lot of taxes. And in the end, unfortunately because of the funding model of local self-government not invented by this government, since 2001, if I'm not wrong about this kind of financing system, taxation of income and financing of local self-government are tied vessels, connected vessels. And that would make it very useful for the future Ministry of Finance to always go with a full display of possible compensatory measures when 51% of the local self-government's revenue side is changing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92142	Time, thank you. Answer me, comrade Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92143	Here's a thank you. It seems to me now that the gross salary, so more than 13200 kuna, will be taxed at the highest rate. So, regardless of this person, let me repeat what I said, people who have 11,000, 12,000 kunas, so highly educated professionals, engineers, engineers, ITs will somehow profit most from this. We're just about to keep these people here, stimulate them and encourage their employment. In my opinion one measure, one measure of truth alone can't say that this will be a magic wand, but one of the measures that will contribute will also be to allow the employer to pay them more. What's going on with this bill?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92144	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club Srdjan Gjurkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92145	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed deputy with associate, colleague and colleague. So, according to the National Reform Programme in the Republic of Croatia, this is one of the packages of the laws of that reform. So at the beginning of the debate on behalf of the HNS Club, which will support the adoption of this law, I would just like to point out that, within the EU, various reforms or measures have been implemented in order to have a picture to help citizens on the one hand to increase their income to citizens and to increase spending, on the other hand, reforms related to the incomes of local self-government units or some other companies that are within the EU countries are something that is common in the measures of excessive deficit and assessed by the Government in what way to proceed with reforms, in which way and in this case also to encourage unit reforms of local self-government to increase the efficiency of local self-government units, but also with compensatory measures most affected by projects, project financing, and not to buy voters politically, socially through associations, etc., etc. So the most common side of income measures in EU countries, and we know that 26 EU countries were essentially in the excessive deficit zone. Enhancing energy excise duties, increasing excise duties on cigarettes and tobacco products, introducing insurance premium taxes, quality tax and contribution payments, more effective tax controls, increasing the overall VAT rate, rates or reduced rates, eliminating the application of reduced VAT rates, reducing the lowest reduced rates on certain products, increasing the tax on property, increasing the dividends from profits, withdrawing dividends from the profits of public enterprises, increasing non-taxable revenues, increasing the toll, increasing the contribution to pension insurance, increasing social contributions, introducing or increasing taxes on capital gains, reducing social contributions to employees in public administration, reducing property sales taxes, increasing the share of the central state in total tax revenues, reducing the share of local government's share, introducing taxes on financial transactions, cutting tax exemptions and tax exemptions in the system. There have been measures either under way to freeze or reduce wages in the public sector, freeze or cut social benefits, reduce the maximum duration of the use of unemployment benefits, reduce capital investment on the burden of the state budget, freeze pensions, limit spending on certain budget items, reduce subsidies and support, reduce wages in local units, reduce pensions or limit early retirement, reduce the number of disabled pensions users, increase the level of minimum salaries, merge, abolish or transfer of state agencies to the state budget, reduce local state funding by the central state. So all of these measures, all of these laws that are in this high home are part of similar measures implemented or implemented in EU countries. When we talk about the Income Tax Act, it is good to remind our citizens that it is the third change in the income tax of this species since the beginning of the economic stagnation of 2009. On July 1, 2010, the number of rates fell from 4 to 3, before we had 15, 25, 35 and 45% to the current 12, 25 and 40. Then, on 1 March 2012, the amount of the basic deduction is increased from 1800 to 2200 kuna, and are changed by the size of the tax classes at which the 40% rate is applied to the part of the tax base above, we all know 8800 kuna, instead of the current 10 800. The tax schedule from the current 3 rates we can call and the general tax schedule applies to the taxation of income from salaries and pensions and the total income after the submission of the annual tax application. In addition to the general tax schedule, there is a single tax schedule taxing other income, income capital, rentals, etc. The bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia makes it clear that the intention of this law is to increase the basic personal deduction and increase the available income. And regardless of all the discussions in this Croatian Assembly that we have had so far and which will be after my debate it is an unquestionable fact. And the debate on why, one way or another, this is a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which, with its calculations, considers this to be the best time for Croatian citizens to provide them with larger revenues. And with all the debates that are completely not to say legitimate, but good opening up issues and reduced income of local self-government units and the possibility of raising certain prices within local self-government. This is the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which also supports the HNS club, believing that it will have the best effect for citizens, for increasing consumption and that it will have an impact on economic growth. The time will, of course, show whether it was correct enough, whether certain adjustments should be made, or whether this proposal is good. As far as local self-government is concerned, there will come an amendment to the Law on the financing of local self-government and the amendment of the Regional Development Act, and new instruments not only compensation. One thing is when we talk about compensation for losing a larger amount, it's said from 15 to 20%, but of course not every unit of local self-government is the same. In addition to compensation for direct ones, which are related to this Income Tax Act, compensations will come that stimulate those units of local self-government working with projects, which work with projects that are related to the EU. That the Republic of Croatia or the Government, through new funds or the Ministry, provides them with additional funds not only as compensation for lost "funds" from income tax, but also to be able to withdraw more than that from European funds. And that's basically when we talk about this law that ensures an increase in personal income, i.e. available income and adequate compensation, which is direct, and which is encouraging, long-term for those who are successful, who want to give citizens of their municipalities and cities a better life, better infrastructure, better kindergartens, better schools, better roads. On behalf of the HNS Club, I can only say in the end that as regards the taxation of capital gains and by the income of capital in the estrangement of financial instruments and structural products acquired from 1 January 2016, since that part should occur from 1 January 2016, I believe that in the following year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will once again consider this item, considering that given the undeveloped capital market, given the need to stimulate investment in the capital market, of course, not speculatively but the capital market which will ensure our economy stronger capitalisation and exit to the capital market in order to have as high as possible its balance sheet, its structure could be addressed and the banks continue to develop, that I believe we will have any changes in this matter. So on behalf of the HNS Club, we support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92146	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas, Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92147	Thank you very much. Comrade Gjurkovic, you say this is a government decision this law is a government decision, I will say that this law is a decision of the Kukuriku government one of the many bad decisions in a three-year term. You're saying that in this way, we're going to transfer the ball to the courtyards of local self-government, or as close as we can get to the citizens, to encourage local self-government to start reforms in local self-government, and then you said that the goal is to develop infrastructure, to do kindergartens, to live the local community to me somehow not to do it with each other. It has already been said here many times that this law is definitely fog and deception, so with media that can very well show it out in public. It can be depicted as honey and milk. The Kukuriku government is good, it gives citizens more salaries but local leaders are some bad characters there who were chosen by the game by chance in direct elections 2/3 of the electoral body directly elected the mayors in Croatia. And how can we even talk about that something will be good so that nothing is taken if taken by local self-government billions and 800 million kunas at a time when we have to prepare ourselves for the use of European funds, European projects because the only local self-government has so far shown that it can work. And then the worst part was talked about. Under the cover, therefore, citizens are given as something in principle a greater discrepancies, the state will take its 25% and local self-government will lose. Double-loss. It's not a good law for people to be honest.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92148	Thank you. Srdjan Gjurkovic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92149	Dear colleague, this is in line with the national reform programme, therefore absolutely not fog. The effectiveness of local self-government read a little State Audit report so you will see that everyone has more or less conditional opinion and functioning and use of funds, and as far as efficiency is concerned, so if local self-government is returned to those compensation measures provided for in the Republic of Croatia, it will "lose a billion kuna". The opening of 1.5% of income tax goes to a fund that prepares the direct grants of the unit of local self-government for European funds. European funds know how many billions of euros they have, and now that we're adding up all these things to watch 7 years and 7 billion that they lose if we have the basis for 2013 for the new Income Tax Act we have the Republic of Croatia including local self-government over 10 billion euros that we can withdraw for projects. And now you just tell me, whether an effective public administration that will deal less with sharing money, and more with projects and the use of grants is more effective, without talking about employment, about wages within local self-government that are much more than in civil servants. Therefore efficiency and rationality are something that is necessary, and this is part of that policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92150	Thank you. Petar Baranovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92151	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Gjurkovic, it is ungrateful for you these days to draw a story about the withdrawal of EU funds. You said in your presentation by trying previous speakers in a way mildly reprimanded about the intonation of their exposure, the critical tone that this government has put forward which I think is best for Croatian citizens. So you don't think that in this House there is anyone who thinks that the Croatian government is making proposals that he thinks will be of harm to Croatian citizens. So critical of this government and its good intentions, I believe there is no one. But the problem is, in this particular case, the government thinks wrong. And think wrongly for the reason that all previous speakers have elaborated, including me in the name of our club, because the fact that this is only seemingly and not justly distributed will be raised net incomes, and the final convention will be negative. There are no two states in this country, no units of local self-government anything else, and the central government of the other side, it just isn't. We promised both you and me and other MPs who initially entered Kukuriku's quotes of decentralisation in this country. This law is not on the trail of that promise, it's completely confrontational. And finally, if this government wants to help citizens, let it lower the price of electricity because all assumptions have been created, and this is evident from the results of HEP's business due to favourable circumstances that electricity can be lowered. Some reduction in the charge of the hired force which should be the Investment Fund because HEP has not invested anything or almost nothing in these three years.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92152	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Gjurkovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92153	Dear fellow, it is perfectly clear that decentralisation but obviously the transformation of such a system of local self-government is necessary and that it, like these laws, requires a moment when and in what way to do so, and I absolutely agree on this issue, and these discussions are already being opened, on the sustainability of certain units of local self-government, but also on part of the decentralisation of funds. This government has obvious support to adopt and implement certain measures that are not easy and simple and is prepared to help all those who are potentially, I mean local self-government units, at risk of functioning until local self-government is transformed. But what is important and crucial in this law is to provide citizens with a larger non-taxable share and greater income.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92154	Thank you. Ivan Shuker, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92155	Thank you very much. Comrade Gjurkovic, you said time would show. I think that Croatia unfortunately has no time to show anything anymore. This is a very dangerous experiment, first of all about the local self-government unit, but I don't know which way I'm going to do it again today, an experiment on those who shouldn't be experimented on. They're mostly children, they're old men, pensioners and sick and firefighters. And there's no room or time for experimentation. If what you are saying were true about compensatory measures then it would be possible to read and read in the 2015 budget and surely the minister would say in his opening statement today that in the budget, given that we have received the 2015 budget, that there is that, that and that. However, it is evident that units of local self-government will run out of billions and 800 kuna, it is evident that Croatian citizens will receive several new taxes and it is evident that only those who have enough now will benefit and this increase will not significantly change their standard and that is the only fact. And what's important and what's crucial is why that base that taxes it with 12% is not the same increase to 2006 but the remaining 2200. And if you wanted to play, then you could play with that 25% rate, but this is very, very dangerous.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92156	Thank you. Answer, colleague Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92157	Dear colleague, if I were to claim that this law would absolutely implement all that is imagined, then it would be some kind of visionary and wouldn't be serious. So like every law and everything that we bring to this House is very verifiable, and what I believe is done both with simulations and with a good sense of managing that Croatian budget, but also with a sense of local self-government. And so I say, I believe that it will show very quickly and prove that these measures are good, positive and like any law that has good and bad sides, that in any case, this law has a lot of better, better sides that improve tomorrow and the consumption of citizens and their sense of care for the state towards them, but also that we achieve that efficiency on local self-government where kindergartens will certainly be a priority for all mayors and mayors, as well as social ones, and not perhaps buying voters in the way they've done so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92158	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS club Mile Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92159	Thank you. I welcome the representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. At the SDSS Club, we greatly appreciate the Ministry of Finance's efforts to make any shift in budgeting and saving what is obviously difficult to save, and therefore we think that the Ministry of Finance is in a very difficult and ungrateful role today. Someone said today that we have the impression that they are in the role of some bankruptcy manager, which, of course, is not good. We think that whatever I say now in terms of some opposite opinion on this legislative proposal will not be a negative assessment, nor a criticism of the work of the Ministry of Finance, but simply thinking about how a model would be better and more efficient and try to solve a situation that concerns about everything. In Croatia, it has almost become a rule that mini tax corrections are done every few months. Namely, if the number of amendments and the addition of tax laws is viewed only in the last 10 years, it is impossible not to ask whether the benefit of tax corrections is greater than their administrative cost. In particular, this can be said of taxes whose share in the total revenues of the state budget is not as large as this income tax is. Income tax law of '93. 17 times changed by 2014. We don't count the consolidated texts and the corrections of the law. In other words, income tax statistics change on average once a year. That's what the statistics say. In total taxes, the country's income tax revenues were only slightly more than 6% by 2006, and since 2007, its share has dropped above 2%. In other words, income tax revenue has a very small share in the revenues of the state budget, as it collects about a billion and 300 million kuna from the state at an annual level. To remind you, income from income tax is shared between the state budget, the county budget and the unit budget of local self-government on whose territory that income is made. That's how the city or municipality makes that tax income somewhere around 56.5%, the county with 16%. Of which 12% is intended for decentralised functions about what we've been talking and listening to all day, which is education, fire and social care. 15 and a half percent, so the funds remain in the state budget. What is most important to us is that in areas of special state concern income from income tax is divided in favour of the city or municipality of 90% and in favour of the county 10%. Why does it matter to us? That's what I'll say later when I talk about certain comments from the people on this bill. Some experiences and combinations tell us that Croatia is one of the most burdened countries with income tax in Europe. This is especially the case when it comes to the highest income tax rate. In Croatia, it is 40% and above the average tax rate in Europe. It's 37.68%. Among the younger EU members, there are significantly less stimulating income tax rates, making it 10% in Bulgaria, in Lithuania 15%, Hungary, Romania 16%, Czech Republic 22, Slovakia 25%. Our non-EU countries have even fewer income tax rates. Thus, Montenegro has 9%, Macedonia 10, Bosnia and Herzegovina 10%, Serbia 15%. So we see what this looks like in countries of both the European Union and countries that are not members of the European Union. The questions that need to be regulated by this law, which the Proposer has explained through several thesis, mainly suggests that this law should bring the untaxable part of income as much as possible into line with the cost of living. Therefore, an increase in the basic personal deduction and change in tax classes will affect the increase in net wages according to an estimate of around a million commas of two hundred thousand workers. So it's also said here that taxpayers who make a gross salary of five thousand kunas of net wages would increase by a total of 53.76 kuna. For others up to 12,000 kuna, this increase would be 112 kuna, and for those who have a higher salary, so that would be an increase of 918 kuna. So here we have a category of pensioners who, with this increase, would get from zero to 49 kuna an increased pension with this tax solution. So the question arises whether these are really the sizes to go into these tax procedures. On the other hand, if we take the social component that we especially respect as a club and consider one of the basic things, then we can't overstretched the fact that the mass of people to whom a hundred kuna means a lot. And it's the mass of pensioners whose increase of 50 kuna means a lot to them. It is often more symbolic than economic benefits. From that point of view, if we look at and understand this problem, then we can say that there may be some effect on this legal proposal and that it will be achieved. And we also appreciate perhaps the ministry's intensities that it wants to achieve exactly that kind of social component of a general character in society today in this time of general crisis. But as a club, we can't help but say the other side, or the other side of the medal, the other side of this legal solution, and these are the consequences that will cause local self-government to function. So I won't speak in principle. And I'm going to take a few experiences out of the field, because we've been looking at the mayor of the municipalities who's going to hit this legal solution directly. So the Erdut municipality, which is in the east of Slavonia, which works, are mostly workers in Erdut municipality working mostly on the minimal, are on the verge of poverty. It means that this increase in personal deduction from 100 kuna will not increase any consumer power, it will not affect any more quality consumer basket. However, the Erdut municipality will thus lose about a million kuna in its budget. The Municipality of Vrhovina has only 5 people who enter that first category to increase their personal income, but this model of the Municipality of Vrhovina remains a gesture of 280 thousand kuna income on behalf of the tax. The municipality of Dvor has 15% less income tax and remains with this model without 350,000 kuna in its budget. Ervenik municipality of the extremely poor municipality has lost 95 thousand kuna. The city of Osijek runs out of 27 million kuna. And that's the thing to talk about, and we can't say that we're not satisfied with this solution, or we're very afraid that this legal solution combined with what we saw in the 2015 budget proposal where it was published on the Internet sites and where it is seen that at the position of the state aid to local self-government has made one general disturbance on the ground, where we see that some municipalities like the Ervenik Municipality that has so far received as an extremely poor municipality, a municipality on PPDS, have received some million kuna aid and have been left without that help. That the Community of Kistanje, which has so far received 2 million 400 kuna aid, has fallen to 200 thousand kuna aid. And when we put it in the context of these legal solutions and the municipalities won't exist for longer than February of the month, they'll be able to put the key in the lock. And that's where every story ends. So we need to figure out what's good for us and what's bad for this. Not wanting, of course, to criticise or attack the solution that the government has offered, we approach this very carefully and very carefully and we are afraid that this will be one of several elements that will mean the end for a large number of municipalities. According to some official data, some of Forbes's 490 units of local self-government 220 are on the verge of self-preservation. The first 10 are municipalities on the PPDS, mainly where the majority Serb population is. It's official data from last year. When we add these new solutions to that, when we add these elements from the state's budget, that is, the abolition of these state aids, then really these foreigners who assessed the capacity of our municipalities were obviously right, and we will come into a situation that at least 100 of these municipalities will tomorrow be at the edge of existence, that will put the key in the lock. And I'm not one of those people who says that the community is too much and I'm not one of those people who says they don't have a community function. Local self-government units have played an exceptional role and today they play an exceptional role in areas where the standard is much lower, where there is no chance of existence, of business, of doing business. I mean, local self-government units are often the only models and the only places where people can get a job. Whether through municipal works, whether through kindergartens, whether through public works, whether through other systems but they work. And by abolishing such local self-government, we create a large army of unemployed people. What's the size of the job? I'll just say that Gračac Municipality has 160 cemeterys. So, if we abolish that municipality, who's going to edit those 160 cemeterys in Gračac Municipality? So let's not look at the whole thing through the perspective of big cities, through the perspective of rich regions, we're going the other way. When we analyze the legal solutions that come to our table, we always put them in the prism and perspective of the poorest. Because if they're not going to hit the poorest, then we don't worry much about these rich environments, about pro-pulsing environments, about attractive environments, about environments that in themselves have some kind of positional rent, and they're in another situation. And finally, I'm asking a question, these funds that will be spent on the municipalities of this tax were they not more useful if we were to direct them to the formation of some fund, the Fund for the preparation of these European funds, of which so much money is expected? How do we think Erdut Municipality will be able to prepare funds for the EU when we have abolished a million kunas in its budget this way? Where is another million kuna to prepare EU funds? And then we'll find out that we're not capable and ready, that we're not dealing with all these trends, that we didn't get along, etc., etc. So this is not a criticism of the ministry's work, I repeat support in the ministry's work because it's not easy for them in this situation to iron out what others should do, I repeat what others should do. And finally, as long as we don't return to the cult of work and create a public space in public culture and education of cults of work so far we won't accomplish anything more with such measures than fire-fighting operations. I come from Baranja, not to banalize the matter was the story of an unhappy girl, the one who didn't have any food. Of course it's a tragedy, it never happened in Baranja. But now that it was harvest season, it was hard to find a season that would come for 200 kuna a day to work. And there's something wrong with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92160	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. My colleague Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92161	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The European Charter of Local Self-Government says: "The local units will, as soon as possible, be asked in an appropriate manner for an opinion in the process of preparing and making decisions directly concerned." This is one of the decisions that concern them, and it is not appropriate and it is not right that with associations of municipalities, cities and counties the right debate was not justified by finding out the best possible solutions but rather the president of the Association of Cities is invited to do so, and the cities here are the most vulnerable in the extreme case, to come within half an hour to talk to the ministry to find out what the Ministry of Finance is preparing in tax changes that will greatly affect the lives of citizens in the rural part of Croatia and when they speak the rural part of Croatia, then I think of the total Croatia except the City of Zagreb, because we are as a region in the extreme case as a country rural space. And now we're getting a law that's trying to show itself in public as some good law to the citizens, and it's for the citizens in the end bad. 1.8 billion are estimated to be losing local self-government or losing citizens because it's local self-government, which we're talking about, are we talking about some individuals, a few people who work there or are organizing life and meeting the needs of the lives of citizens in areas where they choose to live or where life has made them live. And then when we go a little deeper to analyze the state savings, the central state by centralization, of course, even bigger in a way that means taking tax revenues, the only safe tax revenues to the local self-government, but not giving up its share of cookies, and then nicely these 1.8 billion given that increased consumption will at least come out of the debate, will take 450 million kuna from VAT on those 1.8 billion. At the same time, it proposes compensatory measures towards local self-government on average, at an estimated rate of 395 million kuna. So now I ask you what righteousness is, what are we talking about, is the local self-government of Cinderella and the state of evil stepmother, or what is it about? Can we in general look at the situation in the country and say that local self-government is part of the system, that it is the fundamental unit where people live, where basic life needs of citizens are being solved. Yesterday there was an extraordinary assembly and the chairmanship of the Association of Cities because when we heard in Sibenik what is coming to us from the Vice-President of the Government of Mr. Greeks, then the immediate conclusion was to convene a session of the Assembly immediately to discuss once more the proposals of these laws that follow us, and to be seen and heard by the leaders of the local self-government units in due time before the law was passed. I don't know how aware we are of the situation, and I just said it in one of the replicas, that in the cities of the Republic of Croatia more than 60% of the population, that mayors and mayors were elected directly and that it was the will of the electoral body of the Republic of Croatia over 60% who directly elected their leaders. Do these citizens have the right to have their representatives give their opinion and to at least consider and respect it in one part if there are arguments. Yesterday's conclusion, one of the conclusions of our assembly and the presidency, is that we are looking for a joint session of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the chairmanship of the Association of Cities. Because this is the way the government treats local self-government is inappropriate and can no longer be put up with. This law, as already spoken here, is not going to do any good because, first of all, it should have been discussed in a package of all these laws that have been spoken of here, because this is about some reform, and this is about the partial parts that each of us is going to bring together, and we can't even bring it to the ad hoc because there's no real analysis of the situation, and we don't know what we're ultimately trying to achieve, and we don't know what we're actually going to achieve in the end. What we estimate and what we discussed at the meetings of the Association of Cities was that it will ultimately be harmful to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Not because local self-government and leaders want to impose something on citizens, not because local self-government leaders are now threatening not to know the government and the finance ministry, that they will raise prices, so they will not be able to withstand what is now being imposed. It's very rare for those who can handle it. There will be a collapse of the system at local level and major problems will arise. We need to become aware of that. I think that the adoption of this law is so totally unprepared, that it is not agreed, that the European Charter of Local Self-Government is not respected and that the smartest and wisest would be to delay the adoption of this law, that at least it is sent to another reading because we are already making budgets at local level without any instructions, without real knowledge of what is waiting for us, and then we were imaginary in this part of our budgets now, nothing more important will happen to us if in the first, second month we make budget rebalancing, but that they should be done as it should be with very clear knowledge and very clear figures waiting for us there. So this is definitely about one of the central government's systematic violences over local self-government. And it has to stop. I don't know how my colleagues and colleagues from the Kukuriku coalition are going to justify it later at home, there are probably some arguments, some knowledge of how they're going to handle it in their midst, but I know for a fact that citizens will not benefit from it, and I know that the law is unfair. Because if a man who has 3 500 thousand kunas gets 30, 40 kunas more, and one who has 15 and more gets a thousand and more. I ask a general question, where is justice? If only that element had been solved, I would have voted for the law no matter what was going on at the local level. But he's unfair and I can't possibly raise my hand for something that will give those who have 15 and more thousand kunas a year more, and those who have 3, 3.5 thousand kunas will get 400 to 1,000 kuna more. I for such a law cannot raise my hand and repeat people take this situation very seriously, take seriously the conclusions of the Association of Cities they have made unanimously and kindly ask you to really agree to find the best possible solutions because we all want things to start better and get out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92162	Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92163	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, it's nice to hear it's really nice to hear that HSS is against increasing the untaxable part and increasing citizens' salaries, it's nice to hear and you think that this collapse of the system and systematic violence is also wonderful to hear, but I haven't heard the argument except of course that you are against as a member of the Association of Cities of this law. but I didn't hear you say in my budget there's that and that, I have to stop it now, cut it down, and I can do it anyway because my priority is kindergarten, school and road. That's an argument when he says something is being threatened, not the use of funds still many of what I've said, let's take the State Audit and their report of unintended use of funds to use political points. Time has passed and it is good to use funds for political moves, to buy certain voters, and it is time to work projectably, to work on priorities that are directly related to the interests of citizens and municipal infrastructure, social and kindergartens. Let's talk about the budgets and where it has to be fucked, then we'll see that it's not the collapse of the system, it's the introduction of order.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92164	Branko Hrg, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92165	My dear colleague, thank you for introducing this issue. Namely, the HSS in Croatia has 12% of local leaders, as many council members in the councils of municipalities, cities and counties, and it has a clear right and obligation to talk about what is happening now. But as far as my budget is concerned, My city's budget, so I don't honestly know how I'm going to calm down about 2 million kunas how much less I'm going to spend on general spending, and I don't understand when you're talking about non-intentional spending, I don't know what you're alluding to, but we're getting ready for investment stuff. So I have 38 million kunas of secure money from European projects for some economic infrastructure programmes, but I won't be able to use that money to spend on citizens. Not pre-election, not important. This law is pre-election law, this is fog, this is deception and it's a fact. But this kind of attitude towards local self-government if it is the attitude of the CNS or not given to the God of the Kukurik coalition then it's all clear to me, then it's obvious that by passing various laws he wants to hit on the local self-government that he wants to degrade it. But that's not good, that's not wise. And the Association of Cities as the strongest association in Croatia because it has fiscal potential is very relevant to talk to it and everyone wants to do it well. You'd talk to these people because they don't want bad, they want good, they want a strong state, they want good finances, they want the development of their environment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92166	Vice President Milorad Batinic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92167	Thank you, Vice President. In fact, I didn't mean to report for the replica, but your sentence systematically violence against local self-government, you, as well as I, have a third term as far as I think or a fourth even means that you remember the transition in 2008 when the government then launched a law on regional development and which was then some recommendation of that law that came into force in 2008, the balance of some of the basic incomes of the local self-government unit, however, happened to us in Sanader's bananas in 2009 when our budgets even came down by 25% to 30% overnight. We survived, but then everyone lost to the state, to the citizens, to local self-government. This law is difficult not to support, as mayor I also share concerns like you and many colleagues here regarding our budgets. However, I also know, and you know a lot of here colleagues and colleagues have who are in the executives at local level that we will find a way and get the strength to compensate for this deficit, this lack of income that will follow. Of course, there are positive examples, unfortunately there are also those negative ones that fellow Gjurkovic said were funded with several million kunas professional football clubs that are not the role of local self-government, non-transparent spending of money. There are a number of units of local self-government that collect rents whether oil, whether hydro rent, etc. which doesn't come in at all. The way you spend it. Namely, I am convinced and especially when looking at certain environments of my colleague Bolunčić Istria when he said how much he would lose the city of Pula. Let counterpart Boluncic say how much income per capita is tax in Istria, Pula, how much income per capita and some other environment. I don't think that's gonna be a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92168	Thank you very much. Branko Hrg, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92169	Well, I don't know if you feel it or not, but I'm gonna say this is systematic violence against local self-government and hardly anyone can convince me otherwise. Since 2001, I've been mayor, I've survived all the governments and all the coalitions. I have to say, the easiest thing I've had since 2007 was to get there in 2009, and that's where we were strongest. We've had some really good budget revenues here. And then there was a disturbance but well, nothing more significant happened, we adapted, we managed how it could go, but in some ways we could always plan and we could know but it doesn't matter now. I didn't say I wouldn't vote for this law, I said that despite what's going on in this Law on Local Self-Government, and I believe that you also find it unfair to take someone a billion and 800 as a share of citizens, okay, which we all accept, and then 450 million to take back to the state budget. Well, that's not very fair. But I said I would still vote for him if there were not so much injustice in the law, and the injustice I see is that the largest number of employees in that category is 3-4 thousand salaries and that they will get 40-50 kuna, that it is so little that it is negligible, and that in principle 80,000 employees in Croatia will, according to the minister, get 1,000 and more, respectively, 12,000 and more per year. And that's why I'm not voting for this law. But violence against local self-government is absolutely present, and even in discussions it does not feel, not of course, from you, but often from colleagues and colleagues who may not have been local officials, it feels.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92170	Thank you very much. Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92171	Thank you very much. I don't want to be, I've never been any kind of spokeswoman for the government or the minister of any kind, but what I was going to say when you spoke of this unfair division, redistributed from these 2 billion kunas, remember Mr. Prime Minister's words when he spoke of this so-called. the middle layer of intelligence, doctors, teachers, teachers, etc., that they were really neglected for years and decades in their salaries and that the time had come to compensate in some way. Well, it seems to me that this law is being passed somehow in that sense and in that direction, because most of these professions are just with salaries in the ranks of the one that allows some increase of 1,000 or more kunas. Of course, I'm not happy that the vast majority of people who have really not to say small wages stay on the increase of about 50 or 100 kuna and it should really be different, I say monthly, do something different to calculate and figure out that somehow the wolf would be full and the goats would be numbered as they would say. What you said was an electoral law, yes, it may be electoral for those who pass this law but it is counter-election for all local self-government leaders because there is no accidental spending of money in all local self-governments. Someone here was talking about funding football clubs and I don't know what. Well, it's not like that, nor is there, therefore, one too much haughtiness and a waste of money in local self-government. With all this I just wanted to add that this law should go with some kind of draft regulation or any compensation to local self-government. Then we could discuss how that lack of local self-government will be compensated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92172	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Replication response, Branko Hrg. Please take care of the weather.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92173	Thank you very much. Well, it's absolutely good that doctors and teachers and other professions who are highly qualified get a higher salary, and that's an absolutely good thing, and there's no one there, but it's not nice that those who need it most and who are really threatened don't get almost anything. And it's even less nice that those who don't work out of this together won't have anything either. So I'm going to say what I used to say, why didn't we go the other way, why didn't we cut the VAT to 10%? In this way, they would balance this social part so that, of course, those who have higher salaries a little more, they would buy more, they would have more savings, those who have less salaries would have less savings but would have savings, and those who don't do the same would have savings. And the state would also return a good part of it, and a part of domestic food production would still be preserved. That would be something that could pass and that would produce results. Yes, this is as you have confirmed the electoral law for a coalition that governs the state and anti-election for local leaders because eventually it will all be broken down on them, because local leaders do not even have the media, do not have the opportunity to talk about it in this way as it has, of course, the state authority and very slowly, that ball will end up in the courtyards of the mayor, and they will be the ones who will wear that hot ball in their bare hands or blame or in debt, and all of this together will eventually pay the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92174	Citizens always pay, that's by definition. A colleague, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92175	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Deputy Minister with an associate, respected colleague and colleague. By the Association of the Cities of the Republic of Croatia, I received a slightly modified document in which the Association of Mayors or Mayors of the Association of Cities refer to laws that are now being passed in the Croatian Parliament, either this week, or next week, and in any case, there is a great review on the adoption of the budget of the units of local self-government which, at the moment according to the Finance Act, must also bring budgets of units of local self-government and mayors, i.e. by 15 November, have already made a draft budget of units of local self-government, i.e. regional and regional self-government. What I would like to draw from this document is a review of how public revenues are shared in the EU, so it is noticeable that the more developed state is that the share of the budget of local self-government units, i.e. local self-government, is significantly higher, and where countries are less developed is smaller and the share of the budget of local self-government in public revenues. For example, in Belgium where it comes to 30%, so here are a series of other countries up to 20%. What's the case with us? In the Republic of Croatia, by this change of law, the share of the budget of local self-government units including the city of Zagreb, clearly and the county is about 15.8%. After this amendment, which changes are taken somewhere around 2 billion kunas to units of local self-government, based on an amendment to the Income Tax Act. The percentage of local and regional self-government budgets will fall somewhere to 13.5 or 6 per cent. When we know that income tax is one of the basic income units of local self-government, and when we know that this amendment to the Income Tax Act will reduce that original income by 20%, we can withdraw approximately the parallel if this represents about the same obstacle to the Minister of Finance, or the Government, if the Parliament would reduce the VAT rate from 25 to 21 or 22% at the time of adoption of the state budget. Because the situation facing the units of local self-government, i.e. the leaders of the units of local and regional self-government that must prepare these days for their city, municipal councils and county councils, the draft budget, which, by this day's change of law, is reduced in basic income by 20%, so that it would be equivalent for us as a Parliament to pass today a law reducing VAT from 25% to 21%, then asking the Minister of Finance and asking the Government to now base such changes in the law in that framework, which is reduced by twenty percent, to be able to manage and prepare this Assembly a state budget for next year. This would be about the same trail and the same situation as today's county, mayors, the head of government, or finance minister, would find himself. Because today, on several occasions, we have heard that this unit of local self-government will easily, or easily, come out of it to reduce a little donation towards certain sports, cultural, etc. To society, how it might reduce some investments that may not matter so much. And as they did increase the number of employees in the meantime, then they have higher expenditures from that base, and if they hadn't gone so far as to increase the number of employees in local self-government units, then they wouldn't have any problem at all. If we went with the argument... Contraio wouldn't we in the Parliament be able to say the same thing to the government that this government has established countless state agencies over the past three years, raised salaries in those agencies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How many new employees were there in those agencies? Therefore, when the Ministry of Finance, or the Government, teaches the leaders of the local self-government units how to behave after they are deprived of 20%, about 2 billion kunas of basic income, then the Parliament could do the same thing, reduce the VAT rate and say now that you gentlemen are willing to put yourself in that framework, and you act in the same way and reduce the expenditures of the state budget, and that would seem to me about to reduce the deficit of the state budget. We'd be below 3%. So this is what I wanted to caricate to say in what position local self-government units are in today when we pass this law and reduce the significant revenues of local self-government units, which are the basic incomes at which income and based almost the work of local self-government units. The compensation measure since 400 million kuna was said to be created in a way that increases the share of cities and municipalities from 56.5 to 60% in any case is not enough, it is not enough for the basic needs that... local self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And just from that document that I mentioned earlier, the mayor's association of cities has asked that share to rise to about 70%, not 60%, as foreseen by the Local Self-Government Units Act. On the other hand, I said it in some replica this morning. As we reduce this bill and significantly to local self-government units at the same time, we increase these amendments to the law, and this should be clearly said, we are increasing the revenues of the state budget in the section of which it refers to the introduction of interest taxes on savings. If, and this information is safe, it is verified, and it seems to me that it does write in the light of this law a total of 170 billion savings of Croatian citizens in banks in the Republic of Croatia, although the average interest is somewhere above 2.5%, it is certainly up to 2.5% even to 2.7.2.8%, although on that interest which is... we determine the 12% tax, it is not the income of 300 million kuna, as it explains, that the revenues of the state budget will be increased from the basis of the introduction of interest tax but 600 million kuna. It's a very simple calculation and I keep it so at the same time as the state and we, by voting this law, are reducing significant resources to local self-government units, then by 600 million kuna, we increase the revenues of the state budget. If we have already passed this law, if it is in a certain way covered by the income of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, then it would be correct and logical for me to leave this interest tax on the savings of citizens to local self-government units in full. That would be one compensatory measure that would significantly help. 600 million kuna or 500 million kuna is not a small amount of money, and that money, along with this compensation, could help local self-government units to make budgets easier for 2015. And something else that I also mentioned, it would not be good for the practical implementation of this law to include only part of the employees of the Republic of Croatia who are employed in the state and public sector and indeed only to get paid because the salaries of employees in the public sector and in the state administration are indeed fixed in gross. And by doing so, the bill will increase wages right in the state sector, in the public sector, in local administration and self-government. However, I am afraid that this law is not played in the real sector precisely for employees who should export economic growth to the Republic of Croatia that this law is played out in such a way that the employer who contracts with his employee, the employee, pays in the net amount that then this savings that would otherwise belong to an employee is practically not transferred to the employer and that in this way, in the best way, the government wants to increase employees' salaries, although at the expense of local self-government units, does not end up where this law wanted them to end up with the employer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92176	Thank you very much. Comrade Josip Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92177	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So today, at the beginning of the debate, I'm going to find that this is really a law that many local self-governments are going to throw on their knees, and it shouldn't have been, and it wasn't going to be announced that it was going to be. And it says in the promises made by this authority in Chapter 21, I don't know why 21 is at the end of your Plan 21, a policy of decentralisation. It says, "Our goal is to increase the powers of local and regional self-government and their income." That's the goal. Currently, 9 out of 10 kuna tax goes to the state budget and the remaining 1 on all local and regional self-government. Our goal is to catch up with developed EU countries and to increase the share to 20% of the total tax revenues from the current 10. The decentralisation of budgetary positions is one of the real and feasible requirements. And that was some position with which it came to power. After numerous turbulences within all tax laws, we find that the state's revenues increased from 2011 to 2014 by around 3 billion kuna. There is also an increase in VAT, a number of amendments to various laws. And today we came to this Tax Act on, amendments and additions to the Income Tax Act. One of the SDP mayors recently looked back on these changes. When he was president of the Association of Cities he was very energetic, he was very aggressive towards the former governments and he always sought out for cities and municipalities what he was, i.e. for the cities what may have been and then unreal. However, what he said is the same about our social democracy today, which is being sold for it. Well, here's one from his interview just to make it easier for all of us to talk about. "I understand the desire to increase wages to citizens, but the biggest increase in income will be achieved by only those who have the highest incomes, which is not very social democratic. With this law, Rijeka loses 50 million kunas." And then it states what he's lost under the concept of decentralisation from Plan 21. He says, "We lost 750 thousand kuna on employees we had to pay for issuing construction permits. The state doesn't pay us back." Then he says, "Our country is booked on property that was city-wide through the State's Attorney's Office, in business spaces, now no one manages these business premises, they don't make any income, they're just a burden. The city pays VAT, you've introduced us to pay as VAT on rent space, we have to pay it even though we haven't charged from the tenants." Finally, he found that the government had raised its hands from Plan 21 and that it was in fact everything was exactly as the prime minister said figuratively. We promised something, and we've come here in the last year of our term of office to make up for some methods of trying and making mistakes every year what we did wrong last year. When we bring this law together with the new Regional Development Act, we can determine what I said at the beginning that many local self-governments will end up on their knees because it's simply impossible to make up for all of this given the state's appetites but also its desire for everyone to like it in this coming year. I come from a small local self-government that has 1300 inhabitants, original incomes at the level of 7.5 million kuna depending on year to year, income tax is about a million and a half kuna as much as we collect. We will lose this bill by budgets of up to 300,000 kuna. Our program of needs in preschool education and education is for 2014. 350 thousand kuna. So we'd be on our way next year already with this income tax bill we'll be planning a level somewhere around a million and two hundred thousand kunas. We have to make up for that loss somewhere because if you have something and you lose to be equal, you have to pay that back. Vrtic is now co-financed on the scale of 60% of local self-government, 40% of the full economic price is provided by the user. This price is about 1200 kuna per month, so let's go to 10 months 12,000 kuna local self-government here gives 7 000 and the user 5 000 kuna. How are we gonna handle this? We'll probably have to raise that part of the economic price that applies to the user by 5%, that these 600 kunas you'll give him if on average we have salaries on the net close to 5,000 kuna he'll make about 600 kuna more receipts in 12 months to make it go away somewhere. Because you have a service to provide, in kindergartens are mostly children who work, they can't keep them, they don't have anyone to look after them, and they're just going to die out that way. So 600 kunas more through kindergarten if we raise that part of their economic price from 40 to 45% to 12,000 it's about those 600 kunas and it'll be good if it's out. However, if he contracted his salary online means that he has a net 5,000 kuna he will certainly not get those 600 kuna and when we who surely lost our 300 thousand kunas to him we try to make up for it we will actually take him to one cost of 600 kuna. He with this law actually loses 600 kuna from his income. And I believe that there will be practice in a large part of local self-government because it is a life, one is a theory, one is the desire of the authorities to like it, but in practice there are many laws that have been declared both revolutionary and those that will lead to a better life actually corrected by very strange reasonings and all of us have determined that mistakes will be made and mistakes have been made. What's for sure means that the measure is taken safely by local self-government, that the compensation that's already announced we're taking a billion and eight hundred in a way that we're going to provide you with a compensation fund, or a settlement fund of 40. Somewhere there's a big difference between a billion and four hundred million kuna. We don't know where it's going to end, so there's something that's going to go from not knowing from tax to savings, from some other sources, but it's sure to be taken, it's almost not going to come back, who's going to end up happy and satisfied and I don't know. I think we'll all end up unhappy, and especially those who might be the most expecting, and these are the employees who, on the very examples I've explained, and it's not just kindergarten, there are sports associations, there are pensioners' associations, and defense groups, there are all those who try to achieve some sort of programme from the local budget every year. I argue that this law is not a happy solution, nor has it been affected along with that law on regional development, which will further, as the PPDS mountainous areas and islands have been written specifically, lead to an even worse situation. So here's what I'm going to do is I'm going to finish this debate with one of the Prime Minister's statements he once said, and when he said we have exclusive error information, there's going to be more. So I hope nothing but mistakes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92178	You obviously like the prime minister when you quote him all the time. Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92179	Thank you very much. Mr. Boric, you have shown in simple style and language terms what will actually happen in one and other local self-governments, and especially on the example of kindergartens where parents mainly in all of Croatia are participating with around 40% of how anyone depends on wages, from income. However, what is proclaimed in Croatia and what is constantly said is an increase in the availability of kindergartens and an increase in the number of children in kindergartens, so 55% of children only attend kindergartens, 45% are grandmother services and other forms of childcare and childcare. But when you talked about how this law would actually produce an increase in salary and if it is agreed as fixed it does not have it, it is almost certain that local self-government will compensate for this deficit that will be missing in the budgets to shift the focus here to increasing parental participation in paying kindergartens. And what Schooker says "At the chalice he got on the bridge lost." And if the salary is fixed and such a contract is signed then it is also a burden on people who are in a working relationship, who are lucky to work for them that because of lack of funds in local self-government they still have more difficult living conditions, and in fact all of this contributes to the demographic poverty of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92180	Josip Boric responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92181	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic, I think that many will reach out, here in my municipality, we do not have a tributary and that is one measure so that we do not touch the part between the economic price of kindergartens, but you will again burden the employees, again they will come with themselves into the gap between this desire that they are given to get some higher salary and what they will really get. And there may be the strongest story about these salaries that have already been contracted in the net. I don't know where the government will get a million people in Croatia. I believe it sounds just as good-looking, and what I said today will happen to us in local self-government. So that means that our mayors and our mayors, they have the highest salary in these small environments, rarely whoever has bigger than them, they're going to get paid, they're going to have a smaller budget, they're probably a little less and a commitment, and what happened in Zagreb now is going to happen to us, an absurd situation, that you're going to pay the mayor a bigger salary, so now this mayor is going to have a bigger salary for a job that doesn't work. He can't work. It's absurds. And every law makes us even more in this direction to really begin to doubt where this government is going. I quoted the mayor of Rijeka who rightly criticises his authorities now because 50 million kuna in the city of Rijeka is 7% or 8% of their executive budget. Well, it's not like I took 5 or 10 million from you, so you'll find it somehow. 50 million kuna is big money for the city of Rijeka. Which is a compensatory measure which, in addition to everything he's listed, which we've already done to him as a state, and then you have that promise from Plan 21, at the end, Chapter 21, that the state will be decentralised. So what we're seeing is all some kind of fiction where no one's going to be able to figure it out anymore, and neither are those who are supposed to be doing this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92182	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92183	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. With this law, it is very interesting to watch the budget, the law on budget implementation, the law on real estate tax and the Law on the financing of units of local self-government and to see how many spillages there are between them from hollow to empty. Here, so when you look at the argument of the Real Estate Tax Act, then it's said that the state with the basis of an amendment to the Real estate tax will lose 70 million, actually units of local administration 70 million, and that the state will get 115 million. It's the Real Estate Tax Act. Then you take the Law on the financing of units of local self-government and where it is said that the share of local self-government units in real estate tax will increase, and it says that with that basis the unit of local self-government will, in fact, lose 300 million, not that the units of local self-government will get. And when you add to that a beautiful circus that was made in the budget and the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, because today many mayors in the area of special state care called me happy that they received much more funds than last year. However, the joy lasted for a short time because they did not read the Law on Budget Implementation. So far, income tax returns have not been seen because it was returning directly from the accounts, and now the government is going to income that income tax, so the units based on that famous Greek level of development have determined the means to pay the income tax and it has put it into the budget as a cost. And now look, the income tax return last year was somewhere around, actually this year was about 400 million, and the assistance to local self-government units, what was at the ministry's position was somewhere around 300 million. And this year the position and return and help is 500 million. Now how many units of local self-government lost 200 and when you add it all together, mix it up, mix it in, you'll get really one bread that's inedible to local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92184	Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92185	Thank you very much. Well, that's exactly why it's good to have such a wide discussion because I'm sorry first that this government had no sense of cities and municipalities at all, nor did it listen to them at all, nor did it want to communicate with them through their associations, and by its decree, by its own decision, it simply took down most of their incomes that were as safe and secure as they were. And now, today, indeed all of us in HDZ, especially those leaders, mayors, have looked at the budget on the government's side, there's a Matulj municipality has 10 million kuna, one city of Delnice 3 million kuna, all of these cities and municipalities with..., from mountainous mountainous areas have really large amounts, not people, were first of all happy that the government is going to give them through some kind of means, but the sobering will be exactly minus these 200 million kunas that you've been talking about, when it all agrees, again, to the public seems nice, even immediate joy, but in reality it will be just a great disappointment. So is this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92186	A colleague of Branka Juričev-Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92187	Thank you very much, Vice President. Deputy Minister and Assistant, colleagues and colleagues. So the proposal for the adoption of the laws of urgency states, the adoption of this law by emergency procedure is proposed to redistribute the tax burden in such a way as to enable taxpayers to increase their salaries and pensions as soon as possible, thus affecting the preservation of their standard of living. If this were true, all of us on both sides of this assembly would raise both hands, so that it can increase both wages and pensions and that it affects the preservation of our citizens' living standards. Just as Prime Minister Lalovac said in the opening part that great inequalities are present in our society and that this law requires them to be reduced and therefore interest is imposed on savings. This law says neither will the standard of living of our citizens remain the same as before, nor will the inequalities present in society be reduced, however, they will increase. In fact, at the salary of 3900 kuna, and some of our citizens can and can only dream of it, there will be a monthly increase of around 50 kuna. They, however, with 16 thousand and more kunas monthly increase of 1000 kuna, which means that 20 of those citizens with the above-mentioned salary should work to get a monthly amount of how much one of us or 20 months should put aside those 50 kunas in order to get as much as we in one month. Doesn't that mean there's going to be more inequality? Furthermore, we have already heard the most will lose almost 1 billion and 800 million kuna units of local and regional self-government. I wonder what cities and municipalities or county are, who are they? Are those the buildings where people work or are they the same citizens? In fact, the city of Vodice will lose a little less than 2 million kuna through these amendments of the law, and it is now necessary for 2015 to see where to save those 2 million kunas. Our kindergarten for him stands out 3 million and 600,000, which means we can't get all that amount on the kindergarten item. What are you gonna do about it? We can't reduce the number of employees, we have a pedagogical standard to act on, and so far we've rationalized all possible costs. Increase the amount of participation of minimum 50 kunas, those 50 kunas that will receive in the pay bag an employee who has a salary of 3,900 kuna. Of course, those with 16 grand and more kunas, they certainly have nannies and they don't care what kind of participation it is, but it means that this is going to hit the ones with the lowest incomes again. Furthermore, something should be pinched from the scholarships, meaning either a smaller number of scholarships or a smaller amount of scholarships. It's going back to the ones with the lowest income. Furthermore, we can save that amount, and we should not save from social giving. They go to the unemployed, the disabled, the sick, and again the ones with the lowest incomes. When it comes to associations for children to have the same number of trainings, the same possibility of going to the competition, the same quality of administration will probably increase membership fees and again and it goes on burden to those with the lowest incomes because children of those with seniors may also have individual trainers. Furthermore, the city administration, you say, reduce the number of employees, how every new law brings us new obligations. The state thus granted us the obligations he had before the agricultural director, the noise control that the sanitary inspector had before, the supervision from the area of construction inspection, control and surveillance from the area of traffic police and the move of feathers so new tasks, and the move washes away new expenditures. What counterpart Linic would say, new penalties for municipalities and cities. And then when you talk about actually a million citizens going to have an increase, I'd say you should point out that more than 900 thousand citizens are going to get in a pay bag of about 50 kuna, but a lot, a lot less of what I talked about earlier. And then who and why are we passing this law? We're bringing it in for maybe 3,500 citizens who are going to get thousands and more kunas. It's probably about new justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92188	Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92189	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Members, I can understand one part of the chiefs and mayors in this House when we talk about the impact of the Income Tax Act, but I would like you on the other hand to commend the Law on Legalization which has assured you in your budget of about 5 million kunas which is much less than you have mentioned now, and you have struck great tears for the welfare of who will lose. Therefore, care should be taken if it is criticised to boast independently of what side it comes from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92190	Branka Juričev-Martinchev, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92191	Thank you very much. So a colleague should know that the legalisation fee is not only the income of a local self-government unit but also of a regional and state budget and is strictly a dedicated income as well as a municipal contribution. The communal contribution can only go to edit municipal infrastructure, and income from income tax goes to everything I have previously stated, means social, scholarships, kindergarten, city administration and associations.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92192	Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radjenovic's closing statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92193	Thank you, Madam Vice President. At the shortest, I haven't heard the whole debate, but I can see that in the main section it's developed into how much it's going to lose local self-government units with this tax. All of us in this hall know those who stayed in this late hour more or less accompanied by finance so they know that the GDP in Croatia has dropped 15% in the last 6 years, that in the real sector we lost nearly 200 thousand jobs, and that the minister here said that, in the last 6 years, the increase in the number of employees in the local self-government unit was 20%. One trend, another trend. A lot of people were talking about it, and I'm just going to look back on what Mrs. Mayor Vodice said. The city of Vodice will lose 2 million kunas, yes, and the Guides your citizens will have more in their budget. It goes for everyone else. I'm sorry that it may not be that we failed to discuss with the Local Self-Government Funding Act, and this law, we'll discuss it early next week, but obviously it's a subject that encroachs all together, but that we'll all have to realise the benefits and negativity of this bill and we'll all put together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92194	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92195	Thank you very much. Mr. Deputy Minister, what you just said isn't exactly simple because the citizens of Vodice won't get it all. Part of it will return to the state register means 25% if you go to the citizens spending more will return to the state register. So the city of Vodice will lose in this part. And you should definitely try to understand what's being said here today all the time and what the associations of cities and municipalities are looking at. All this will eventually come at the expense of those at whose expense should not come, they will come at the expense of the citizens. So it's not the local self-government that wants to impose on its citizens. Every mayor or mayor or chief or chief wants as little charge as possible, as many projects as possible. And it's not good when a state-level government tries to place a story like that that's going the other way. No, it's not the correct data and it's just that neither your findings nor your calculations are correct and it's actually saying that you haven't prepared the law properly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92196	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92197	Thank you very much. Mr. Deputy Minister, through all these laws that we are discussing today, a number of new taxes have been introduced. And now I don't get it. The only thing left in Croatia untaxable when you sell the company in the set, then you don't pay any taxes. Because today you tax dividends, you tax income on increasing securities, so if you buy shares and sell them, etc., you tax 25% of real estate, land, that's a change of this law. So the only thing that's left untaxable is by chance building a house or a cottage so you can start a company and then buy that company to some Hungarian and that Hungarian or someone, I mean, Hungarian, could be anyone else, buy that company, and actually buy a real estate, and don't pay any taxes, and nobody cares if that company works or if that company doesn't work. Or, say, a company that works, if you sell a machine or sell a building, then you pay a 25% VAT, but if you sell a company in a set you don't pay anything. Well, it's probably the only thing left for this government she hasn't taxed, so don't be surprised if in some future times they still have this little time left to introduce a tax on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92198	Igor Radjenovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92199	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Shuker, obviously you didn't read this law properly. Yeah, we also tax capital gains, right, so if that happens within three years any of these combinations that anyone would think would pay a capital gains tax. Yes, they will pay and we are introducing this tax only since 1.1.2016. Thank you very much. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92200	I don't expect that kind of replica from my colleague Shuker. She's a colleague of Branka Juričev-Martinchev, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92201	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Deputy Minister, you say two million kunas that won't be in the budget of the city of Vodice will be with our citizens. True, but what citizens? I was talking about those citizens whose income or net salary is 3900 kuna will receive 50 kuna, but they will increase the price of kindergartens, the scholarship will be reduced, membership in associations will increase, subsidies for transportation to high school students will be lost. They'll lose, and probably whoever has the income of 1,000 kuna for this month will certainly increase it. Likewise, when you talk about the number of workers with a pen move, the employees of the State Administration of the Office for Physical Planning have moved from state administration to units of local and regional (regional) self-government, as well as all those tasks I spoke about, traffic control, construction inspection, sanitary inspection, agricultural inspectorate. It's all business that you've reduced the government's liabilities and jobs and transferred to local and regional self-government units, and now you're transferring us to have a lot more employees than before.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92202	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92203	We are going to the following, final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR. 727. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia were delivered within the business period and became an integral part of the final draft law. In addition to the Government, the amendment was submitted by representatives of Peđa Grbin, Marija Lugarić and the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, representative Valter Boljunčić and representative of Nansi Tyreli. I would like the representative of the proposing, respected Igor Radjenovic, deputy finance minister to declare the amendment of the respected representative, Marija Lugaric and Peđa Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92204	Amendments by respected MPs Lugaric and Mr Grbin are accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92205	Thank you very much. They become an integral part of the final bill. Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community in the Croatian Parliament, the respected deputy minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92206	The amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92207	Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92208	In fact, in the income tax system, two principles are applied according to the scope of the obligation of two principles, so for residents, the principle of world income, and for non-residents, the principle of foreign income. The following basic principles have been introduced since 1 March 2012 to tax the pensions of Croatian residents from abroad. The reason for the introduction of such income was the desire to avoid double non-taxation for this reason, so we cannot accept this amendment in continuity.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92209	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, the respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92210	Thank you very much. I assume that the Deputy Minister got rid of this last sentence and said in the event of this, they would be taxed for avoiding double taxation. non-taxation, you said to avoid it because the thing is that by law we avoid double taxation is precisely defined as it is. [[Intruding Radjenović: not taxation.]] However, this is primarily about emigrated Croats from overseas countries and about the European countries of Switzerland and other countries with which Croatia does not have a signed agreement to avoid double taxation. However, I would just like to remind you of Article 10 here. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia says: "Besides Croatia protects the rights and interests of its citizens who live and reside abroad and promotes their ties with their homeland. I would also quote Article 7. The Law on Republic of Croatia's relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia states the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to take measures that encourage the return of Croatian emigrants and the immigration of their descendants to the Republic of Croatia. The provision of this law is in direct contrast and I think that the Republic of Croatia, fiscally, would not lose as much significant resources as it would get if people from the overseas countries returned to the Republic of Croatia with their capital, with their own experience, and in such a way would probably encourage others and even invest in the Republic of Croatia. I'm sorry that for three years we've been fighting over this so as not to accept this provision, that the pension obtained abroad is not considered income and thus solve the problem. The second thing is, there's no explanation in this High House why the untaxable part of the pensioners is 3800, not like the other 2600, for the simple reason that everything... Just one sentence, please. The peace contribution paid in the former state was expensive gross wages, which was paid tax. And that's why that non-taxable part is too much. So, in Croatia we have accepted specialities, and not to our emigrants, and that is why I am sorry and ask Mr. President's vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92211	Please vote on the amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives. The vote is over. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. It voted 33, 1 abstention and 80 votes against. We are going to the amendment of Honored Representative Walter Bolunčić, amendment to Article 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92212	The amendment to Article 4 of the Honored Representative Bolunčić shall be accepted in part. In particular, the Government partially accepts the amendment in its content as submitted on the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Tax Act, i.e. it accepts the part relating to the exemption from taxation of receipts, other than the receipts considered taxable income referred to in Article 5. Income tax law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92213	Thank you very much. An indication of the applicant for the amendment, the esteemed representative of Walter... What, you accept this or you don't accept it? What does the applicant of the amendment say about that? [[Intruder: We accept in part.]] Accepts, amendment withdraws. He accepts. .../Speakers speak at the same time./... Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the part the government accepted. The rest is withdrawn. We have nothing to vote on. The amendment of the respected representative, Nancy Tyrelli, deputy deputy minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92214	Mr. President, we do not accept the amendment of the respected representative, Nancy Tyreli, since we are fundamentally incurring income tax after deduction of salaries simultaneously with the payment of the receipt and this principle except for the Croatian Pension Insurance Office in... and when the tax after deduction is paid by the taxpayer himself is valid for all payers including large systems.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92215	Appreciation of the applicant for the amendment, the esteemed representative of Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92216	Dear Deputy, this is about the receipts from the base of the sale of waste, so since the legal bonds have an obligation to deliver all reports on that basis on the 2nd of the month, I thought it would be a good idea not to burden the entrepreneurs in that part that they must submit such reports every day, and we come to that problem day by day, so paying something that I personally consider to be additionally burdensome to anyone who does so and asking for this amendment to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92217	I ask that we vote on the amendment of the respected representative Nancy Tyrelli, whom the government has not accepted. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. The vote was 36, 3 votes were abstentioned and 75 votes were against it. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law, please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 84 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 32 votes have been passed against the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Tax Act, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92218	We move on to - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 723 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Introduces the draft law by Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92219	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here I will try to explain in the shortest lines the amendments to the law, in fact, the draft bill on amendments and amendments to the VAT law, as a package of this bill. The first thing that changes and is consistent with the directive and what is good to say is that the place of taxation of electronic services, telecommunications services, radio and TV broadcasting services are therefore transferred to residence and to the recipient of services and we count from the perspective of the small countries to which Croatia belongs... because therefore the tax will be taxed where the recipients are. The second amendment, perhaps not so important to us here but I believe the joy of taxpayers is the abolition of the obligation to submit a final calculation of VAT, so-called. The VAT as a form, so in addition to monthly, quarterly accounts, will avoid entrepreneurs being obliged to hand over that final VAT form which was practically control-based and on this side administered, over-administered by entrepreneurs. We're counting on it to be one of the discharges. The most important change is in any case the VAT taxation procedure according to the fees charged, i.e. at the limit of 3 million kuna. Entrepreneurs who make the turnover of up to 3 million kuna will be able to pay the tax, so VAT only according to the charge. There are 138,000 taxpayers in Croatia, of which 120 000 are found in that part of the taxpayers, so almost 90% are here. They will be able, I say, not necessarily not to enter the VAT system and to pay only for the paid realisation, depending on what activity you are in, somewhere you are very paid and many use it to have the deductions of the pre-tax, but I say in this option you will be able to resist and 120,000 entrepreneurs will be able to do so. There's been a lot of discussion about her in public over the last two, three years. In any case, we count that it will help to improve the liquidity of these entrepreneurs on one hand, and on the other hand we expect that we will also have a wine situation because through this, through the proposal of this law we want to strengthen the liability of paying, possibly, those who do not want to meet, so this obligation towards a small entrepreneur who therefore collects, which VAT will pay according to the charged... But I'm saying, through the guaranteeing institution, the taxpayer who made the commitment, which he made to the taxpayer, did not actually pay a certain delivery, and did not pay the VAT calculation within the agreed and prescribed deadline until the day of issue of the bill, will actually be responsible for paying the VAT in the sense of the one in which he did the pretax himself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On this side I say the Tax Administration will have better records of unpaid tax and on this side we believe that the liability of payment in the Republic of Croatia will be significantly improved. There are several more amendments here, suspending the VAT identification number, so on the international market, at international level, a rapid reaction to the tax administration's obligations to identify the number of non-response taxpayers who may have some doubts about their business in the country in which they live, in which the suspended tax number is resident, is then valid for the entire EU. It also harmonizes with the definition of building land and first accommodation. It's crucial about the tax on building land. So, that deadline that we had with 1.1.2015 that the construction land was also entering VAT, in the price of VAT fully entering this law. So we'll either have a real estate tax or we'll have a full VAT. So 5 or 25%. And the last, perhaps not the slightest change, i.e. a kind of Pandora's box that many have hooked up to since we can change VAT rates by changing and supplementing the law. This change changes the rate of VAT on medicines, i.e. We expand the rate, expand the amount of medicines that are at a reduced VAT rate to 5%. So, not only was the law so far predicted to be prescription medications, drugs according to the HZZO list, but all prescriptions are thus extended. On this side, we expect a loss in the budget of 54 million kuna. But we simply had to agree to these things. Probably the biggest complaint and most of your debate will be about these three million kunas and value added taxes according to the paid realisation. We expect a certain shift in charge in this respect especially at the beginning of the application of that rate. But I'm saying, you have to consider a total of 120,000 taxpayers who will be able to resist it. That they could have done that by now, if it had been done by craftsmen who were back in that 120,000. But that the share of all these taxpayers, although it is almost 90% in the VAT structure itself, is today about 8%. Therefore, the future will not all be affected, and given these positive effects that we expect in speeding up the collection process, the positive effects we expect in the business of these entities themselves is the improvement of their liquidity we expect to do better and generally. We do not expect in the medium and long term, so we do not expect a blow to the Croatian budget. Here's a respectable lady and gentlemen, that would be an introduction to this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92220	Replica, Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92221	Thank you very much. You said changes to the joy of the debtors and in that part of the real tax collection for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs is a good thing and proves that if you think a little deeper about doing something good. And I would still like to think again about whether something could be done for the joy of the citizens, and it is about the previous point and the debate. I don't know which way I'm going to keep saying it. Whether you are considering it or whether you have even tried to consider and count that VAT on food is reduced to 10% and that in this way we are processing taxpayers, citizens, all those who are not working, who are therefore paying and who have no salary and who have a large salary. And in the end, even the state budget has no real loss and some domestic production is preserved. I think it would be the law and it would be a change that would really make Croatian citizens happy and would show social sensitivity and a sense of preserving domestic production to the greatest extent possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92222	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92223	Thank you very much. So I'm going to go back to something I've been saying for the past few months because I think this law is extremely important, and that's what I don't think a law like this can be proposed without that provision of the Fiscal Responsibility Act, which is an assessment of fiscal impact. Because I think that no matter how much we support some of the measures we advocated here, unfortunately in Croatia, the problem of indifference is what it is and certain delays will occur in the collection of value added tax. Also, in the case of these telecommunications services and the change in the place of origin, in fact, the obligation to pay VAT will happen to me as well, what you have put here is the assessment of the necessary means to implement the law at least you could still rewrite this amount from the Real Estate Tax Act where you have also concluded that, by amending the VAT Act, 115 million kuna more will be added to the state budget. All I care about is why I picked up the line? I only applied for the replica for one reason, which is why I am afraid that what happened to us when we were practically changing the VAT Act because of our entry into the EU, since the obligation to pay VAT was no longer at the time of import but at the time of sale, and in this way there was a delay in VAT payment. And now it will happen, because you can see that in Croatia it is paid within 30 days then this provision for paying according to the invoice would be of no importance at all. However, it is certain that, given the state of the state budget, those meshetars who have played accounts like this and the way they play the game in this case, I think they should have made an assessment of the fiscal impact and potential risks here, and simply inform parliamentary representatives who are not dealing with this area, but simply that can happen to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92224	Thank you. Igor Radjenovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92225	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Yes, the bogeyman is a bogeyman who's been in Croatia all these years. And if in one area this government has made certain efforts, it is precisely to speed up and pay all obligations and to speed up and solve all the indifference created in the Croatian economy. In addition, the process of passing laws and financial transactions, as well as bankruptcy settlements, etc., etc. I'm looking at Mr. Linic who was the bearer of the good part of the project, and I think all the effort went right to get into some, as you say, Mr. Shucker, in normal situations that everyone pays. And that was the goal of all these bill proposals. It's true, and I think I said in my first or second opening sentence that we've been spinning this topic for a long time. I see that Mr. Domagoj Milosevic is in front of HDZ, HDZ has long said that this option would therefore be put in place as a proposal. We've weighd long and long within the government itself of the past, we've estimated that now is the moment, in fact, that a package of tax reforms that is now in front of you is exactly the moment when we can allow the state budget to transfer it. But you said, "I don't know what expression, "mechanics," "mongers" or something that's gonna use this." Here we have this bonding institution that will actually, where you will be able to complete over VAT, overpaid VAT, which is eventually rejected from the invoice for the goods or services done. If you do not pay for this goods or service through the OPZ, also one of the packages that is not yet in front of you but will come to a new year, we will just copy a form that will oblige entrepreneurs to report on who did not pay them the invoice. And then, you know that well, Mr. Schucker, in the IRS, we'll get to or much easier to get to those entrepreneurs both faster and more efficiently to those entrepreneurs who don't pay VAT. And we'll be able to do it for possibly that unpaid invoice, but also for the bigger bastards and all the other invoices that didn't do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92226	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives Linic, Vuksic and Hodzic, colleagues Slavko Linic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92227	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. The club will support the proposal for the proposed law, and we agree, however, that certain newspapers negotiated at European Community level are being applied to us. Here, above all, is thought of the place of taxation of telecommunications services. We are particularly pleased with the fact that entrepreneurs will be relieved of their work, so they will not have a final VAT tax return. They also satisfy solutions that the Tax Administration will be able to rely on in the discipline of tax collection and also transfer I would say a certain risk to the customer of services or products and that they are some kind of guarantee pay, especially if they use pre-tax as a deductible item. We can also agree to lower VAT rates on medicines. The most important part remains, and this is that from 1.01., the tax collection system will be tied to the collection of income by entrepreneurs up to three million kunas of total income. And we accept that. But we do not agree with the projections of how much these measures will have on the state budget and how the consequences will be for these amendments to the legal rules. The estimates that the greater efficiency of the Tax Administration will be because it will be able to control the customer's results seem to me to be not talking about the important thing, which is that we have laws that are not effective in controlling these laws. Then I'm undermining the Financial Business Act again. He specifically says what payment deadlines are. It's the Ministry of Finance's jurisdiction to control the efficiency of the collection. And we control and what have we found? The big ones don't pay for local self-government units, the big ones don't pay for big trading chains. The large ones are not paid by the companies that are in the blockades. Yeah, that's data from the Ministry of Finance that says I'm a law that's pretty rigorous punishment, criminal sanctions he's got. It is clear that the ministry is what it controls we are not able to implement to the end. It's just a sign that we won't be able to get through this either. Why won't we go all the way? Well, first of all, two basic systems that could solve it, and that's bankruptcy or pre-fashion settlements don't work, they don't work. In the pre-demand settlement, slowly the interest of the creditors in the deal fell and the bankruptcys continued slowly. Well, I'd like to say in this law you've given us data from over 5,000 failed pre-war deals, over five thousand, five hundred. How many bankruptcys are open, how many bankruptcys are open? And I'd almost give my hand 100 or 100. So, explicitly, the law says if it fails, there's no way out, no bankruptcy. Are the bankruptcys open? No, they're not. So, do we enforce laws that provide us with that liquidity, do we not implement it, do we not implement it? And explicitly everything says how to do it. Well, that's why, if you remember, we came from 45 to 34 and it seems to me now we're slowly climbing up. We just discussed the income tax law. The finance ministry's data suggests that the large indifference caused by the units of local self-government. They don't pay entrepreneurs to edit schools, kindergartens, playgrounds, utility facilities, etc. Now we've determined that the burdens of 2 billion and 200 will be transferred to them is what we say a billion and eight hundred, I guess, because 300 million incomes from interest taxes that don't go to local self-government units. Therefore, we are again strengthening the indifference of local self-government units that are using the most of the small businesses on their field for these small investments, procedures, regular maintenance however you like. Thus, existing laws say that we do not see the possibility of significant improvement in liquidity. To make laws very difficult, we spend our lives in order to really resolve indifference. And what I very clearly want to say on behalf of the Justice Club until it changes significantly we have no change, we have no change in the payment discipline system. Without justice, it's just not possible. All solutions are ad hoc to the efficiency of the judiciary. And when we have such situations when many years of demand, they've been running disputes for ten years, then the question is how the tax and the buyer who is the payer will charge something when he probably didn't get paid, too. And there's where I'd say projections that we should have given far more seriously. And why this is important, so I guess we realize that Croatia is fighting an excessive deficit, Croatia has given programmes to lower its deficit in 3 years below 3%. We just saw 2 billion 200 million or a net billion and 800 shares our incomes when we look at the country's total past law. We're saying here that we're going to lose that 50 million if we add that on real estate in the state budget we're going to make money then it's not that, but we're assessing that it's impossible to write that you can hardly assess what it means not to move the bill on the real estate and that we don't realize that the liquidity is far from being able to say that we've solved it and that we're increasing it by all these laws. And that's why we're afraid that a good measure that goes to entrepreneurs, because because we admit, I'd say this is a confession to say that no laws have been able to solve the payment problem, we failed. And now that burden is right to take over, that's fine, and we're discharging over 100,000 entrepreneurs. A measure of praise because we admit we failed to resolve the problem of indifference with our laws. But we're wondering what to do with the deficit, wondering what to do with the deficit? This year we failed to achieve the battle programme against the excessive deficit, we did not and the programme and the budget fell if we failed to achieve it. One problem is under-income on tax categories, especially value added tax, and I'm afraid these laws are reducing our tax revenues ourselves and at the same time we see how difficult it is to cut expenditure. It's just an assessment that after these laws when we haven't realistically assessed revenues we simply don't believe in the reality of the state budget that will probably be in the debate next week. The projection of income compared to existing laws is probably not real. And the biggest problem will be a major deficit, it will simply be irresponsible behaviour towards its documents that we have also attached to the EU, but also to ourselves and will be the biggest problem of new responsibilities, new responsibilities, new responsibilities that may be bigger than this year. And then we need to understand that if the financial market in the world is improved, that means more interest, and that means far more problems. And the security of underlying liabilities from the budget, which is the payment of pensions, the maintenance of the social and health systems and the likely salaries of the public and state sectors. So we estimate that it would be far better if we were to evaluate it more correctly and that we have a series of data here in reason, indeed in liquidity, and then we estimate that the burden of this law will still be far, far greater for the state budget. Especially since we have over 100,000 entrepreneurs who will certainly use this opportunity to pay taxes at a fee. I repeat, we accept the proposal, we support it, but we evaluate the wrong projection and we estimate that far, far greater negative impact will be the law on the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92228	Domagoj Milosevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92229	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Linic, therefore, you mentioned that the key problem of indivisibility is the failure of the judiciary to function. I don't think that's the case. I think you'll agree that the key problem, or the reason for the indifference, is actually six years behind the economic downturn, the lack of economic growth. As a result, we have everything that is negative and that affects this indifference directly, on the one hand the fall in the purchasing power of citizens, the fall in citizens' property, the fall in company assets, the simultaneous over-indebtedness of citizens, the lack of investment, the growth of unemployment, all of this simply brings Croatia into this situation, and the consequence of all this is, of course, negative and the state budget itself. And there is no other philosophy of great, but simply all the efforts of each government should be focused on how to help, above all on the private sector to achieve economic growth, another on which we have now had the opportunity to actually listen all day long, and that is the disorganization of the general public administration. Today's debate all morning actually proves how disorganized we are, that at the end of November we are actually discussing such important laws, that we do not know who drinks, who pays, who has what budget next year, I suppose we are in Germany to discuss this topic in 2018, not 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92230	Slavko Linic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92231	In part, I agree with my colleague that economic growth is a problem, but indifference is not directly related to economic growth. Insolvency in the Republic of Croatia is related to total investment failures. First of all, the state that was spending irrationally in halls, I don't know, buildings that shouldn't have, the state that even invested huge money in infrastructure that didn't use enough, but we want to talk about the private sector. All of his profits, all of his banking charges were spent in real estate business. So, not in manufacturing, not in strengthening exports. And now it's all gone down, it's all down, and the price has fallen, and the possibility of selling all that, and that's why nobody's solvable and liquid. And that needs to be solved, and obviously we haven't been able to solve it for two years. So let's be honest, tomorrow let's start economic development and development, which with those companies that have completely missed with the investment of money, and I can't get that money back, they need to wipe it out, they need to settle their debts. Therefore, indifference in the Republic of Croatia is due to the wrong investment from the state, the complete incompetence of companies operating energy, infrastructure, etc. to the private sector that invested wrongly. We need to deal with this, and it can be solved by additional measures. We're also going with pre-determined, but unfortunately with... bankruptcy proceedings. And then we'll have new companies with no loads and a clean balance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92232	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92233	Dear counterpart Linic, of course one of the problems of this law is projections, in fact, what consequences or effects will this law receive on the budget. It's absolutely certain that there will be effects that will jump.... However, this law has also been confirmed, and that is what Mr Shucker used to say, that the rule of law, we have admitted that the rise of the rule of law, that in time it is paid, we would not talk about it today. We have some kind of non-payment or culture of non-payment, before the inauguration. So we said, let's turn the other way now, someone has said before that the bad guys will manage and they'll try and try and do it like this before they've cut the state down, they're going to try and cut the country down now. It's not good when the House of Law admits that it's powerless and the state is not well, and the government when it admits it's powerless, there's something wrong. There are sanctions, there's how other states handled it. So, what we're gonna do if this doesn't work out, how far we're willing to go in some sort of, under quotes, giving in. Disputes last, you said, for 10 years, but that's what we say from day to day, especially when it comes to the judiciary on the agenda. And what happened? Nothing. There's not even a report from the Supreme Court President who I hear won't give a report on when the judiciary will finally work, not to wait for the verdict for 10 years. How can you do business if you've waited 10 years for convictions?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92234	Slavko Linic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92235	There I want to be very critical that still the reform of the judiciary is very important and that one of the major problems is trade courts, commercial courts which are essentially formed just to ensure that every believer has speed, quality because they are specialized courts and instead we have only about pre-departure deals in the last year and a few days 5 thousand 500 cases for a quick bankruptcy, do not need a previous procedure, do not need this, do not need what, simply the creditors have said no exits. It's not even open 100 objects. Now I wonder, and when will we open? Five thousand 500 subjects need to be deleted. We want to talk further, just before we talked about individuals buying houses, land and forming a company. Imagine the judiciary allowing the company to register. They don't even take an accountant, so the accountant can run accounting, to pay the guy who formed the firm at least the accountant, pay taxes, VAT and at least file some final accounts, but the IRS wiped out nearly 20,000 phantom companies we didn't even run for, and now we have a problem. erasing the company other houses, the houses are used or paid taxes or nothing. So I'm asking you, are we aware of the wealth we have without taking taxes because we don't have legal solutions. It's all a job of the judiciary that needs to find such solutions. We can't allow this kind of behavior. And as soon as we finish reforming the judiciary, I believe we'll improve the indifference.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92236	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92237	Thank you very much. Well, you've only raised one part of the question, but the biggest problem is that we all here often pass laws and stare at everything we all know is that and we think that by amending the law we're going to fix what wasn't before and that's mistakes. There's just a bunch, a bunch, a bunch. I remember when we passed the OIB Act, then we wanted to make order in the Trade Court, among other things. Why? So because five of them founded a company, one of them was seen, four of them were not seen at all. But only when we forced them to register through the OIB is it seen how these companies are connected. Why? Because companies were opening up, new ones were making commitments, and ultimately we have this HBOR analysis. What is missing in the Croatian economy at the moment is crafts, low capitalisation and inability to be in charge. And that automatically leads to one great indifference. And now we're staring here. So we've been saying in HDZ for a long time that we need this 3 million, that's something that's not controversial because if someone comes into a problem that the state or someone hasn't paid him is not fair, but the key problem of this is the indifference and modernization of non-payment, it's the key problem of non-payment. Because if it's obvious that I delivered the goods to you, that you received the goods, and if the dispute lasts for 7.8 or 10 years then it's a defeat of all laws, we can invent whatever we want. And that's why we can because of the state budget situation and because of all of these facts that we know more than anyone else well about, and tomorrow someone can also be prosecuted legally for that, it was simply necessary to predict potential losses to the state budget. And you'll see colleagues and colleagues next year that he won't be at all small. And I'm afraid that the IRS would like this to be heard by the Deputy Minister, that the IRS puts too much burden on the back. Does he have the capacity to do everything he does? Tax administration can't run the bookkeeping of entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92238	Thank you. Slavko Linic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92239	I was convinced that the Financial Business Act with huge powers in the administrative process would still result in greater results. But as we can see, there's no cleaning up failed companies if the judiciary hasn't yet done part two of the powers under that law. And so I agree that we should make it easier for entrepreneurs, it has no doubt, and as much as I was always against at first because I felt that other laws should solve it, if we solve indifference, we don't have to worry about whether it's paid 5 or 6 days earlier. Now we see with this proposal that we will still ease the impact on entrepreneurs because of the failure of the state and it is not right to be on their burden. But I don't think at all I want to say the number I estimate will happen, but it's easy to make 1 billion less income. Make it half that much. This is the problem of strengthening deficits, it is a problem that, with no savings, we will not be able to ease the deficit because of this legal solution, let us simply be honest or the judiciary has not implemented reform, we do not have the efficiency of the courts, and on the other hand, what in the administrative process can not, according to the law on financial operations, have not taken steps towards local self-government units or companies, especially traders who do not pay on time and threaten the food sector, the best organised industry, food industry. They are now at risk and will not be able to turn to export if they are threatened by Croatian trade. And that's why I think the judiciary didn't do their job. There'll be a minus.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92240	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92241	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'm sorry I didn't hear Mr. Cain's argument on the agenda but there's no afternoon, so maybe he'd learn something since he's a universal speaker. I am not an economist and I listen to debates like the esteemed Mr Linic and Shuker and I learn from them in fact, but with common sense I can say something about this legislative proposal on amendments and additions to the law on value added tax as well as that law that was just earlier on the agenda, which is the proposal for a tax on income. How I realized and how I felt, and here they confirm here and the speakers before me that it would actually be one, and one and the other law would bring a minus on the revenue side in the state budget, and we have a minus with these old laws on the income side. So how are we going to reduce the budget deficit with these minuses? I think the only thing that remains is the further cutting on the spending side, but as far as I can see in yesterday's minister's presentation it's about 500 million of everything together, although I think that there would be sharper and more thinking that in every ministry, not talking about agencies and others, there's room for additional cutting because I'm saying, I'm thinking that even when I know, I have all the knowledge of spending, of material expenditure, I'm not going to talk about what the prime minister was talking about where he should be cutting, he says at lunches, etc., that there's places to cut the material expenditures right there in that part of the spending. That Mr. Lalovec, who is not here to say that he stayed with himself and with the items of the budget he had in front of him, without the influence of the competent minister in each ministry, could draw the expense side much better, cut more than he cut here. But unfortunately, it seems to me that each of the ministers defends their position, each one has his own desires, each one has his own needs, and that when cutting the spending party we don't touch what we said we wouldn't touch. These are pensions and what school, health care, etc. needs. What about this law? So, the ease of changing VAT laws in such a way as to shorten, so the Value Added Tax Act is simply a recognition of the impotence of the rule of law in culture, or as Shucker said in the modernization of non-payment. And now we're changing this VAT law and we recognize that actually the state, the IRS, the legal structures have no simple control, no instruments, tools to introduce financial discipline and reduce, I'm not saying that it's a prerequisite, but to reduce the indifference that exists in the Republic of Croatia. Someone was talking here about 30 days of payment, so actually this law says it wouldn't be necessary. This is how we let the IRS actually run some kind of bookkeeping control that paid the craftsman to tip off the hello, he didn't pay me, so that they're after him and they're after him. It is good to free the craftsmen, small entrepreneurs up to 3 million kunas of total turnover, payments, or to lower them in a position to pay only what is realized. But this will lead to a postponement in the budget or a reduction in the charge of the state budget I say on this revenue side. 120,000 small entrepreneurs, the craftsman will certainly enjoy saying in some ways this relief of 138, 140 thousand as many as there are. The VAT that we were talking about here today in certain replicas, which is VAT on the food we talked about. We have VAT on beer, far different from VAT on wine. We know how this works and that it actually happens to me that it's a favor to this kind of thing that you can also see by sponsorships, donations and all of this and the development and branching of this industry almost every village in the country and many factories. Look at the commercials on any of the TVs, which commercials occupy the most space on both commercial and public televisions, mainly ahead of sports events or so on. You'll get it all figured out. How? Well, there's money. So the food tax that I started talking about would really help, that reducing that tax would help Croatian agriculture, the Croatian processing industry, and I believe that given the quality of Croatian products, it would certainly increase the purchase of Croatian agricultural products. This would most likely reduce imports and increase production and help domestic production, domestic processing and agricultural industries. Unfortunately, these measures in this amendment to the law as well as what we said and in that Income Tax Act. Generally, it would be good if in Croatia there was one consciousness or conscience of those who are obliged to pay their obligations, if they were to learn from one saying, and it was written almost in every inn or shop in the old days, says honor to everyone, religions to anyone. That is exactly how it would work if we could apply it and if the consciousness and conscience of Croatian entrepreneurs or call an entrepreneur or craftsman would be worth it in this sense that it is paid within 30 days and that in fact there are rules and there is a normal way of paying is unimaginable in the EU, in countries like Germany, Austria, etc. That someone doesn't pay someone more than 60 days if the law is up to 60 days. We owe HZO two years, three years. Here we heard yesterday that all major drugs will be settled until 1.1.2017. So watch 2015, then 2016, and they're already two years in debt. So two more years, four years won't be paid. And now he says we have a VAT rate on drugs 5% for both prescriptions and prescriptions. I don't know what that means. That's 54 million kuna less in the state budget, and that's all I know is that it means a reduction, so the revenue side of the state budget. Whether I'm for it or not, it's hard for me to tell because I don't know what the ultimate effects are and whether it will lead to the honor of every religion to anyone. Oh, my God! So I think the HDSSB club will be restrained on this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92242	Thank you. We have one replica, Domagoj Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92243	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear fellow Grubisic, it seems to me that for a country like ours, we are crossing 250 billion public debt and deficits at least according to European standards this year, one 20 billion kuna support in terms of payment or payment for VAT for those at least on the market, so small entrepreneurs and craftsmen should not be a problem. I think that was cynical. And what's not cynicalally said, which is everyone in this assembly, our entire society has been talking for years about hiring people. So who's gonna hire people? Is anyone wondering who would hire people in Croatia at last? I've been speaking here for several times the last two, three years my friends entrepreneurs or good acquaintance entrepreneurs have been moving from Croatia. I don't know if anyone's worth it. I won't name them. But some of the government can make contact with them to hear why, why do people move out of their own country in the '40s? When an entrepreneur, I assure you, is moving out of his own country, then he moves out of despair and starts over again, whether he had money or not. Namely, everywhere in the world to be an entrepreneur you have to have some network, some network of acquaintances, contacts, buyers, suppliers. I don't know, does anyone wonder why someone would hire people on the brink of destruction in Croatia today? In order for foreigners to come I suppose they should believe that, above all, Croats in their own country and their own economy. Somehow, it seems to me that we will have to decide on that word, the hateful words of capitalism or the euphemism market economy if we want to go into capitalism to play by the rules. We have now entered the EU or we really want to deal with self-government socialism. I have to tell you here on both sides of the assembly and on this side of mine, we also have a few times confused wondering where we actually want to go as a society. I assure you that only when we have become a full member of the EU today is there only one goal, there is only one way and Croatia can achieve that path. But on that road private entrepreneurs, craftsmen are necessary and welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92244	Thank you. Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92245	Thank you very much, fellow Milosevic. I received data from the Slavonski Brod Association a few months ago, which provided accurate data on how many craftsmen there were in Slavonski Brod and how many craftsmen and crafts were reduced in Slavonski Brod back three years and back in 2012, 2013. I still don't have the data for this year, but that number keeps getting smaller. I don't know exactly maybe you're better directed, whether they're going abroad or simply closing their turns and I don't know where they're going, actually. But it is constant that the growing number of craftsmen and craftsmen is both in Slavonski Brod and in the Republic of Croatia. Let's look at the center of the city of Zagreb, Zvonimir Street, and count the places that exist on Zvonimir Street. So, it's the centre, the heart of Zagreb, how many empty places there are in the city centre of Zagreb, which is, therefore, one city that has 120% of the EU's GDP. So, a city where something is going on, something is going on, which is to say the most economically strong in the Republic of Croatia, so we have this situation. Now imagine the situation with us in Brod, County, Požega, etc. It's a disaster, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92246	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, the esteemed Walter Boljunčić will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92247	Thank you. Good evening, everyone! Well, here's to the VAT Act, we've heard a lot of debates about not repeating what's said to have their positive and negative things. I might pay attention to two facts. One is related to what I said in income tax, and it is related to the financing of the local community relating to real estate tax, which is the payment of VAT on land. So far, land has been paid, especially in the first real estate where there has been no sales tax of about 5% and was shared between the state and the local community, VAT would be paid on construction land if a building permit was issued or at the first purchase would not have been released from these 5% of real estate taxes. The proposal says it would damage the local community by around 70 million kuna. However, that was likely before it was said to increase from 60 to 80. However, the fact remains, so in fact, VAT will now be paid both on land and on what was an incentive to buy the first real estate. That's pretty bad, especially the amount of apartments that were built, not sold, and I don't think that's really moving in the right direction. So I don't see any reason why you wouldn't pay real estate tax as well as free yourself from paying that tax that I once again say is 5%, not 25% as VAT. I'm talking about the price of land. So that's one thing I think you should see because in a situation where prices fall and we have a surplus of unsold to increase the price is not exactly some situation that will help solve the problem. And the second is, I also filed the amendment, maybe it's a day before the benches, namely we see in the VAT that we have a whole series of things that are free of VAT payments, which are paid 5, 13 or 25%. Unfortunately, as far as I could see on the scientific equipment that was purchased using therefore scientific projects obtained by, say, the Croatian Science Foundation before the Ministry of Science through the project or from projects obtained via the EU Horizon 20/20 or some other, and we can now extend that to contracts of software concluded by the Ministry of Science with public institutions and universities is paid a 25% tax. I don't understand why a 5% tax would be paid to newspapers or anything else, and to scientific equipment 25%, especially if the amount for the project is limited. This means that the money you paid for the VAT for the equipment reduces the part that you can use, say, to take some young scientist as a scientific recruit or next. In that sense, I propose an amendment if there is no freedom to pay taxes on scientific equipment, I am talking about equipment purchased through scientific projects either from the Republic of Croatia's budget or from EU funds and programmes to at least then place the lowest VAT rate of 5%. For computers and so on, it probably doesn't matter that much, but it is very important for equipment in natural sciences where sometimes a device is needed for physicists or the Ruđer Boskovic Institute, it can mark in millions of euros the amount paid with or without VAT. We have this year brought a strategy for development of science, education and technology. We had income tax, which clearly states that because from 12% to 6% the decentralised state funds will make it even more difficult not to spend more than a minimum on education. I mean, it's a really inappropriate situation. And now we've had it already once, hopefully this time you'll be considered, there's a income tax on scholarships, and here it's about paying on scientific equipment. So I would ask the minister and the deputy if they heard what I was talking about to see the possibility, I gave the amendment to pay a 5% tax on scientific equipment, not 25%. It's a little money that means a lot to scientists. We in this year have forecasts that science will decrease by 215 million kuna. Two weeks ago, we adopted a science strategy where it says that the funds should remain at least at the same level. I think it's one fact that's amazing at what a 5% tax is given, we can write 25,000 words on each of the equipment, so we treat it like a newspaper, so let's make it 5%. If this is one way to avoid it, not avoid it, but simply spend that money on other things intended for a scientific project. And this real estate tax. I think it's going in the opposite direction of wanting to come back to the growth of the real estate market. And besides, it's at the expense of the local community. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92248	Thank you. We're continuing to discuss clubs. On behalf of the DC Club, New Wave, Reformists Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92249	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary with the Deputy and Associates, Here's to changing the intonation a little bit today, at the previous agenda point there's been a lot of criticism, a lot of suggestions, observation. On behalf of the DC Club, the New Wave and the People's Party of Reformists, we consider this law a positive measure, primarily for two reasons. And this is a simplification of the application, i.e. the administration's management regarding VAT and the annual application, and the other is even more important that 3 million kunas of famous laws, which allows entrepreneurs to pay VAT for paid traffic, and not that, with one practice that has been in force so far, and which I, as a former craftsman, would consider insanely drowning one by one as kittens. And thank God for finding a government that has gained strength and wisdom to make such a decision. Therefore, we welcome that decision. We believe that it will help and contribute at least one part to the fact that these entrepreneurs who remain alive today remain on their feet, and perhaps also contribute to at least repairing the general climate in business in the Republic of Croatia. But when we talk about VAT, then there is, of course, indifference again, a culture of non-payment and some other terms in this parliamentary debate. And of course everyone talks about it but no one will tell the truth until the end because there are names that are not grateful to mention in Croatian politics, there are institutions that are not grateful and subjects that are very large and which are not grateful to mention in Croatian politics and which are indifference generators. So also former minister, counterpart Slavko Linic spoke about the need for non-payment control. In these three years, I have mentioned the problem on several occasions, especially in the context of non-payment in the agriculture sector, agricultural producers and for a year at a time, which of course generated indifference. Because when a man for delivered goods, crops, agricultural products doesn't get his money for 6 months, after 9 months his money is quite clear that he can't pay in time for the invoice to be delivered to him, he provides a service for agricultural products, etc., etc. The second indifference generator of course was, always appeared more or less prominently by the state itself and when we find the strength to principle state pays its invoices under a, and sub b when we are ready to go to control all types of business of the most large entities then we will be able to discuss it relevantly in this house. Those political courages, ladies and gentlemen, have been gone so far. It was a courage to enter a craftsman in a shop or a cafe and unlike 5 kuna seal a place, to charge him a fine that is extremely large and respectable compared to his total traffic but never in this country's life in that part of life which testifies to a modern, modern democratic Croatian rule of law I have never seen yellow ribbons on large centres. The law exists, and if someone wants to convince me that putting a total on the cash registers of the big centres, every cash register would be in a row if someone really wanted to convince me, then my intellect. The message to the Ministry of Finance is not Croatia's Orwell farm where some are equal and others are more equal than others. You shouldn't at least be, and what's essentially what brought us here so far is what brought us here today. What would everybody be up to with the kid, and when it's big, then the head turns really fast, and at that speed, sometimes the neck vertebrae goes away. Another thing also concerns today's debate on the general, social and economic situation in the country, and what we will bring to the full is that we want to help our citizens. Then we pass a law in which we will hypothetically raise the poorest ones who are in all need potentially hypothetically to those in the public sector that in the real sector we will hypothetically raise their net income by 100 kuna, 150 kuna, 200 kuna and in VAT we have the perfect instrument to be fair, to introduce criteria into the economy of the Republic of Croatia and to help those who need what is most necessary, what is essential and essential in their lives. Example of value added tax in fish-meditated countries. Spain, Portugal, Italy from 7 to 10%, Croatia 25%. Di's competitiveness is gone, she's gone, gentlemen, Mr. Minister is gone. We cannot talk about creating business, favourable business conditions when we are not ready to create competitive instruments in tax policy. Agricultural products in Italy are basic 6%, with us which rate for some yes for some. Very interesting, certain foods, some food products are freed other nots. This way, using a debate on VAT law on behalf of the National Party of Reformists, I propose to the Ministry to consider reducing VAT to basic food products all. So by reducing the food prices to the best, the most direct, and the safest, most certainly help the poorest not to do these pre-tumbations, we turn from hollow to empty, cut the budgets to local self-government units, create great wonders and we have such simple mechanisms to help citizens and create more favourable conditions of business and competitiveness for domestic goods producers, especially in the food industry or agriculture sector. Our options are completely open. In particular, on behalf of fellow fishermen who, at the last meetings of the fishermen, have absorbed it as their proposal, and the request, the request of the Croatian government to make them competitors because the imports on the domestic market kill them more and more year after year and only the exports of tuna to Japan still hold us in positive position as the only part of agriculture that is positive and on their behalf I ask the minister to consider the variation of the price of fresh fish, i.e. the VAT on fresh fish at least to the level of VAT that the hosts have. It's absurd that the caterers have 13% and the fisherman pays 15%. That ladies and gentlemen is nowhere to be found. You can look at me and you don't have to look at me and listen to Mr. Minister but it's nowhere, it's out of raids and it's no argument. This suggests that there is no concept of criteria and strategies in the conduct of tax policy as a basis for the Croatian economy. We wander around like a little girl dancing ballerina, that game tap, tap, tap, tap we jump from field to field, jump ladies and gentlemen from field to field. I appeal that the affairs of this issue be taken seriously, that we start dealing with tax policy seriously. We cannot be demagogues, ask the economy, industry, and production to be competitive, and we also place a 25% VAT burden on those products on the common European market, in a joint game on our market that the countries closest to the environment are double and multiple times lower in charge. With mathematics you can't argue, it's... and a policy that ignores mathematics is in a very serious problem. So, we will welcome this law that corrects one major injustice, in the entrepreneurship sector for small and medium-sized enterprises and craftsmen, by having the strength as a government and you as a ministry to bring this measure, finally, but we are opening up the issue, the VAT rate, the VAT account, the determination of VAT amount for individual products in the Republic of Croatia, for individual producers and sectors because we hold that they cannot be competitive in a situation where they have a double tax burden on additional value compared to competitors from neighbouring countries and the environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92250	Thank you. We have one replica, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92251	Dear colleague Maranovic, in your discussion and you spoke about the lack of payment culture, so you mentioned that it is not wise to speak here about the names of the powerful, those who do not pay. And they don't pay, before said Mr. Linic, we've said that at least 20 times in the debates, big trade chains, powerful men, and those powers protect exactly the state. And what's he doing that for? Because they're often above the state. I've already spoken, many decisions are made in the basements and after those decisions are made here laws. You know what big sales chains do to manufacturers, when manufacturers insist on legal payment? First they put them on top of the shelf where they can't be seen so they put them under the shelf, on the very bottom. When they insist again, they get kicked out of the store. You have that, all domestic producers, ask them, they'll all tell you that. I don't know if you've seen the contracts they sign, they're slave contracts. You know, Mr. Milosevic, you used to say that we should finally introduce real capitalism, that's what the foreign chains in Croatia have introduced, we're here for them... the state, the banana state, they've introduced it to us. A state that allows, which doesn't force them out, to behave as they do in their own countries. And then what are those trade chains doing? They're making their own brand. And those producers have to work for them, at what cost? And what's the state doing? It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. That's why I said, I repeat, we'll be conscious of the name, the coat of arms and the flag we give.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92252	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92253	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Vuksic, anyone who understands things elementally is aware that from Croatian sovereignty remains a declaration of sovereignty, but therefore we cannot blame these people who are now sitting, but we can blame the entire Croatian politics in the last 20 and a few years. As for military sovereignty, we voted democratically through decisions for very practical reasons, because now we are in such a situation and the environment to be an integral part of NATO's alliance, we have no energy sovereignty, no food sovereignty, you can smile at the expression, but to close the Croatian borders now for 15 days, you would start to starve. In a country that has the potential to produce food for at least 10 million people, perhaps more. We also don't have financial sovereignty because what few domestic banks have the potential so that we couldn't discredit all of us to buy new cars, here as many of us as we are tonight, there's very little of us. We gave everything else to strangers, and as far as the big, small, medium-sized ones are concerned, I mentioned it from my principled belief that a state that is not a legal state and which observes things not equally, but..., cannot get out in a good way, what we expect the Croatian state institution to be equal to the poor one on the road and the richest and most powerful entrepreneur in this country. That all equally correspond to Croatian laws, and that has not been the case so far, I say responsibly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92254	Thank you. We continue the debate on behalf of the clubs, so on behalf of HDZ, the respected Domagoj Milosevic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92255	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers, deputy with a co-worker. Well, first of all, I have to welcome and support most of this law, in any case, first of all, what's most discussed today, and it's actually finally supporting small entrepreneurs and craftsmen because, I'm sure you're aware, maybe not everyone in this assembly, how important it is for the whole economy. So after 6 years of crisis, they are the most affected by everything that happened in the Croatian economy. At the same time, they may also be the largest pool of those in the Croatian economy who could hire, those large and medium... in any case they will hardly bring out new employment. They are the ones who are most heavily in debt with Croatian banks, so they really need help from that side and regardless of the potential problem of billions or two kunas for the state which is still public debt somewhere on 250 billion kuna, I am sure it will return multiplely, I hope in the next year to the Croatian economy and also to the Croatian budget. So around that, I don't think anyone in this assembly should have any dilemmas about supporting this measure of yours, and once again, as I said, congratulations. I'm sorry not to see my colleague Linic here now who also supported it, although, and here he is, although it seems to me a year ago or somewhat shorter in the conflict with Minister Maras about this same, but anyway, it's important that this was resolved in the end, I think it was necessary. I'd just like to draw your attention in one section, and that's what the Deputy Minister mentioned today, so the responsibility of those who will use the tax, so on and so on. when we're talking about pre-taxes. And I'm going to quote here from the text of this law, that is, the opening section says, "Therefore, the objective of this provision is to declare the person responsible for the payment of VAT which used the right to pre-tax, and at the same time the account containing the VAT bill did not pay the supplier" and now that I don't want to read further, I hope that this applies to public companies, city firms and all others. Somehow I have the impression that too often in us there is a difference between something that is public or state and private, I think that, in fact, the responsibility of those who work in the public sector or public business must be even greater in order to introduce some more standards among all those who operate in Croatia. So I think we should always start by ourselves so what's ready to apply to ourselves as a rule, and that's in this case state, then we can only expect from everyone else who participates in the economy. What is not good at all, I understand the background of VAT problems in building or building land, however, whenever and whenever negotiated with Burxelles circumstances change and there must be ways to do something. I hope you're aware that the introduction of 25% VAT on construction land is the last nail in the coffin. Do I have to agree with my colleague Linic? Yeah, well, it's been really wrong to invest in completely different circumstances. Is that what our co-responsibility is about when we talk about investments first and foremost in construction and high-building, there is a state, yes. So your entrepreneurs function logically where the best profit in this direction happens regularly and the biggest investments. For this reason, however, there is a government administration in every country that directs the national economy and prevents balloons from forming. In this regard, I must tell you from personal experience, I have a bad experience, so I am among the team that misinvested in 2006. ... I'm paying the bill today, but we didn't have such a big balloon. There are many countries in the EU that have had much larger so-called. a real-estate balloon, but it just needs to be fought. And there are ways and there are solutions to how this should be fought, but this solution today that we simply cannot accept as imposed. So whether through some reduced rate between VAT rates in any other way is simply that I think at this point at least as far as the high-building end is concerned by one year, two, three days of the whole construction sector, that means new thousands of people on the road of the unemployed, that means a whole series of further problems, that means, in the end, a problem for these same small entrepreneurs, craftsmen who are very often connected to the construction sector, and most often they have been paying an account in the past 4.5 years of this economic crisis, first of all, when we are speaking now in this case in the building. And let me just have a few more sentences, and that is why when we are talking about this situation in which the economy is located and if we really want to help small entrepreneurs in the medium and long term, craftsmen as well as all entrepreneurs, all the employees in the economy, and consequently in this way and in the public sector, do we know that at the end of the day, the public sector and the potential for growth of wages and everything else or vice versa that no one loves depends primarily on the national economy. I think we should generally work on tax cuts and tax burdens, simply hard and often we compare and love each other and compare in this assembly with highly developed European countries. It's great, it should be ambitious but they probably went from 10 to 30 thousand euros per capita. Unfortunately, you can't skip that path. We would all like to have laws to change the national economy and if, with 10,000 in three steps, it could reach 30,000 euros per capita, however, this will not happen. In fact, as we know in recent years, the exact opposite direction has been going on. With this in mind, I think a reform of the public administration is necessary, we are all talking about it, but no one is seriously doing anything about it. The third point is and has already been discussed in replicas today, which is simply the support of the private sector. We have to decide what's causing the consequences, it just won't go on like this. I've been in politics for four years, and I'm often upset about how misunderstanding is or how prejudice is and how much prejudice is in this assembly towards the private sector. Is there like any social group of thieves and con men? Yes, there is, so normal. In every social group, no matter what he's dealing with, there are frauds and others. But because of that, it can't judge 99% of the honest ones and those who are stuck in the problem. So it's not the ones who are all in trouble because of that, the thieves and the criminals. After 6, 7 years of crisis I assure you now not only in the construction sector generally much richer societies and states with a centuries-old tradition of market economy would have serious problems as we do today. So there's just going to have to be a lot of changes. And I'm gonna take advantage of whether the minister has to leave, but I keep talking about it, and now I'm gonna say when I'm talking about this private sector, and I'm calling it the same companies all the time, and I'm not saying it here as a populist or a demagogue, but I have to say, so companies like Dioki, Gredela now, last before the Immunological Bureau of State has to save. So to save those jobs, those knowledge, the technologies that exist there. I could talk to you here for half an hour, I have an hour of personal experience with the Immunological Institute. The Immunological Institute is a company that has an export potential of over a billion kuna a year, today it is under bankruptcy. Someone's responsible. Of course, on the one hand, the administration, first of all, but on the other hand, the owner. It's obvious the owner wasn't worried about that. Why? Well, because it's probably not the task of the state, so it certainly isn't. I am now not advocating any state of Gredel, but that the state has a responsibility to save Gredel as an entire industrial sector not only as a single company. So if Gredel disappears irrevocably let's not get carried away so soon in the next 10, 20 years some foreign investor will come and run it from scratch. So it's simply possible and they have to be saved by such companies. And finally, it is necessary to start a new investment cycle, for this there is space, there are stakeholders, and there are European funds for that. We know where we are right now with the European funds and how low we are with this exploitation of European funds, but there is a huge space that can help directly and those medium, small entrepreneurs to whom we all call so much together today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92256	Thank you. We have two replicas, first respected Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92257	About the thinking I had a year ago whether it should make it easier for entrepreneurs. Yeah, we fought to keep the craftsmen with reliefs that we didn't even extend for the simple reason because it was always the problem of VAT-based income levels. And most of all, I was convinced that we were able to implement the Financial Business Act and they were quite well-running. Now we see that the interest has fallen tremendously, there is no more will for the believers to settle. Why? Well, the state isn't showing it enough, the state is criminalizing it. Because if the Prime Minister says they're criminal acts, then who's going to be more involved in it? So that's one of those problems why. And on the other hand, what are the results of the judiciary? The judiciary was supposed to clean up all those companies that didn't pass the pre-demand deal, in a year everything had to be cleaned up and then we'd have all the property and real estate and I'd say certain revenues of those fallen companies... were in the function of paying for the protection of creditors. And then today we would say differently whether or not this measure is necessary. So, after a year we can say we weren't successful and that's why I consider the burden to be in the state then. Yeah, there'll be fewer incomes and we need to help the economy. I changed that because obviously unlike my former thinking that the judiciary was ineffective, that the administration would be more efficient, we didn't succeed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92258	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92259	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I respect that, and okay, I accept that it's logical that we've all been learning and changing our attitudes our whole lives. I'll just say a few sentences about the prenuptials. In some ways, these are small entrepreneurs and craftsmen today. There was and then the debate was on this topic, and I personally suggested on one of the committees, you weren't personally then, so that if you wanted to, and the logic was, and at the very beginning, HDZ supported the Act on Pre-departure settlement, so that it was necessary to protect these small entrepreneurs and craftsmen again. What happened? It has occurred that many have fallen into existence because, of course, 50% of the claims are written down for a large company or for a small one is not the same. On the one hand, on the other hand, the bank was somehow spared in all of this. And the third and most important, unfortunately, advances, I could bet through j will end up in bankruptcy because there simply is no new capital without the French capital. In any case, the undercapitalised private sector in Croatia after 6 years of bloating is difficult to carry out in a situation where economic activity continues to fall. So you've got one indistinguishable situation. When economic activity falls, of course those who might potentially be interested in investing do not. And then in the end, even though I'm among the last to talk here about the need to state up, that the state should be an entrepreneur, it shouldn't, but in extreme conditions, we're all working in extreme conditions together, it doesn't matter who the government is, who the opposition is, the state has to start taking risks. At least now I don't want to repeat what I just said, so when we talk about industry. Economic cooperation funds were established in 2011 precisely with the aim of saving companies such as those I counted: Gredelj, Dioki, Immunological Institute. Let's say one Dina on the island of Krk, I don't have any more time, but there are 2 million squares owned by probably the future Luke Rijeka, LNG terminals. So do not save such a company and tomorrow actually earn from the position of the state when it is privatized is incomprehensible to me. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92260	Second replica, respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92261	Thank you very much. My colleague Milosevic, you spoke about the state of construction and housing by estimating this new law, the bill as the last nail in the case of construction. In fact, we all know that the real estate tax, or construction land, was 5%, will now be 25% VAT. How expensive it is for the execution price of apartments or apartments, in fact, it is really something we need to think about and how that high price of the apartment will affect those who and the buyers, not only the contractors, but also the buyers. I do not know how to create a market for these apartments or prices on the market for these apartments and whether there will be any traffic on this matter at all, or whether it will be significantly reduced. Really, let's say the last one or the last nail, see which one it is. When you were talking about the Immunological Institute, then you have a number of other examples, you probably know them themselves, who are under a set of suspicious circumstances of imposing various directors or presidents brought into a situation to fail even though they are export-oriented, almost exclusively production goes into export. For example. RIZ Transmitters, see only who was president of the RIZ Transmitter Management, with whom he was connected, I say suspect, I do not accuse, I am not BIAK, but a series of very, very suspicious circumstances under which it is tried to destroy as the Immunological Institute and RIZ Transmitters, you said Dioki, Dina etc. And another thing, eu funds, a new investment cycle, 3 billion and 600 million were paid for 2013, 3 billion and 100 were withdrawn. 500 million less than we paid, and we were supposed to withdraw 4 and 200, actually a billion and 100 million less. So the investment cycle trigger could be given its competence and its role as well as that of DUDI and CERRP, but unfortunately, they just seem to be doing the opposite of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92262	Time's up. The reply to the replica, the esteemed Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92263	Thank you. Well, first of all, I would fence myself, I don't believe in deliberately destroying certain companies in Croatia, and I'm not inclined to conspiracy theories, but what's for sure is that carelessness and in some way disorganization of the public sector and that certain, and also resolute ministers simply don't care and are not responsible enough, that's probably the result. On the other hand, it should be made clear, and this is until professional management is introduced in state-owned enterprises and these do not have the same system of rewards and bonuses as they have in the rest of the market economy, we simply find it difficult to expect these companies to prosper. As for the building and the one you asked me, there are very, very clear estimates of how much the price of the apartments will rise. It's about there somewhere between 3 and 5%, since 5% is no longer paid on that part of the building land and the corresponding cost. On average, your VAT was 16 to 17%. So now it's going to be 25%. However, when you look at the decline in purchasing power of citizens, given the fear of investment and consumption, let alone long-term investment, the decline of markets over the past six years. That's why I said it wasn't the last one, but the last nail because I just don't see it in the next year, two days of appetite for anyone to invest because so far the last few years has been a problem selling. And just one more sentence on the subject, and let's not forget that the banks still haven't seriously started cleaning up their balance sheets when, so I'm talking about construction again. When it all starts happening together, and it's going to happen at the latest in the next year, two days we can forget about the entire sector. This sector is, if a good memory serves me directly, which indirectly employs at the beginning of the crisis hundreds of thousands of people. It's a huge number. So, we're talking here. Excuse me. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92264	In the name of the SDP club, the respected Ivana Posavec Krivec will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92265	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister with an associate. Here we have also come to a law that in many ways all clubs that spoke more or less agreed on as something that has a lot of valuable qualities that should be supported and that will certainly help the Croatian economy as well. The value added tax law will also support the SDP club and we will actually try to highlight all the effects this law will produce and present positively. In addition to what we have heard from earlier clubs, this law will bring us into line with a series of EU directives, and that is certainly our obligation as full members. But in addition to what we must implement in our legislation, which is determined by the EU through this law, there are important changes that are part of the reform changes, which certainly bring benefits to a large part of the economy in the Republic of Croatia. I will therefore remain the most on these amendments, and we at the SDP club expect that the amendments to this law will certainly allow tens of thousands of companies to reduce their liquidity problems, not to close but to make their business easier. Since these examples are also present in other EU countries, we expect that the competitiveness of our entrepreneurship will also improve. The most significant changes, of course, relate to the payment of VAT at the expense of the invoice, not to the invoice. Direct benefit from such amendments as the proposing one, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is introducing this law to nearly 120,000 craftsmen and small entrepreneurs. One of the main pains we've had here today in debates and other clubs is actually inability or a very difficult charge. The colleagues here also talked about a series of legal frameworks that exist to ensure that the collection is within certain deadlines and that it is regular. Unfortunately, though, we have not yet come to the full fulfillment of all the legal frameworks, or legal standards. Therefore, this new norm introduced by this legislative proposal will certainly be well welcomed by a large number of entrepreneurs. From January 1st, as you all know well in 2015, all small economy entities with total annual incomes of up to 3 million kuna will be allowed to pay VAT at charged rate instead of the invoice. At present, only about 50,000 are in such a system that is driven towards the charged realization, and with new changes in the system, small entrepreneurs, almost 70,000 of them would enter the system. So that's how we get to this number of 120,000 taxpayers who will be able to pay VAT from now on only after they've been paid for. They will decide for themselves, according to the government's proposal, whether to pay VAT on the paid realisation or invoice. This will have a significant impact on a large number of craftsmen and small entrepreneurs precisely in terms of regular payment not only of their obligations but also of workers, settlement of obligations to suppliers, which means that the whole cycle in the chain could be more regular and that this business could actually be more correct. We have often had cases where many small entrepreneurs were forced to raise short-term loans to carry out their obligations towards the state, precisely obligations towards VAT, which at this point will no longer be the case. Of course, for the purpose of introducing such measures, revenue from VAT collection in the state budget is also expected to be delayed. However, we at the SDP club believe that this should not create significant problems for the state budget. According to some simulations available to us, the delayed VAT revenue over a three-year period would range from about 530 million kuna to over billions and 100 million kuna, and the amount of the delayed income would naturally depend on the different times of average payment of claims, and payment of obligations to suppliers, demand tax returns and assessment of the cost of entry into the cash system at all. At the same time, regardless of what we are talking about delayed estimated revenue for the state budget, it should certainly be said that these are exactly the funds from the time I said half a billion, up to more than billions of kunas which are actually direct aid liquidity for the very nearly 120 thousand craftsmen and entrepreneurs, i.e. I think that it is necessary to start looking at as employers, people who hire and who are actually largely gathering in small units of local self-government a large number of employees. Proposer of the Law The Government of the Republic of Croatia makes this significant change and actually brings in cooperation with entrepreneurs and craftsmen, following extensive insight into indicators and surveys conducted among taxpayers by the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts. In Croatia, the crafts chamber said it was about time, so far the regulations have affected the indifference of small and medium-sized enterprises, and certainly the closure of the good part of them. It has been more than 5.6 years since they asked for measures like this to be introduced from the HOC, and they are just welcoming what the government is, and so said predecessors on behalf of other clubs, the weeds of courage and wisdom to introduce this very new regulation into the VAT law. The current system was considered unfair because it was they who had to credit the state by paying VAT obligations before the collection of their claims. Furthermore, it is also new in this law to raise the amount of annual VAT revenues at charge from 2 to 3 million kuna and that is also in line with EU directives. Although it is a large number of taxpayers, I repeat 120 thousand, they are only small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who generate only 8% of the total value of the deliveries made at the level of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the third major newspaper we welcome at the SDP club is that in the VAT system, the Tax Administration will be able to execute an entrepreneur who used a deduction from the pre-tax and did not pay an account that was issued by a small entrepreneur. It is also important that all entrepreneurs will have to submit reports to the IRS that did not collect the bills. In fact, the Tax Administration will be able to be more active in protecting small entrepreneurs, will have a better view of the collection and, in fact, from everything I've said so far, it is clear that the SDP's position is that it is precisely all these small entrepreneurs, those who are the most vulnerable, who are free to say the last in the collection chain that they need to make additional efforts in order to facilitate their business. We in the SDP club conclude that these changes and regulation of taxation and control procedures will further stimulate the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, which will affect the development of an economic and better investment climate. We will give full support to the adoption and implementation of legal changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92266	Replica, dear colleague of Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92267	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Posavec, speaking of mobilising and helping small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, I would like to appeal to you at the SDP Club and your coalition partners to change in this law what applies to foreign bus drivers. According to the latest amendments, tax numbers were also to be opened, 7 documents translated into Croatian. At a time when the Ministry of Tourism is advertised at 365 days in Croatia just small buses, foreign buses are significantly damaged and this 25% VAT is a major burden on them and their business. And that's why they're giving up coming to Croatia. We are also expected to lose significantly in terms of income cuts, out-of-board consumption, for example. Neighbouring Italy does not have a VAT on such trips at all. Well, we'd like to ask you to think about it as soon as possible and release the foreign VAT bus drivers or at least cut the amount. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92268	Replication response, respected Ivana Posavec Guilty.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92269	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, this is a law that has really respected certain requirements. Today, there have been talks here on many other options where the VAT rate could be further reduced and how domestic production could also be contributed. Surely tourism is one of the main economic branches in the Republic of Croatia and what the Government of the Republic of Croatia has done in the last three years to make Croatian tourism more competitive in this year's tourist season. As mayor of a tourist resort, you know very well what tourism revenues mean to you in your original budget. There will certainly be more opportunities, and we as a member of the EU have taken on a number of commitments, a series of norms, and unfortunately this is how we often have to behave. It's not always possible to solve everything overnight, but as you can see, good will exists and positive shifts are here. So I believe there will be opportunities for these issues to be resolved through future laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92270	We're continuing to discuss clubs. On behalf of the HNS Club, respected Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92271	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor's deputy with the associate once again, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HNS Club right away, let me say that we will support the adoption of this amendment and the addition of the Value Added Tax Act. I think a lot of things are said, not to say everything, in the debates so far, so I think that in the name of the HNS Club, except for support and certain comments, I wouldn't repeat that this law brings everything with it except those effects that we think are really positive, really good, that it will help the economy, that it will help the economy to work better, that we get new employment. And what has been discussed and this is about liquidity in general in society and the collection of claims, which is essentially the key and intention of a good part and this law to improve the charge to and through this law specifically on raising the limit to 3 million kunas for craftsmen and small entrepreneurs paying at the expense of ensuring better liquidity. It is another measure of trying to get rid of it in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, when we talk about charging and giving up by the state at the start of the estimated billion kunas of VAT due to the estimated delay in the payment of the circus of 120,000 if everyone inside is small entrepreneurs and craftsmen. It is also important to repeat once again that state-owned companies and states outside the budget users must pay their commitments to the economy, or to all those under whom obligations are made within the legal deadlines. It's that start we're even discussing liquidity. We've been discussing this not only in the last three years, it's been discussed before. Only this Government, not only this law, but also the law, which has already been said in financial transactions and pre-demand settlements and other laws, is trying to bring that liquidity to an orderly payment of 30 days and 60 days, respectively. Certain effects have been achieved we heard the results are not at the level expected, we have this law that should further strengthen this with tax administration measures and control. We also discussed income tax a lot today. I took a look at the State Audit report on the collection of claims from local self-government units, it's about the data somewhere in 2010, but the data that says that local self-government units have a total of about 20, 21 billion now it's going to be a little less with the law we discussed earlier. But about 8 billion kunas are not charged. Today, these are not also smaller amounts, and it is also clear to all that the units of local self-government, and this was also generated by part of the debate and liquidity especially for those small entrepreneurs who are doing one part of the jobs that is extremely important, extremely high-quality, extremely important for them, for their business and employment and for paying their debts. It should also be said that, apart from state-owned companies, there are companies in, companies owned by local self-government that also have obligations to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, especially craftsmen that are not executed. And that's one of those key elements to reduce that liquidity. We get a lot of objections from lawyers, court experts who are also owed by the Ministry of Justice or the courts. So I would ask the Deputy Minister on this matter to see the same way to charge it or possibly compensate for VAT. As far as I know, the Ministry of Finance, if the funds are not provided by the Ministry of Justice, does not want to compensate for the VAT obligations, and on the other hand, the commitments that entrepreneurs have are further pressures that must be paid both in terms of pay and in terms of all those payments that are made to the State. Therefore, it is always the responsibility for liquidity and value added tax on the part of the state in the first order but also for local self-government units to implement it in any case. There has been a lot of debate, of course, and it is quite logical whether an estimate of a billion kunas has been delayed or it will be greater to ensure that the stability of the state budget on the implementation of all obligations. Well, here's a note, or I would remind you that we have a plan to manage the property of the Republic of Croatia, that we have a plan for 2015, that we have also recorded this property, and that therefore a plan for revenue from real estate, state property, profit of companies, sales of companies, sales on a regulated capital market is expected to total more than 3 billion kuna that should be merged into the state budget as well as a better quality management of the total property, which would make it possible to trust this delay of paying less directly in the state budget, because what you hold back can no longer be realistically taken back, you can settle. And I believe that both citizens with the Income Tax Act and small entrepreneurs of up to 3 million incomes in this year who can choose next year whether to pay VAT per bill or by charge and realize that this is one stimulating part that this government applies at a difficult time for the budget and deficit to ensure that it will make it easier but with all the efforts to boost absolute liquidity in the system, is without liquidity in the system we agree in the HNS club absolutely no measure, no law can contribute to the economy to grow quality and to get out of recession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92272	Thank you. He had one replica, respected Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92273	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague, you did not mention one important provision of this law and I think it is in the interest of all citizens, especially those sick citizens, which is actually the introduction of a reduced VAT rate of 5% of all prescription medicines, whether they are on the list of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute or not, but of course they must be approved by the competent authorities for medicines, or medical products. In this way, the availability of end-users is increased, and when we look at oncological patients who are increasing oncology every day, here, unfortunately we have data from breast cancer dying and about 1000 women a year, so I think that in this way the rate of VAT is reduced to such medicines, that there is an increase in availability and that, in fact, we have one relief regardless of the loss that you make to this 54 million kuna budget, but when you look at one patient when you have to pay one medicine and 20 thousand kuna, then it doesn't matter whether this medicine is going to be, you will have a 5% VAT or the current VAT that was. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92274	Replication response, Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92275	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, of course you're in health care, and I'm glad you noticed, and here's a chance for me to try to sum up these two laws that we're discussing today, here until 20 o'clock. So I guarantee 2 billion revenue to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia more on the basis of the release,...the tax rate. For medicines, we release 54 million kunas from the budget, estimated so that cheaper medicines can all be obtained and we free the economy from the obligation to pay immediately cca billion kunas. I believe that this is independent of the difficulties that local self-government, the difficulties of the state budget, shows only the determination to go towards both citizens and the economy to the end, and I believe that this will all, of course, result in both the successful and realisation and the 2015 budget, and what is crucial, the growth of the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92276	And one individual debate, dear John Schucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92277	Thank you very much. Well, I probably won't say anything new after this long debate, but I'd like to warn you of some things that unfortunately happen in a set of these laws that we're going to pass today and discuss next week, that ad hoc measures can hardly solve problems that are far deeper and far more complex. I remember stories a year, a year and a half ago, we solved the problem of indifference, everything works, but also the proposal of this law and the situation in the budget and everything we hear from the businessmen and unfortunately the vow of indifference is still very much floating over Croatia. That's a fact. And if we all start from that fact, then we'll probably be healthier and... we'll discuss the problems of eliminated policy, but obviously we don't want to accept that fact, we want to show how successful we are, how good we are, and how we've solved the problem that needs to be solved far more systematically. Well, isn't it defeating that in his report at the High House, the attorney general says the DORH owes nine million to the court warlocks. That the justice minister says he owes 50 million to the court warlocks. Now, look, colleagues and colleagues, we can think of whatever we want, but what kind of message does this state send, if the Department of Justice, which should right now be the main indifference resolution engine, owes 50 million to the court's experts? What kind of message do we send when a state's attorney here has to say that the state's attorney owes 9 million kuna to the court's attorneys? So, no matter how much we want to or don't want to admit it, unfortunately the biggest indifference generator is the state, the units of local self-government and the company in their mostly owned, large systems. It's a fact, and because of that fact, we're going to change the law. I support this, after all, I was talking about it two years ago that small entrepreneurs and craftsmen should be allowed to, in fact, protect them, not make it possible, I would say this is a protection measure. The measure of protection for the incompetence of state institutions and that is the fact here to be said. Let's not say we're giving someone something, we're just trying to protect them, and the question is, what effect all of this is going to be together if the state institutions don't become aware of this problem. And that's why I'm afraid of this provision where the tax administration, not only here, but in some other cases, is taking on one surrogate something that was once a long time ago, it was that account registration, it was just because there wasn't so much informational progress that it could do what it wanted to do now in the tax administration to let her know who didn't pay anything. Look what the tax administration is doing, let's look at the Tax Administration Act. You'll find it's not the tax administration's business. The tax administration's business is completely different. Does the tax administration in its offices have the technical and intellectual potential to lead it? You know that in all exposures, the smallest people deal with legal persons because reading the balance from a legal person knows relatively few people. Therefore, it is a large questionnaire and can be a major problem for the state to take over. I think it would be a lot easier, my colleague Linic was talking about the law that should have been dealt with, maybe it should have changed him in some way, but the state just needs to clear things up with itself, and when the state clears up... if it's the Financial Business Act, it's something else, it's irrelevant, but we just have to send a message to everyone, if you've done a job, if you've delivered him some kind of service and goods, that he has to pay you. We must send such a message, which laws will we change? The laws we're going to make, that's the thing of the one who's in power. But precisely because of not sending these messages, because of the lack of functioning of the judiciary, we today have a situation that the state couldn't collect its revenues. Most of those who haven't paid their taxes have been blocked. They're not that they're not blocked. Why couldn't the state charge? But the easiest thing to do is to call each other politically. And what's the result of all this together? We published a list of debtors, how much did we charge for it? So what would be a silly finance minister or a head of the IRS to tell someone about you don't pay taxes? Who would be such an idiot? But I'm just saying that some of the things that have been generated for a long time have led us to put in a measure that I welcome and support to protect those who are unfortunately unprotected. Another problem when we remove the country from this mile is what happened in the economy, what was the generator of economic growth in 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008 unfortunately became a black hole in the Croatian economy in 2009, 2010, and here I primarily think of the construction sector, namely the missed investment. Look in Croatia they were all lured to build apartments, all of a sudden they became builders because it was the easiest and most beautiful profit and then there was an economic crisis and unfortunately many had a breakdown. In some of the first efforts to help these companies through the state bank via HBOR and some other institutions, we have come up with a clear picture of what a picture of the Croatian economy is. So the only thing that tax bonds and craftsmen and small and medium-sized and large enterprises were for that moment longing for were trade assets because they were not there, they couldn't get credits. The state tried this or what, but the result is what it is and today we're here where we are. Individence is an adhesion that hovers over Croatia. If we're going to solve it with this, it's just a matter of me trying. However, many other institutions have to do other things, so it will be better. VAT on building land, I know it is an EU directive because, first of all, in one new building, you pay 25% for one part of that property, and on the other part of the property in this part of the price of the apartment that relates to municipal infrastructure and building land is paid 5%, so this is something that is illogical. However, we have taken this commitment since 1.1.2015, however, it is now being asked just like this not criticism but a purely rhetorical question whether, given the situation of this particular building sector and all together, we should have tried to make a delayed year or two days so that nothing else can be done because we will not, and this dead market of real estate we will probably freeze with this provision because the real estate will jump 3.4%, and all those who have entered this abyss to say real estate business whether they will be able to get away with it. Another thing that should also be recognised is that many have received loans and that in loans they have taken the obligation that the value of the apartment in the sale must not be between that amount and that amount. And if we were to say that these apartments were sold 300, 400 euros below that limited amount, neither would the one that invested nor the one that carried out the works nor the bank fall apart. And here we talk about one whole responsibility because no one in this whole story can be amnesty. And as long as we keep quiet the only dishonest and the only ones who don't work in this country will be politicians, they are the easiest to call out and with them is the easiest.... But this is one very, very wide cycle, one very, very long chain in which there are a lot of those who have to change their behavior and only in such a way will we succeed and only in such a way in half a year or a year we will not discuss the same problem. Because what we're going to say is that someone doesn't have to pay VAT until this guy pays his bill at the same time, the IRS will record it and they won't be able to collect from it. What did we do? We're nothing but gonna have one more knowing and nothing else. So, personally, I will support, and my club will support this bill along with this observation about VAT on construction land and this danger that could happen to the IRS. And I think, Mr. Deputy Minister, that it would be good for the ministry, first of all, for the ministry, and then for the government and all of us in the Parliament next week, we'll discuss the budget that you've made a possible delay not a loss but a delay. If it's going to be 500, 600, 700, billion kuna, it's definitely going to happen, just like the story of customs happened to us. And let's not be surprised next year that, for this reason or that reason, VAT revenues have fallen to us, so one well-intentioned remark because it's not good to keep it secret. Because you're going to see the next law, total illogicality, is expected in revenue from the 500 million kuna budget, and at the same time here we're saying that we want to help entrepreneurs. So a lot of contradictions and when you're running a tax policy with a lot of contradictions then you make a lot of mistakes, and that's unfortunately happening right now. And I repeat, in this chain each bear part of its responsibility and if each accepts part of its responsibility and adjusts part of its burden, I think we will find a solution, but with partial solutions unfortunately nothing. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92278	Thank you. The final minutes of this debate belong to Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92279	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, really in the shortest lines. Thank you, everyone. We followed while the Minister was here and the Deputy Director of the IRS and myself. We got the support of all clubs or at least conditional support, I don't know Mr Grubisic said he would consider more. I realized from his discussion that they would agree so we expect this law to be supported. You hear what you say, someone said tax is not charged, the tax administration is powerless at the beginning, we are not powerless, we work like in that movie every day in every respect we are making more progress and the tax this year is better charged than in the previous year, and even this famous VAT regardless of stagnation or decline of 0.7%. Now these ambitious revenues have been set on the real frameworks or not it's already a whole other topic. Mr. Schucker said it was not the tax administration's task, yes, this is the bail-payer's yet another measure, another tool regarding the possibility of the IRS to perform a performance over a certain tax entity, this is just a tool that will enable him to do so a better and more efficient organisation, you have also spoken in this last part much wider about it. One of the packages of this law is tax administration reform, and if I'm not mistaken tomorrow, we'll be able to talk about it. The amendment was Mr. Boluncic, he's gone, because of the add-on to the 3 directive, we won't be able to accept it, so I wouldn't be able to explain it any further now because he's gone. That's enough of the discussion, and I just started with the drugs, and we had to open that Pandora's box. Unfortunately, given the state of the budget, given the large deficits we have at this time cannot reduce the VAT, so the general VAT rate to..., to some we would certainly love. The question is how much of a downturn measure, and parallel food failure is consistent or not, these are always topics that we can open but difficult in this late hour. At this point, we can't really open it. Mr. Baranovic on behalf of the club or... the club of representatives, I can hardly repeat all these parties but spoke about the need for fish. Something wider needs of food come of course from agriculture, but at this point, it's impossible. That often speaks of competitiveness, the question of competitiveness. In that direction, it's not a question of competitiveness, which is why I'm saying it, because VAT is the same for everyone, for both domestic and foreign goods. In this regard, it's already a completely different story. One of the well-intentioned criticisms was in the liquidity of the public sector, whether it would be equal to... or to others. If I'm not mistaken, Mr. Milosevic, yes, to everyone equally, strictly to everyone, according to the measures we can, we have budgetary control. Often our people say in the bodies of the state administration and in the ministries and public enterprises and do what we can in this regard and really squeeze the deadlines and liquidity of payments. What I'm saying is the mechanisms of the Ministry of Finance and I believe we have some shifts here. Of course we can't change things overnight and only by this law, but I'm glad to say we're going forward in that regard. And this fundamental and greatest question of the dynamics of the charge of the budget, yes or no, given the number of all these laws, some estimates in the materials are as they are, are somewhere and sound contradictory. I say later on, we discuss each and every single one of them, but that's why the evaluations are, and that's why it's harder to determine them, unlike the customs income that was significant and slightly larger. He happens in the middle of the year, he certainly couldn't change some other relationships. As I was saying earlier, at the beginning of the year there are 120,000 taxpayers, 8% of the total VAT, many of them, are going to argue that they are not going to go on the charge of realisation but to enter the system so that they can reject their pre-taxes. Some of the craftsmen may do so, those who have very many opportunities, who charge in cash, who have activities in which they are finally in a series of charges. So, on that side, the loss, yes, but we estimate that by the end of the year, he would have failed and that the liquid impact that will take place in the first, second, third month so that the IRS could rule out income on this basis by the end of the year. That's the assessment she is, I trusted her. It's not burning to check again until Tuesday, until Wednesday, that all of these assessments we've said about these laws, anyway, it's our obligation, about budgeting in a year or two days. Here we can again try to recalculate everything, so if there are any numbers that we may be changing, we will gladly admit that we have not been precise enough, but I believe that this will not be so, and that in the end line we can also see that it is only an assessment and that after a few months after the measure is relived we expect that this liquidity shift in the grou of taxpayers would still allow them to put their products on the line, the volume of their services beats up that way with this payment shift and that we do not have a deficit. In any case, thank you again for your support and I believe that we will succeed by the end of the day and this other 3-4 laws get this kind of support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92280	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92281	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 723. The debate on the text of the final law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by MP Valter Boljunčić. I would like the respected Deputy Minister of Finance, Igor Radjenovic, to take note of the amendment of the Committee on Law. Amendment No 1 to Article 41
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92282	Amendment No 1 of the Legislative Committee to Article 41 is hereby adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92283	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. Valter Bolunčić, amendment to Article 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92284	We do not accept amendment number 2 of Mr Bolunčić in article 6 because the addition of 3 Council Directives, so Directive 112 with which the Value Added Tax Act must be harmonised is not an option for scientific equipment to be taxed at a reduced rate. In the event of a regulation of such a provision, the Value Added Tax Act would unfortunately be contrary to that Directive, so we cannot accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92285	Thank you very much. An indication of the applicant for the amendment, the respected representative of Walter Boluncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92286	We recently adopted a strategy on education, science and technology where it is said that additional funds should be invested. My amendment went in that direction that like some other things, let's say... etc. have 5%, that those scientific equipment that is purchased by means of allocated scientific projects, whether the EU or the Republic of Croatia budget to tax at a rate of 5, and not 25%. For the equipment to be purchased and important, for example, in researching private sciences, this amount is very important and it is very important on the other hand that someone who has received a European project will not be able to hire several people on the project, and we have seen how it stands. I don't think it's related to the EU because in our time we should even have tax science equipment not paid at all. Therefore, I demand a vote. So if we want science and education to go further, we can't have scientific equipment that's bought exclusively through science projects taxing 25%, and a whole series of other things we can find a reduced rate. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92287	Thank you very much. I ask you to vote on the amendment of the respected representative Walter Boluncic, whom the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. It determines he didn't get the necessary majority. 39 for, 3 abstentions and 69 against. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 113 votes in favour, 2 votes were abstentions and 2 against the law on amendments and amendments to the Value Added Tax Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92288	We move to the next point, which is - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on profit tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 725 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. I ask if the proposal's representative would like to further explain the proposal. Yeah. Reputed Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92289	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Amendments and additions to the Tax on Profit, also part of this package with several key changes. The first of them is to comply with Directive 86, from a mile between us called the daughter's mother directive, which therefore provides for a more detailed procedure for identifying dividend income and shares between related companies. So they are then excluded from one of those companies' taxpayers, I say, in order to prevent tax evasion or possibly double taxation on the common market. This is where the procedure is prescribed in more detail, so we're leaving those risks. As part of the harmonisation of the laws we just talked about, so raising the threshold to 3 million kuna, we believe that it is consistent that we also raise this threshold to 3 million kuna as we did with VAT. In addition to that criterion, the criterion by which it is compulsory to enter the profit tax system is amended. It was used to be one of the criteria of meeting only one criterion, the value of long-term assets, the number of workers or the amount of income. One of those criteria when you meet it was enough for you to enter the profit tax obligatorically. This bill needs to meet two criteria cumulatively, so the value of assets greater than 2 million, the number of workers above 15 workers or income levels greater than 400 thousand kuna. That's when I say there was a commitment that there was only one criterion, now we're raising two. It also enables those who wish and do not realize these, those entrepreneurs who want and do not meet some of these conditions to enter the profit tax system voluntarily and reduces the time of stay in which they must remain in that profit tax system. So far, the law has been prescribing for five years. This law has been prescribed for three years. As far as reinvested profits are concerned, we estimate that this is a measure that is good, which is on the trail of all other measures that are to maintain the life of the Croatian economy and that in no way can we give up on it, although there have been such speculation. We only serve some of its conditions, so the reinvested profits as such remain, but only those taxpayers who have actually made investments in long-term assets can use it, not those who have delayed them or who have reduced their number of workers. So we prescribe that the number of workers in the year in which, therefore, the profit is eventually reinvested must be kept at least at that level, at least two more years. The figure, the assessment of which my colleague Shuker has already twice, if I have heard correctly mentioning 500 million kunas we expect is an assessment from the National Reform Programme, perhaps one of those that is also much further around that assessment. But I say, it stands as such in the National Reform Programme and is sent to the European Commission and as such we stick to it as all estimates and in the final line and the European Commission and the Government and all institutions make their estimates of spring and autumn twice a year, so when the time comes we will also see with that assessment what it means. But for now, it's worth 500 million kuna and as we expect it to be. Here's what would be about those key changes. There are further technical changes to the procedures for the recognition of the expenditure of the value-coordination of assets. Some changes in the conduct of tax procedures that are very important to our dear taxpayers. But I really wouldn't bother you with those details, and that's where I finish my opening debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92290	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We're moving on to a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives Linic, Vuksic and Hodzic, the respected representative Slavko Linic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92291	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister with a colleague, colleague and colleague. The club will support the bill and there's nothing to add. I'll keep on making it easier to reinvested. And as we can see, these are more than 1 billion and 300 figures, in this year's estimate of a billion and a hundred in 2013. So, a huge relief given to companies to fix either their liquidity or to invest in some way. I also think that the proposal that the change in the use of funds is reflected only in 2016 means the tax on profit in 2015, which means in 2015, we estimate that liquidity is not significantly resolved, so we are still leaving the possibility that by holding, I would say by increasing capital to strengthen the liquidity of certain companies even next year. And I think any help in a three-year indifference battle is quite enough, quite enough. Unfortunately, the first two show that we failed completely in that battle. But obviously, when we talk about profit tax and relief, then he must really turn to the battle for the workplace and new investments, according to investment. So after three years, I think it's high time we only supported those who will fight for new workers and investment. However, I must say that we will all be happy if it is zero, so if this savings for the state budget is not achieved in 2016 of five hundred million because then there will be investments, there will be new jobs so there will be income from income tax, there will be income from VAT and then this relief will have its real function. So, there's not much to worry about with these estimates, because they're estimates that show if unfortunately there's no investment there's going to be 500 million savings. If there's going to be an increase in income based on other taxes, so in that part, I don't think it matters if we made a lot of mistakes on this assessment. But here I would take the opportunity to talk about something that, unfortunately, we are unable to submit or amend. Why? Because when you don't touch an article, then we're not even able to give an amendment. But when we look at the whole package that's in front of us, then we're back in the Law on the financing of local self-government units. Given the real loss of over 2 billion units of local self-government that will have due to different foundations and an increase in income tax relief at that time, the question is what to do after the law, the fundamental law on the financing of local self-government units. And that's the only place we should have found solutions, not talking and sending messages we're going to find compensation measures, so we're going to touch real estate tax, and then even that interest income tax we're going to pay back to units with special areas, that's to make up for the payout, I'd say tax and not count what else we're saying. We just needed to get to the bottom of the basic law, the Self-Government Funding Act. And if you remember once common taxes were income tax and profit tax. And what were we supposed to do? Tax on income in full amount leave to cities, municipalities, counties and for decentralised functions, 100%. And that moment would be a minor blow to local self-government units. And return the profit tax to what function? In the function of aligning certain illogicalities with local self-government units because this state finances, it can finance it. We are introducing a new 1.5% for projects to be co-financed from the EU. So let's get this out of profit tax. So some state in this tax that she's going to collect returns to the units of local self-government for alignment and I'd say financing joint programmes. And we solved the problem, they don't need compensation measures. Try to calculate so you'll see that alignments are not a problem, you have even extra funds in the fund from before, they're not a problem. So, if that's 1.5% and the state wants to help, then let's get out of that income. And that we first discussed the Law on the financing of local self-government, I believe that we could discuss today that in this law we define that part of the funds should go for these needs, and then through the Law on the financing of local self-government units, we will also establish certain relations. I therefore believe that there will be a very important debate with the Law on the financing of local self-government and the battle to be seen as a common income once again part of the profit tax. But with the joint income in that part that part of the funds should be given for alignment, because it is precisely there that those more participatory can finance those who lack the funds, without saying that it is the job of the state to help those 1.5% powerless. Well, I just think that if we find a solution to the Law on the financing of units of local self-government that unfortunately we will have to go back to this law with only one provision that funds can be used for the needs of the local self-government unit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92292	Ivan Shuker signed up for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92293	Thank you very much. Kolega Linic should not be resolved in this law, it is settled in the Law on the financing of the unit of local self-government where it will only indicate that part of the profit tax, whether it is 10% or 20% of the income of local self-government units and that it is practically not paid to the budget of local self-government because again most of it would have collected Zagreb, Rijeka and Split, rather than simply forming a balancing fund, and those 16% for the equalisation fund to be distributed to local self-government units, not that we units of local self-government for decentralised functions have halved the funds. And now you can think when the government makes a decision on standards in primary and secondary education how much that equalisation fund is going to have to grow. He's going to have to grow 500, 600 million kuna in the state budget if we're going to keep a standard of education like we have now. Because we just took that 600 million. Therefore, the Law on the financing of units of local self-government may need to be discussed first, and then perhaps the government would see some of its mistakes. And as far as profit tax is concerned, you know well that we have removed it from the units of local self-government only for one reason that all those who have the highest profit, these are banks, these are non-banking sectors, insurance companies, Leasing companies, energy companies, all of them are practically in the City of Zagreb, although their profits are due to the very nature of the services made by all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but the profit only went to the City of Zagreb. And then, basically, that's why the decision was made to make the profit a state budget revenue. But now given this intervention, it can be done to say what I know 15 or 20% of the profit tax to form a balancing fund and that these 16% for decentralised functions for the Balance Fund to distribute something directly and something for decentralised functions and thus help local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92294	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the club of Independent Representatives Grubisic and Cain. They're gone. They're losing the right to argue at this point. In the name of the SDP club, the respected Hrvoje Nekic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92295	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Deputy Minister with an assistant, colleagues and colleagues. Yes, this law is part of a package of these laws we're discussing today. Here's my colleague Schuker mentioned it today, the deputy minister, and also his colleague Linic, as far as the assessment itself is concerned, she is who she is. The estimate is half a million. My colleague Linic says if it's 0, we can be satisfied. Well, in the end, we'll see what effect that law will bring. Well, here I am, really, because I'm not going to be long already, but I'm just going to do the basics of this law one more time. Therefore, it is proposed to comply with a directive or EU law that prescribes provisions to prevent double taxation, i.e. double non-taxation of income between related companies, the use of the tax relief of reinvested profits, is further conditioned by investment in long-term assets and by retaining the number of employees. Third, in parallel with changes in VAT, the obligation to tax on profit is also prescribed for natural persons with income of more than 3 million kuna compared to so far where the provision of 2 million kuna was valid. Here, the SDP club supports the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92296	Thank you. On behalf of the DC and New Wave Club, Vesna Skare-Ozbolt signed up. She's gone. She's losing her right to argue on this agenda point. In the name of the HNS club will speak... /The Intruder doesn't understand. And I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It's marked as an individual, so I put it in the back. So, on behalf of the HDZ Club, the esteemed Ivan Schuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92297	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, regardless of these numerous audiences that are located in this high home and in a peaceful atmosphere, I have to say something that is the basic rule when it comes to taxes, the worst thing is often to change tax laws. And that's something that's not good, it's something that's not particularly smart in countries like Croatia that want to attract investors and this law reminds me of that people's first tooth and then whip. So, if by this law and some other laws, we add what the government has been saying to them, and now that after two years, it first gives up on a health contribution, it gives up on this and now look at the situation that we have. So we will practically within three years have different tax relations with people who have done the same thing, which is that they have invested part of their profits in space or in basic assets. However, I am a supporter of what most of the real managers and entrepreneurs say and that can't stimulate me or any of the tax incentives to invest. Because anyone who invests for tax-free has made a cardinal mistake and will be smashed into his head tomorrow. People go to invest when they estimate that with a new machine, with two or three new employees can produce some product or provide some kind of service and place it on the market and thus make more income and more profit. And that's logical normal thinking. There's no one to say I'm going to buy a machine now because the state won't charge me a million kuna taxes. You know who used to do that? Unfortunately, that's what happened to our farmers. When the state began to co-finance 50% of tractors and those if they had allocated 30,000 euros for a tractor, instead of making those 15 ready at home and buying something else, they unfortunately bought more expensive tractors. Maybe someone won't like it, but unfortunately, the truth. And let's stop having this socialist dog in our heads once and for all, that someone's going to invest in the business we're because they're going to get a tax relief, that's not true. We had this law that if someone invests, if they hire 75 people what I know invests so much and so much millions, 10 years pay doesn't pay a profit tax. So it was if he hires 25 people and invests 20 million 10 years, he only pays 50%, and then another 25%. Well, look, it's a far more favourable tax relief than this, the result is as it is, unfortunately, none. We have a loss of 200 thousand jobs, we have 300 thousand unemployed, we have a terriblely poor structure of the economy practically no production. And maybe our biggest problem right now is we don't have any production. And it would be a lot easier and I'd be the first to raise my hand if the deficit of the state budget was 25 billion, to give 5 billion in a boost in production, but to know that we're going to open 10, 20, 30,000 jobs. Look, we've been pushing money into shipbuilding for years one way or another. For the past 10 years, there's a colleague, Linic, during that government of the late Racan, and during the HDZ governments, we shot 25 billion kuna in shipbuilding, and what do we have today? Practically three half-dead. No matter what anyone talks or what anyone thinks. Look, we're now saying that in 2016 and that's what's not serious, which isn't a good state budget going to be on behalf of that we're gonna lift some tax relief rights to 500 million, so that's evidence of totally missed measures. No offense, pal, but I think that's proof that we totally missed directions, that we didn't hit them. Because what it means is if you change, if he doesn't fire the worker, if in three years, which means nothing, it doesn't mean anything. That's what we need to look at for real. But what tickles me especially, and I'm particularly allergic to it, and it's these mothers, daughters, brothers, sisters in businesses, which is why we introduced this unfortunate OIB that unfortunately has never functioned in full strength, to see who owns it, and then to finally bring down that law on related societies and to prove that there's a 15th company in what kind of relationship with those five companies that have left minus and indifference. And when we do, we won't be needing these reliefs. And that's why this definition of mother, daughter, mutually connected society can hang that cat on the tail. If there is any connection, the owner of the company's company with another company, make sure that it is closely linked and that any last person with any income and any value should be charged to the first company. And maybe that article where you're talking about that spillover is more important to me than anything in this whole story. Because it will simply prevent this spilling and spilling. Because the easiest thing to do is to say how unpaid it is in Croatia, but if you have a total of 50 billion or how much debt there has already been, 68% of the assets are owed by the company without one employee, so it is a clear signal for the alert in all the laws that regulate from the commercial court to the IRS that something is wrong and that we need to settle it and then we will return to this law as soon as possible and taxed on added value and tax evasion. You will see what happens now after something that has been very important in recent years is that craftsmen have paid value added tax according to paid realisation and those who have conducted bookkeeping according to profit tax, so both craftsmen and entrepreneurs have paid according to invoiced value. Now it is possible for craftsmen to voluntarily, whether they meet or do not meet the conditions, pay the profit tax. So who's going to risk who's got a slightly higher income to pay 40 percent for most of their income, and there's a 20% profit tax here at the same time? It's something the tax administration should think about, when they're done consulting, then maybe they'll shut up. It's something that the tax administration needs to think about, and it's bound to happen. It is not our people nor ignorant nor our people who will not take advantage of what the legislation offers them. And as small and medium-sized entrepreneurs rebelled and craftsmen who, because of the turnover of 2 million kuna, had to run double accounting, that they had to go and run military accounting and pay profit tax and therefore pay VAT according to... values, so now you will have a reverse process and with full right. Why would I pay only for a different organisational form of income tax 40%, and here I have the opportunity to pay the income tax 20% and do what I want. And another thing, don't forget the craftsmen don't have a salary. So, they're full income, income, and when they go into the company, they'll get paid and other things, look at the conditions for opening one craft, and look at the conditions for opening up the same activity when the company opens up. It's incomparable to open up a company and deal with some kind of activity, you only have to hire a master of someone who does it and you've met the conditions, if you have some special profession, and yet a slightly different situation is needed for the craft. So, one obvious change that will lead to a lot of, a lot of chain reactions and a lot of chain changes, and that's when we did the Fiscal Responsibility Act, you know what, we didn't put some provisions in the Fiscal Responsibility Act because it was someone's whim, but just looking at all this that could happen, so we asked that every proposal of the law was introduced and an assessment of the fiscal impact. And the fiscal impact assessment is still these processes that will happen. But I'm saying we have no reason not to support this bill because at the end of the day he's been following up on what our club's been saying for three years, but as responsible people, come on, we have some experience, we wanted to warn about some things that can happen and that should be very careful, but I say, these changes put countries in countries that don't have legal certainty and I'm a supporter of that better and a little worse law to last longer, but here, first... and after that... don't like it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92298	We have a single line reported, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92299	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear fellow Shuker, I just want... to do everything you've said, which is whether we want to or not, now that we're a full member of the EU, but even before, now a lot more, as are companies in competition with their European partners, competitors, however you like, so are the competition countries, and also the tax competition, not only within some wider region, but in relation to many countries, in the fight for investors, so if you want... to keep your own customers. Never easier than the last year, go online, order some stuff, get delivered, delivery costs are small. So, go to the Amazon, go to ebay, you get goods today at reduced prices of a variety of species. So we simply, we have to work to be very competitive and this is not only about obtaining capital taxes and so on, but in general all the tax rates we have in Croatia today, and you mentioned, I have so many minutes and shipbuilding, there is only one solution for future such attempts. I think you said 25 billion, there's only one way to avoid it, and that's private property. Privately owned as far as I know, there are no subsidies in Croatia, therefore the same concerns these companies that I spoke about today, as well as the immune institution. A wise state would separate in an immunological institution what concerns blood derivatives and plasma compared to everything else that is global business. It would privatize, and her blood derivatives would be kept in her system, she'd have it under control. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92300	The replica matches, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92301	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Milosevic, therefore, mentioned the shipbuilding in the context of people investing because they would get a devastating relief, rather than those who really want to do the job invest because they see some prosperity in it. For years, the state has also invested in shipbuilding for some traditional reasons, not for economic and market reasons. It simply did not force them to restructure because if we had forced them to restructure, perhaps the situation in those shipyards would be different today and perhaps the public debt that jumped in 2011, so terribly jumped for the sole purpose of shipbuilding, would not be what it is, but probably would be something else. However, when I look at all these laws and these laws that we're going to discuss later, what is 25 billion, which is a lot of money, and if that was cleverly pushed into something too much, or if those shipyards had been forced to restructure, they probably wouldn't be talking about 300 thousand unemployed today, and they probably wouldn't be talking about a million and 340 thousand jobs, but they'd probably be talking about a million and 600 thousand jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92302	On behalf of the HNS club, a respected colleague, Srdjan Gjurkovic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92303	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Minister of Good evening, Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. Here, fellow Shuker's smoking a little bit. This is, everyone says one part of the tax laws package and all those laws that are going to come to us in the debate, which today, which the tax system tomorrow, essentially shows real reform in the tax system. Not because we're going to have the Tax Administration Act, but a large set of laws that raises standards. In this law, we see one extremely important thing, which is that the related persons, not only in the analysis of profit tax and dividends, are connected and are prevented from essentially not only from the tax ejaculating in the Republic of Croatia but from networking with the EU. In the light of the above, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation The general tax code is all about one control way to not only get money laundering, but to extract funds and non-taxation. It's all about raising standards. It is also when we talk about raising the limit to 3 million kuna, given that in the previous law and entering the VAT we have raised to 3 million kuna, it is clear that this law must follow that there is logic in this matter. When we talk about the exemption of income tax or reinvested profits, the same additional standards are set. 20% of profit taxes are realistically speaking and not a big tax on profits. The measure if reinvested in long-term assets, if retained, is an additional measure which disagrees with the key to investing in the Republic of Croatia. The key is the whole math, the calculation. I'm glad that all these tax laws we're going to make or we're going to discuss are basically improving what we have. It is not good to change, but if we change something that is in favour of investors, what is in favour of citizens then the change needs to be realistic is something that is essentially expected, something that is and is the role and task of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. How will there be effects not only of this law but of all the laws? Realistically, they are focused on increasing consumption, on greater economic activity and on avoiding tax evasion. These are three key things, three key elements when we look at these tax laws and those that come will show only one activity not only of the intention and desire of a good government but one activity concrete and clear in a very complex package of tax laws to help raise spending in the coming year and with taxes to get out of the recession to make the economy better, to be better quality, to provide them with that flow and the need for the state to help in investment and in realisation. Today here's a little digression, we also had on the Committee on Budgets even though I am speaking on behalf of the club a debate on a new general tax law in which the Tax Administration should be as much a partner of the economy as possible, the one who educates and helps, not just a repressive apparatus or institutions. And these are all the measures and these tax laws that we try to make the most of being in the hands of the economy. What is crucial is to control the charge, to boost the charge, to reduce the part that is tied to both the grey economy and tax evasion. There's an extremely large role for the IRS. I think that a deep analysis that will be carried out and for the users of the budget would be necessary to do a deep analysis to use these institutions and to prepare these laws and analysis in the analysis and state of the economy and measures and I think that we will then be better quality and economy help because the economy is not able to do certain analyses, I think that country can do much more. So we support this bill and we believe that it will really have concrete effects and quality measures not only for the budget but also for stimulating the economy for further investment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92304	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92305	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on profit tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 725. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The amendment submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia was delivered within the business period and became an integral part of the final draft law. The amendment was also submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like the respected Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radjenovic to take note of the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives. Amendment No 1 to Article 4
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92306	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We do not accept the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives as we have incorporated the content of this amendment into this amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which has arrived within the deadline provided, and therefore there is no need for us to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92307	The amendment was withdrawn by the Legislative Committee. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes have been passed by the law amending and supplementing the Law on profit tax in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted, and 84 votes in favour, 9 abstentions and 22 votes against.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92308	We move to: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Real estate tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 726 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92309	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As with previous laws, the most necessary in the introductory part. So in the context of the package and consequently with value added tax, we are harmonising this law with the Tax Act on additional value, so land and buildings will also be taxed by this bill as a single whole and other than buildings and land will be paid on VAT. We've talked before, and we can't run away with 1.1. We're moving on to this. And what's negative is why it hides that, unfortunately, in the first purchase of real estate, citizens will no longer be freed from real estate tax, unfortunately the real estate tax will not be any more, so the first purchase of that release won't be possible because the land and buildings, as I said, will be taxed as a single unit. It is specified by this proposal of the law and the establishment of a tax base, so it is prescribed that the tax base will be established at the time when the Tax Administration finds out about acquisition and not according to its value when it is acquired. We kind of criticize ourselves through the IRS sometimes too many times to realize that real estate was acquired from one side, and on the other hand the dynamic price of real estate. We think this is a more correct solution. The third amendment is tax exemption in the case of a status change in the separation of a company. So far, mergers and mergers have been prescribed, and separation has been prescribed, but unfortunately it is not separation by this regulation, so tax exemption will also take place in the separation of companies. It was one of the faults so we took advantage of these amendments and additions to the law, and that's a relatively rare phenomenon, but let's change that anyway. And the last major change is keeping records of real estate traffic, i.e. Announcing traffic records of a property tax administration which uses for its own purposes, on its own behalf and on its own account, to be declared an official record. In fact, most of you probably know that the Real Estate Assessment Act is being prepared, that the Ministry of Construction is preparing it. These days, a public debate on it began, and on this side will be used for the needs of the Ministry of Construction and, on the other hand, for local self-government units when the official record is made to facilitate the collection of municipal compensation while it still exists, we believe tomorrow and the property tax, so for the purposes of the unit of local self-government, that record would be official and then be easier to detect changes in owners. On the other hand, it would improve the efficiency of the bill. Here, as I promised, dear remaining colleagues and colleagues, this would be a brief opening statement on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92310	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. We're moving on to a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, colleague Domagoj Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92311	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, Deputy Minister. I hope for the past few years we've made sure that the tax is less. I think we could calculate that from the past few budgets, and especially after this we have now entered the 7th year of the crisis, it's 7 years I don't know what not, sorrows and sorrows, but that's just so I don't repeat what I've already said in the name of the club, I'm going to say one thing, and that's not the state can run away from responsibility for its own economy, and that's also for filling my own budget. So simply after 6 years of recession and the collapse of the entire construction industry and the construction sector, I understand that there are European rules, but I also don't understand that in time no action is taken towards Brussels. Today, the administration and red tape are mostly sitting there, and I'm sure they're willing to listen and they're ready to talk. If you could get a delay I don't know, probably not, but if you could access this problem in any other way is safe. What bothers me the most over the years, which is that we're all playing a game together where we all lose, but absolutely everybody: state, citizens, economy, we're all losing, and I'd like us to play the game where we all win, and that game can be played, but you just have to finally take on at least this sector's responsibility and tell people somewhere we'll find ways to cut the cost. So I know this isn't nice to listen to, but there are other parts, maybe not in your ministry because these problems are complex, but in other ministries, in order to sort of reduce that burden that isn't just tax. There's a whole series of givings, contributions, and everything and anything that could somehow reduce this pressure that's going to happen. I'm not going to bother you so much right now with everything. I can only say one more thing, and that's why this real estate tax when you're looking at general I think we're absolutely at the top of the European Union and per VAT with 25% in this case and not just this case, now we're talking about the building and the apartments, we're at the top, I'm sure. So we simply can't expect anything from that sector and from that sector if you don't do something about it. No one can take another to you. We can make some suggestions here. There's a suggestion as far as I've seen from the employers' association, they've been giving you something. I know it's not everything in your domain, but the government just can't get away from responsibility right now. I've already mentioned that there must be 50 thousand people unemployed today from that sector. At some point, it needs to be stopped. I think this is the last moment to try to save more to save that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92312	Thank you very much. Representatives of the HDSSB, IDS and Furia Radina, DC, New Wave and Reformists are not present, so they lose the right to debate on this point. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Đurđica Plancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92313	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. Therefore, the real estate tax is the total revenue of the state budget and the budget of the municipality or city in which the property is located. Real estates are all land and buildings regardless of their purpose, and the subject of taxation is the traffic of real estate i.e. any acquisition of property regardless of how acquired by other persons. The basic law was passed in '97. The year was changed by the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia in '99. the years and amendments to the laws in 2003 and 2011. Current amendments and additions to the law are part of the Ministry of Finance's tax reform under the commitments of the Republic of Croatia to the European Commission, in line with the National Reform Programme for 2014. They are also indirect in compliance with Council Directive 2006/112/EC of 2006 on a common VAT system whose direct application is possible to amend the VAT Act, which enter into force on 1.1.2015. However, the basic reason for amending the law is its alignment with the provisions of the VAT Act. In the current system of taxation of real estate taxes is paid in the acquisition of all real estate, except for the acquisition of newly built buildings where value added tax is paid. At the same time, value added tax shall not be paid on the delivery of agricultural, construction and other land with or without a building on it, although the supplier is a taxpayer of value added tax. Therefore, on the transport of building land is always paid tax on real estate, even when the supplier is a taxpayer of value added tax. Such a supplier is now in the current system in the case of traffic of newly built real estate under the obligation of two different bases and by different tax regulations. Thus, its building value is the basis for establishing value added tax, and the value of land and compensation for the municipal planning of this land is the basis for real estate tax. On 1 January 2015, the provisions of the Value Added Tax Act, which allow for the direct application of the said Council Directive, shall enter into force. These provisions prescribe taxation and value added tax, supply of buildings and land on which it is located, and supply of construction land. The following would be double taxation. In the delivery, real estate would be taxed with value added tax and in the acquisition of real estate tax. In order to avoid such a situation and since taxation is clearly defined by the Value Added Tax Act, it is necessary to comply with these two rules. Therefore, the proposed amendments are prescribed to exempt from paying real estate tax from obtaining all real estate to which the supplier paid value added tax. Thus, both future land and buildings will be taxed as a unique whole by value added tax. These amendments and additions shall specify the establishment of a tax base. The tax administration shall, as a rule, establish the basis according to the property acquisition regulation, but in the event that a lower fee has been made than it would have been achieved on the market, the IRS shall be authorised to carry out its own assessment. The basis of real estate tax is the market value of real estate at the time of the creation of the tax liability. It has proved necessary to define the basis in the case where the obligor does not report the timely occurrence of the obligation. It is then established as a basis the value of the property at the time of registration or the knowledge of the Tax Administration, but according to the state of the property at the time of the creation of the tax liability. Thus, any subsequent changes to the real estate will not affect its market value. The proposal for a law extends the definition of a tax base in the transport of commercial real estate. If the declared value is lower than that which can be achieved on the market, then, as the basis of the real estate tax, the fair value of the property shall be recognised in the financial statements and the business books of the entrepreneurs if, in accordance with international accounting standards, the revaluation model applies. This will avoid frequent long-term procedures for assessing its market value. If, however, real estate in the financial reports of entrepreneurs is valued according to the cost model, the market value of the property will continue to be assessed by the Tax Administration. The tax administration may receive the knowledge of real estate traffic from a public notary, competent court or other body and the taxpayer himself. Most often, the level of tax is determined by the basis of the data highlighted in this document and by a temporary tax solution. However, it was also necessary to provide for the possibility to adopt a tax solution in the event of a subsequent verification of the data contained in the application establishing an additional tax liability. At that time, the Tax Administration will make a solution that determines the difference in the tax liability, which is fully independent in terms of legal medicines and enforcement. In addition, this amendment also provides for an orderly fee procedure for the tax exemption which may arise if the Tax Administration finds that the citizen has misused his right to exempt the tax in the purchase of the first real estate, which he has resolved his residential issue. A significant newspaper is the introduction of an obligation to keep a record of real estate traffic with the Tax Administrations. By establishing control of the way of taxation, as well as full and systematic monitoring of the real estate market, the obligation to report any traffic of real estate shall be laid down regardless of the way in which it is taxed. The records will provide information on real estate prices on the basis of the prescribed form or property acquisition documents. The data will be submitted to the authorities of the State Administration on request. They can also be assigned to local regional self-government units without being a breach of tax secrets. The practice showed that local self-government units often did not have this data, so they could not play a more active role in the collection of these revenues. The existing criminal provisions shall be brought into line with the Criminal Act, that is, the Penal Code, with the introduction of sanctions and for suppliers other than the bonds of payment of the property tax unless the Tax Administration delivers and registration of traffic within the prescribed time limit. The transitional and final provisions prescribed the handling of real estate traffic resulting from the finalisation of 31 December 2014 or after 1 January 2015. In order to distinguish the application of the rules, the date of conclusion of the contract, the creation of another document on the acquisition of real estate or the power of decision shall be determined on the basis of which it was acquired. Finally, it is also necessary to refer to the fact that the adoption of these changes in the way of accounting and payment will result in a reduction of budget revenues based on real estate tax, which will in particular be felt by the budgets of the local self-government unit which they will not be able to compensate with the VAT at the same time. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of units of local, regional self-government are foreseen from 1 January 2015 to increase the share of local units in the distribution of this revenue from 60 % to 80%, which will to some extent mitigate this loss. In view of all the above, we at the SDP club will support the adoption of the proposed amendments and additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92314	Thank you. Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92315	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Plancic, if you hadn't said in the first sentence that the revenues of municipalities and cities would be increased by these amendments and the additions of the Real estate tax law, I wouldn't have come forward since you came from local self-government units, if you had done that job. You know very well today after the talks, i.e. having a debate on the law, on amendments and additions to the Income Act, how many units of local self-government will lose up to 2 billion. But with this law, the local self-government units will lose funds. This is what you see in the estimates and sources of the necessary means to implement this law where you are told that at the same time some revenue of 115 million kuna is expected, which is almost impossible because there is no real estate tax, i.e. it is very small and there will be lost large funds for local self-government units. And they themselves say in the budget of the units of local self-government under the applicable legislation goes 60% of the income from the tax on real estate, and that... the unit of local self-government in which the traffic of real estate has been achieved. The loss of the budget of local self-government units is estimated at 70 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92316	Replication response, Miss Plancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92317	I don't think you are, or I wasn't clear enough, you didn't hear what I said. I said there will be a reduction in budget revenues especially in local self-government units, but I hope that the proposed amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government units in which the participation of local self-government units will increase the loss to a certain extent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92318	It's late, so maybe we don't have a good concentration. On behalf of the HNS club, colleague Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92319	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear deputy, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HNS Club, we will support the amendments and additions to the Real estate tax Act. But I would like to stress that, first of all, for the sake of the public, that this is about the transport of construction land, a property tax is paid regardless of the delivery status of the taxpayer in the register of value added tax. So this is about a 25% tax that is introduced into newly built real estate where the building value enters as a basis for determining value added tax. Which means that there is still traffic in construction land and other land remains at 5%. It is true that 70 cca million kuna will be estimated to be reduced income units of local self-government. And what this law certainly fails to complete, but it helps in that segment when it comes to assessing the market value or the assessment of the basis for tax calculation, what is clear and true as well as the Government in its proposal and explains that the value of commercial property is very difficult to assess at the time of the creation of the tax liability without the expert assessment of the experts, it is clear that there are also different expert assessments, so there is a judicial process. And then basically this problem that was being brought up in this High House tonight about a large number of properties that are being blocked at this point then we have an additional blockade due to court proceedings to carry out a certain traffic, one... both real estate and funds. And on that point, I think it is extremely important, independently of this law, to further consider a way that I will not say that I will not simplify but to make it much clearer and simpler in the assessment of real estate in which citizens when they are trading real estate, when buying real estate and paying VAT of 25% which is not little, since it is large amounts of trying to simplify or unify processes. What is not good, which is when experts from the tax assessment alone leave room to discuss certain thousands of euros or tens of thousands of kuna differences when taxes should be paid and disputes arise. We know when someone was importing a car and having to pay customs or when an assessment of a vehicle is then there is not much debate, then it is very simple and very predictable on certain tables and patterns to know how much to pay to the state. When assessing real estate, it is extremely important for better and better quality craftsmanship but also for clarity when someone buys to know what his obligation is, that there is no natural manipulation of value. That right here when it comes down to finding out that there was a real estate transaction, then there's an estimate of what happened when it happened. I have to admit that I don't understand how to determine something that was 10 years ago, refuse all possible investments and get real market value. So, on this point, together with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning, the Ministry of Finance should make it concrete and clear that I say the rules of the game so that citizens when they sell independently where they sell know and can do much easier than taking more court witches by ending up in court by slowing the proceedings. I think one of the important things about this real estate sale, the assessment of the IRS is that we have to make an effort all together, especially the government to find certain formulas that will simplify the processes, and especially that when citizens sell real estate or buy real estate, they know how much they're going to cost. Because it definitely affects both the purchase and the sale of real estate. So the HNS club will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92320	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92321	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Real estate Tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 726. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes are 83 votes in favour, 5 abstentions and 28 votes against the law on amendments and additions to the Real estate tax in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92322	We move on to: - Final proposal to amend the law on gambling, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR. 729. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the report at the session. And Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radinovic will explain the bill to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92323	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. It's about changing only one article so that the opening debate and I believe even the debate won't be so long. You are all here to know that we are in a collective procedure of excessive deficit and that in the three years that are ahead of us, we aim to reduce the budget deficit to the frameworks set by the European Commission, so below 3% and that we can keep this dynamic both by reducing expenditure and by increasing income. So one of the measures to increase, to reduce the deficit and increase the revenue side was to tax the winnings of betting games. They will remember more carefully among you that the proposal to win from betting games is all the gains taxed on certain rates, but also the lowest gains with a 10% rate, and then gradually rises, and that after the debate in the Parliament, the government reached for an amendment and accepted that it win up to 750 kuna, however, the winnings from betting to 750 kuna do not tax. With this bill, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is returning to its original proposal and is proposing to the Croatian Parliament to pass the law under which these gains will be taxed. There were objections when the law was passed that certain traffic would be a trap, so the untaxable gains existed from 750 to 30,000 kuna, but traffic in this activity unfortunately or fortunately depends on which angle you look at growing or not at some high rates but unfortunately the traffic of betting I say is growing, unfortunately or fortunately for the state budget. So we don't expect this taxation of profits to cause a certain reduction. The effects we estimate on the state budget would be the new 165 million kuna and they would allow us to fill all these other expenditures in the state budget in a way that the deficit is as small as possible. I expect your support for this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92324	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of Croatian Labour Club colleague Mladen Novak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92325	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor. I must admit that this was a little shocking to me, says the Deputy Minister of Finance unfortunately the revenues were higher, so it turned out, so it turned out. Well, as far as I'm concerned, I've never been into bookies or that's what I'm interested in, so I could say that we can cancel them, but then, usually, when you cut something off, ban it, then it's a fertile ground for that illegal part. To be honest with you, when I went to prepare this topic, then I was interested in this explanation, planning additional fiscal revenues of 165 million kuna, but the success of realising the planned amount of fiscal income from the profit tax will depend on the size of the possible negative consequences of taxing all the winnings of betting games in the form of giving up a certain number of betting players. That's what they said, and all the MPs have been given a letter since I've been wrong about a few of those bookies so that any adverse consequences could be a reduction in the number of workers in those bookies. I don't know if you've calculated with that, yes, you haven't, obviously you haven't, and you've put this in such an ominous method. But I went to watch a little bit on the Internet as those who are, not to say 100% on it, so there's an Internet bet warning among other things. I don't know in which way, if it's going to be a possibility of taxation, whether it's being taxed at all, and I haven't found anything on it at all, but judging by what you can read at the forum it's really taken quite a wave and there's a far bigger amount going on than these in these classic bookies. I believe that they, too, have found information that 440 thousand people enter bookshops every day in Croatia. I mean, it's really by my surprisingly large number of people, but good. I guess most of them are out of some kind of fun and you cut yourself some time, you get some kind of interest. I believe that these people will not give up on it and those who are concerned, those who are addicted to it will certainly not separate them from it, or will not convince them that this addiction is not good for them. In any case, the Croatian Labour Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92326	Thank you too, colleague. On behalf of the Croatian party of retired colleagues Željko Šemper.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92327	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, Deputy Minister, with a deputy. My colleagues and my colleagues are very few. Since 01 April 2014, the Law on Games on Happiness has been amended, which sets tax classes and taxes on gambling. Although the legislator proposed that all profits be taxed, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has eased such a proposal by its amendment, so the tax did not apply to profits up to 750 kuna. The assessment of the Ministry of Finance was optimistic, that in such a way taxing the state budget would be... about 300 million kuna, but it is now seen at the end of the year that it will not be achieved. That is why this hasty amendment of the law goes to the original proposal to tax all gains, except for those in the lottery games where profits up to 750 kuna would not be taxed. The change would refer to the game..., the betting games, the games to the automatics. We see from the assessment of the situation that the income in 2014 will be around 120 million, and for 2015 the income of 165 million is planned which should be achieved by taxing profits up to 750 kuna. In my view, for such an assessment under this law, there is no more detailed analysis of the structure of the incomes so far per editor, but also of the existing 4 winning classes as well as the expected income of up to 750 kuna. The second question is how much this change will affect a large number of low-paying players who make a large number of small profits, just as with lottery games that are exempt from that tax. This may also be about some kind of discrimination, but we think that this solution will be... just for the largest number of players who are happy and smaller. By April 1, 2014, the betting market grew more than 10% each year, while this summer, despite the World Cup, a decline in payments was recorded, and after these changes of the law, 5% of income was recorded. A new way of taxing this year will result in a further decline in player's interest, lower bookies' incomes, and thus lower revenues to the state budget. While taxes hit legal bookies,... nothing is done to ban the work of foreign online bookies, their... advertising in all the media in the Republic of Croatia, which is prohibited and which do not pay much taxes. In addition, Croatia is one of the countries in Europe in which the fee is paid for both payment revenue and tax revenue. In 2013, the bookies paid 280 million kuna on a 5% payment fee in 2013, and these changes can even reduce the expected revenues from both taxes. The promoter here, of course, looks at the interest of the state budget, how to increase the revenues from betting, but there is no need to exaggerate and perhaps do more damage than benefits. For example, the promoter does not look at the annual cost of players, and how rarely does some of them get back and then from that small profit, the state now wants to take one part. Most small players, and among them there are pensioners, I have also played for years and I have known this mentality, which with small stakes, but with great hope naturally expect their bingo that would solve all the problems in life. Of course, such gains are very small, they can be added to the fingers of one hand. The proposer must be aware of the consequences of this amendment to the law because the planned amount and success of the expected income will depend on the size of the possible negative consequences in the light of the resignation of a number of players who are just the winners of these small gains that will now be taxed. I'm not so sure that the planned, not the incomes achieved, will be compensated from taxes on profits up to 750 kuna. Dear Deputy Minister, I personally think it is necessary to amend and supplement current tax classes and rates, which would be more stimulating for players and more useful for the state budget. So I suggest that so far the 10 and 15% classes remain the same, so still the untaxable 750 kuna. 15% as it has been so far, from 10 to 30 thousand kuna. Third grade, 20% on profits from 30 to 100 kuna, not up to 500 thousand, pardon 30 thousand to 100 thousand, fourth grade 30% from 100 thousand to 500 thousand, and here I would suggest a new rate, as we have on the salary, at the highest salary, also 40% on the highest profit. The principle of any taxation should be to protect those with low incomes, in this case they are players with lower profits, and they are taxed with higher rates, those with higher and higher profits. This would stimulate the vast majority of the so-called. small players to continue playing, if their small profits were not taxed, and those who made big profits and after such taxation would still have plenty of money and time to think about how to fertilize the profits even more. So, the proposed taxation of profits up to 750 kuna, we believe, will have negative consequences. Taxing the highest winnings with 40% would have increased the effect and income from taxing profits to 750 kuna. This class and rate schedule would be more stimulating for players, especially small players, but also for the revenues of the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92328	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92329	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. This is nothing but another new tax, another burden for Croatian citizens no matter how much an aversion to gambling, according to betting. I spoke in this assembly a long time ago when some wanted to issue a license for gambling machines in cafes that addiction to gambling might be when you look up in Vinogradska there might be more of them than some other addicts and it's the same disease as any other addiction and destruction of many families and many people turned black. However, we also cannot escape the fact that it is there and that many Croatian citizens are betting, that most of them are paying small amounts, most of them getting small profits, and it was logical that the government was, how long ago it was 6, 7 months ago, when it passed the law by its amendment, changing that 750 kuna is untaxable. But like everything else after a few months of amending the law, so we made a mistake, we joked about taxing it. Wouldn't it make more sense that instead of these 750 kunas, this Internet betting that is very present and that without any control that these Internet bettings have been banned from advertising in the Republic, that they have to get permission, that they have to pay for this license and that they can then be present on the market is this market as well as anything else in the Republic. The second thing is, I don't know what the difference is if, say, my colleague Schamper goes out and pays the lottery and gets 10 kunas, and me or my colleague Gjurkovic goes to the bookies and we get 10 kunas. We both tried our luck, and we got one and the other, but my colleague, Schamper, he's gonna get his 10 kuna, and I'm gonna get nine kunas. What difference does that make? Only because the lottery is state-owned and has a monopoly, and these others are not state-owned and do not have a monopoly. I must say that by 2004 someone deliberately released the Law of the lottery of Croatia and practically did not have a single lottery of Croatia started developing a betting system. But if we're already taxing gambling, then let's get the winnings to tax them all equally, all look at them equally. But to think, at this point in time, that, with all possible and impossible taxes, they burdened Croatian citizens, so I don't see any reason why we have to tax these small profits too, so it doesn't remain untaxable. But it's very interesting that all the people who take care of this haven't thought about solving the problem of Internet betting in the Republic of Croatia. It is far easier to change an article of the law, to agree with colleagues in the ruling coalition clubs they will raise their hands and we expect so much income. Is that right, we'll see about that. See what happened after the change in taxation of 1.4, instead of where the world championship is therefore practically the strongest sporting event in the world and when bookies should explode from the interest of passive players to play in Croatia, there has been a decline in the revenue from betting. Why? Well, there probably wasn't any interest in taxes because of this or that. However, in all the jobs and activities that... live people and sports bookies do some people do this job, receive wages and with this salary support their families. According to the Association of Sports Bookies, so their... assessment that somewhere around 1,500 to 2,000 people could be out of a job. Is that in our best interest, and are we really going to have to patch up the budget holes with everything? And now that you look at this set of laws that we talked about today how many new taxes we have introduced to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and to the entrepreneurs of the Republic of Croatia. So today we've made a decision on practically five new taxes, and when you add together their effect isn't even 500, 600 million kuna. And at the same time, with one move, we took two billion kuna units of local self-government. This is because of a lack of discipline because of the way we cannot possibly agree that, in practice, tax laws change every few months. For this reason, the HDZ Club will not support this bill because if the government was serious about what it would do, it would suggest 1.4, rather than amending this law with its amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92330	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92331	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, we were talking today about this actually yesterday that this government has introduced some 37,38 new taxes since its arrival, today a new three taxes, which further affects one negative climate of any investment in the Republic of Croatia, so if you want this one on gambling. You've noticed and that's what I'm stuck with about that Internet betting isn't going to be taxed and it's actually the betting that's most advertised on TV. And when changes are made and certain laws are complemented, then they are reunited, and I don't know why they do certain selections. And that selectivity is ultimately not good and that's what you've noticed and I'm glad the HDZ Club won't support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92332	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92333	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So one of the basic principles of tax policy is the principle of equality, the principle of taxation according to economic power. Do we respect the basic principle here, the principle of equality? No, I don't. The games of chance are all the same, the income from games of chance is the same. The affinity of those who gamble, who want to gamble, I thank God I haven't paid a single ticket in a sports bookies in my life, is what it is and we can't stop it. But if a tax is already introduced then it should be for everything equal or if it's tax-free then it should be for everything equal. However, today and in taxing entrepreneurs, we have introduced certain differences that will break our heads in the coming years. But the biggest problem is and that's what worries me, that six months ago we discussed this law, the government had exactly the same data as today. Six months ago, it could have been 750 kunas untaxable, and now it can't be 750 kunas untaxable. Or if someone thinks he doesn't have enough money to collect with the taxation of these 750 kunas, the question is whether they're just going to start to get to the few hundred million they're going to take, which is more to say that sports bookies practically pay two types of taxes: one is on payment, the other is on payout.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92334	Young Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92335	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Shuker, here's what you've answered yourself, you've actually asked that hypothetical question, a few months ago we had a debate about this same law, the government had the same data, at the end of the answer hole is too big and it needs to be filled out, then let's fill it out in every way. But we're just now in the process of discussing another law, and you yourself have concluded that tax exemption is no reason for someone to invest. I also believe that this tax burden will not be a reason for someone to give up their hobby, entertainment, or for what. A letter warning the bookies, where they call for example Romania if I'm not mistaken, asked myself as to whether it was calculated, whether it was taken care of, but it's hard to expect that it was taken care of when it was also a flat-rate assessment of how much money it could bring. But what we certainly agree on, that's the problem of Internet betting, and I think that there, I have the impression that no one in the government, or any of those who is responsible, knows this issue at all, and then the simplest thing that I don't know is going on so let it happen the way it happens. I didn't see it, so it didn't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92336	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92337	Thank you, colleague Novak. Well, I guess you should've tried to tax all those who put on games of chance first, then if that's not enough then let's just raise our taxes and catch up with a higher tax rate then I guess we'll pick up what we've had, but I guess we should pick up a full tax base first, which is Internet betting, it's lottery games. I'm not saying that Croatia's lottery should be damaged with this, but simply if they tax one another, they have to tax the other. Another thing, comparing betting and investment in production cannot be done, although unfortunately the situation in Croatia I think those who want to invest in some kind of business and want to invest play the biggest lottery and have the biggest risk, only fear that they too will not be taxed tomorrow because they have been successful.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92338	Deputy Minister Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92339	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here I am, on behalf of the promoter, probably part of my guilt, the 5th, the 6th point we're having, it's a lot of hours, I didn't expect to admit this kind of debate, but just so we're cutting into the beginning of two key arguments, I actually have four arguments, here's one thing about colleagues who have spoken so far. The first is about a possible decline in traffic due to new taxation, etc. The same argument we had here, I remember, I was sitting there in the second row, third left, whether to get to the fall of traffic the same promemory was written by the organizers of these games fortunately. We then introduced the tax on less than 30,000 was untaxable, up to 30,000 kuna and was introduced tax then on profits from 750 to 30,000 kuna for 10%. Traffic didn't fall, so this, maybe Mr. Novak misunderstood me, unfortunately or fortunately, because betting is still a monster and that's why the lottery games, that I'm not going deep into it now, are not in it, and betting is because the lottery's famous win and all the sociological studies say it's different. So they were the same argument that there was going to be a fall, there was no fall. Despite falling economic activity and impoverishment of the population, etc. There's been an increase in betting traffic. The second point was about the calculation, Mr. Schamper was saying, we're perfectly sure there, so what they might be are the aproximative estimates of how much we're going to get from the profit tax, how much of this, what, here we have since the bookies in the fiscalization system have very precise data on that, completely accurate data. And they did most of the share in profits are just these small gains, people bet on petty gains and it's 165 million kuna practically 2/3 wins is up to 750 kuna. So we're here about the distribution of profits absolutely safe and if one impact assessment on the budget is safe, then that's this one. The most common objection was why not online betting and so on. I missed I said, we new law on gambling have written that is just prescribing these sharp measures about banning foreign organisers, so online betting, business on the Croatian market. Domain blocking, IP address etc., etc. is required there. One of the prices of entry into the European Union is notification. So we're the law, the lady told me... as early as the 2nd month we sent it to the European Commission, we're waiting for final approval, there's a lot of negotiations about it. The fiscal rules are not subject to the notification, and that is why we went with this bill both before and now. Unfortunately, the whole law is subject to notification and we will press as much as we can, as far as our administration's capacities are to get a notice as soon as possible because we are aware of the loss and unfair competition made by Internet bookmakers on our Internet market. We know that the state-owned company Croatia lottery also has its very strict rules about its betting, banning foreign citizens etc. I don't want to go any further about it. In any case, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Finance will change this law and, therefore, introduce an even full competition and the protection of domestic entrepreneurship in that point. And the last, slightly demagogue argument, but we are in the process of excessive deficit. Our deficits are very large and according to national methodology and according to the ESI new and old ESI. Our interest cost for the current year is 10.7 billion, which is five days. So this income of 165 million kuna when we make it through the whole year will cover five days of interest we pay on, of 365 as much as we have to pay if we assume we pay them equally. This cost of 165 million kuna is enough for three-and-a-half days to make up pensions from what we have through contributions. 18 and a few billion to a full pension payment of 36 billion, 165 million is enough to make up for the difference for just three and a half days. Mr. Schemper was talking about math, so I took that number to make up for the difference we want through the state budget and we want to ensure that the pensioners have so many pensions. Therefore, giving up any income in this difficult situation is really difficult. If there's one income here, if I may say so myself, which is easier to tax because it's a win. So he's still winning and he's not, so he's out of work. 2200 likes to be taxed, etc. This is still a win, so if people have some gain, however symbolic it is, they still have 90 percent of how much that number is. So, on the other hand, if we have to tax something more, then this is what I'm saying from my shoes is the simplest tax hike. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92340	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92341	Well, very briefly, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy, according to data from the introduction of the 1.4 tax compared to last year's gambling income fell 5%. That's a fact, and you said it wasn't. As long as it's every year, it is, it is. Every year, gambling revenue grew 10% on the annual level. This year, no, no, no. This year since the introduction of a new tax, so a new way of taxing even though we have had the World Cup's revenue from gambling fell 5%. And we can talk now it's not much, it's not like this, it's not like that, but it's a fact. And now that you look at just doing the budget, you'll see the same difference between what was expected and what had happened. But saying that this revenue from gambling is going to make up for one part of the pension I think it's a little funny. I think far more money has been spent. How much is it for those 12 auditions standing in the M.O.P.'s garage? How much did the clin start, how much did the HPB privatisation consultants cost, and we can count 1001 things. But we're not going to go on forever. However, the fact is that this violates the basic foundations of taxation and the adoption of tax laws. And that's something that's not good. We can't totally break up the tax system just for something no one will object to us getting along. No one will object to why the gambling tax has increased except for those involved.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92342	Zeljko Schamper, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92343	Dear Deputy, on this proposal of mine, I just thought it would be more effective if we taxed, for example, a profit of 10 million. If we hit him with 40%, that's 4 million taxes. How many you need on tens of thousands of wins in this group up to 750 kunas from one kuna to 75. ... To tens of thousands of winnings like that, and yet they will not make up for this great amount. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, this proposal of mine, I think it's much better than the one so far, not to tax 750, but to tax these big profits. They don't have that many years, but it's far more of an effect than taxing this group up to 750 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92344	Replication response, Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92345	Thank you. Well, I wanted to answer Mr. Shucker, too, but I could only answer questions. Since he doesn't have a business opportunity, I haven't figured out from his replica, which violates the tax system. But okay, I'll ask him downstairs for coffee if they're still making coffee downstairs. Mr. Schamper, I appreciate it very much. I hope you didn't take it personally, I was just trying to pull the parallel around it, about the income that they are, so I'm not always taking these biggest ones into math. He didn't mean in any way to say that you as retired president don't do it and I highly appreciate your calculations. And here's to publicly commend you on your tax returns on increasing pension relief were even better than the IRS that Mrs... Don't get mad, so then we've done some changes there too. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And thank you for that. Your math is good and excellent, but this distribution tells us, through fiscalization it shows something quite different. The largest distribution is indeed in small profits and these revenues are realised. And as I said, since it's 10% profit, they can still be settled about as much as interest on savings if someone, the minister probably said that in the morning there are 2.2 billion of these 50,000 the richest 2.2 billion interest incomes, and then they won't be hit so hard by those 10%, actually 12% on that amount. What was I gonna say? Your math may be on paper well, but now I'm going to say unfortunately again, or fortunately, I hope I won't be misunderstood without a lot of such gains or almost no 10 million. So if you can rewrite to them 40%, but such gains do not exist or occur once or twice a year. And that's the answer, and Mr. Schucker, why taxes are different, because there were such gains last year. This one's not. On that side we do have a precise distribution, I say through the fiscalization system and traffic has not fallen I say in this regard. I'm saying, around these big salaries, it's like taxing salaries of over 500 thousand kuna with 90%. You can, but no one registers, so there's no income on that side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92346	On behalf of HNS Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92347	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear deputy with associate, colleague and colleague. So, while almost 22.00 hours have already opened up a good debate, let's just say that so public debate, because there is no longer any knowledge of whether there is an opposition or a position but rather of being led realistically by watching expert discussions more than political or demagogues. I am pleased that the Deputy Minister has now presented this fact which, otherwise, says in the documents that in the procedure of notifying the new Law on Games on Happiness, Fun and Reward Games, because it is necessary not only for the sake of this Law on Games on Happiness but in general to regulate not only in the way of the EU but to regulate all these issues in a different way. The HNS Club will vote in favour of this law because, in the extreme case, regardless of the habits, regardless of the situation that citizens have said that they are looking for happiness by trying to solve some problems through the game rather than really because it is moral to tax that kind of way of profit and yet trying to make people who spend it, invest money, try to make more money because they should always appreciate the work and what we did today when we discussed and supported the Income Tax Act and these other VAT laws that we stimulate the economy to pay easier and to provide them with liquidity. What's the problem with this law, and that's why I'm going to bring it out again, and that's the problem we want to avoid, and that's to get a tax evaluation, what's the problem waiting for the notification of that law that should be regulated by the Internet we have the situation, I didn't want to bring to the stage here that a newspaper with an Internet bookshop should not happen in Croatia that Internet bookshops that don't have absolutely no seat in the Republic absolutely don't think that even in Europe they're taxing themselves, to promote, advertise through daily press, it doesn't matter now that in the Republic of Croatia. That's the problem. The problem is these tax ejaculations that can then occur because people are naturally and logically looking for space in which to earn and avoid in quotes "legally", because if it is not prohibited then it is allowed. Therefore, these Internet bookies are a problem because taxes are not paid. It's not a problem if you pay taxes if it's controlled. Deputy you said you have through fiscal cash registers absolutely records and control and that's what's good, which is great. However, we have no control in this second segment, which is just by clicking on your phone, you can do whatever you want and there is no control in the Republic of Croatia and are still advertised. Therefore, while this notification comes, it is necessary to find ways to prevent spillages when people are using gambling to prevent the outflow of funds towards those who do not pay absolutely any taxes in the Republic of Croatia and thereby endanger the jobs of those who deal with it in a legal and prescribed manner. It would be perfectly normal if we could get it all right and then raise our taxes. And that would be normal. Regardless of how much this would bring to the budget for deficits, rather than detimizing on one hand, but we can't raise all these taxes when we have space that they're very simply from their chair in the house can play, and basically we don't have any use of it, but in this way we're probably a little stimulating them to go into that tax evac using Internet bookies. Therefore, the HNS club will vote and support this law because gambling taxation is absolutely necessary and necessary. But we must, on the other hand, if there is strength, and there is always strength for these things, to press both the European Commission and Europe to notify the law and control the websites. I think it is also in line with what is the European Union's declaration, which is the protection of consumers that we have raised to an extremely high level, and we raise them in Croatia not only in the protection of the environment and food but in this segment that is related to morality, which is also related to family problems and especially when further uncontrollably investing it outside Croatia, and nobody benefits from it, literally, except those companies that are online, but where they are registered. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92348	On behalf of SDP representative Ivan Posavec Krivec. Here's Ivan.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92349	Thank you, Vice President, Deputy Minister with an associate. Here at the very end of the debate on this law I may speak from a slightly different perspective. In fact, every topic when we look at it has its own face and face. So every law carries some positive changes, and it always carries maybe something negative and looks different from each chair. I find it interesting to talk about these changes to the law on gambling in the month of the fight against addiction. So you might look at it from that perspective, which in today's society, at this very moment in the great crisis, actually means some last hope of a large number of residents, a large population going to the bookshop, a small amount of payment, and as a colleague said the expected great gain of life. What it means for young people, which means for Internet betting, that is, in what circumstances today we are discussing these little changes that have been brought down through all three articles and that are very simple. In fact, from that perspective, perhaps all of us would say together that we do not have any dilemmas and that, in fact, any betting should be taxed and, in fact, by education, that betting for society, for the community is not always good, and that, unfortunately, there are often many background events in many families and those games that cause accidents, which cause grief in families and which, in the end, often do not end happily, but often have various and violence and all that is not desirable in the community and society. And now, looking from one perspective to another, there's a positive one, and there's a negative one. But at the same time, when we see that the Republic of Croatia is in a situation where we are in an excessive deficit, that we have already launched various laws and referred them to the European Commission and that we expect, in fact, that through different notified laws, we will fix exactly the whole area that concerns gambling, online betting, and when we decide to be consistent with ourselves and what we have drawn first in line, then there are no doubts for us in the SDP club. We believe that everything should be put in the same basket, that everything should be taxed and that, under the same conditions, rules should be applied to the law on gambling. Of course, by looking at the classes and the ones they're talking about. I think that in the end all these remarks that have come and that we all have won will not "do" the fruit because when someone enters the bookshop has their 5 or 10 kuna he hopes to win and at that point it doesn't matter to him, he won't give up betting if his winnings are going to be slightly lower because the state is going to tax him. They'll just expect that win, and they'll still hope for it. So I don't think it's going to be detimulative for the players themselves that they're going to continue to deal with their betting. When we talk about why in one class there are bookies and other lottery games, so I think that everyone here in this high home is very well aware that other than the lottery provides benefits for its players, we also provide large funds for the social community, for useful programs and through the budget we have such funds. So I don't think we can put them in the same relationship. Here's the SDP club fully supports these amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92350	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92351	Final draft law amending the Law on Games, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 729. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote is 89 votes in favour, 20 abstentions and 4 votes against the passed law amending the law on gambling in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92352	And tonight we will discuss: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.721. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Labour, the Pension System and the Social Partnership. You received their reports at the session. And again Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radjenovic will explain the bill to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92353	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here, let me thank all of you who are together with us at the presidential table, for keeping all of these points on the agenda, for more than half the day we've all been here together and here I really appreciate that you've been with us for so long. As promised in the shortest lines here are the amendments and additions to this bill, the packages of our tax changes. The first three most significant changes. First change, technical change in compliance with this law with the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, the law of the Ministry of Labour and the pension system which has two rates of current accounting in one, combined two steps so that it is now common and amounts to 1.7 and we need to coordinate it here and in contributions. The second most significant amendment also to the Ministry of Labour and Pension System initiative as part of the fight against, in fact, the desire to increase the employment of young people, the top topic in Europe. We are one of the countries that also requires improvement at a high unemployment rate. And youth unemployment is the one that is particularly concerned. Therefore, by this proposal of the law, and on an incentive, as I said to the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, we propose that an exemption be prescribed from the obligation to contribute on the basis of the so-called so-called contribution. gross 2, so on contributions to health insurance, health protection at work and employment contributions, for all those employers who are willing to hire people, young people, under 30 years of age, to contract with them indefinitely and that the measure takes at least 5 years from the start of employment. We expect and believe that regardless of the appearance of a negative effect, then on the health budget and on the HZZO budget, we expect that this measure will really encourage and help youth employment, to turn the contract from certain to indefinitely, to give young people a chance to go into life with dignity, to enable them to take certain loans and everything that young people need to get certain security, to design the family and therefore the mass of benefits that we expect from this proposal, even though I say from the point of view of the Ministry of Finance and the State budget, the budget of the Ministry of Health in these difficult times is always difficult to give up, but we count on the measure in the short effects and around it to have a PDF form that colleagues have made, in the medium and long term, will act on the economy as a whole, and then also on the structure of the deficits. And as I promised, the third point and the third change mostly concerns us in the ministry, i.e. In the IRS, but it also concerns our craftsmen. So, we prescribe this bill a new way of normatively regulating the process of payment of contributions, we motivate our craftsmen to, therefore, at the very definition of our tax obligations, it allows us to have a new... pattern, a form that has many benefits, which is not OIB, would also not have been created, and we will also draw new benefits from these two measures that we have kept building all these years, so that on the one hand we have a savings because here we expect, I say that we will simplify the craftsmen to report this obligation, and on the other hand we will save on the very direct line all of our solutions that we issue, so 80 thousand craftsmen, 80 thousand less solutions, and we will save on that side on all other costs, directly and indirectly through the work of the taxpayers themselves, so that we can switch to these tasks that are important to us, and we'll probably do something early in the morning, because we're going to be able to do so on the same point in the same way, and so that we're going to be able to change. Here's so many colleagues and colleagues about this last one, tonight's last proposal for this package of laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92354	Thank you very much. There, the OIB found its place. On behalf of, in fact, will the committee's rapporteurs, to respect the procedure, take the floor? No, I don't. I am opening a debate, on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club – Party of Work, colleague Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92355	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, Deputy Minister with his associates. Here's how few colleagues and fellow MPs are doing. What I would like to say, which is what the Deputy Minister was talking about, is part of the law is technical nature and there are certain improvements, and this is about a unique pattern of taxes, cuts and contributions, and here in the law, savings will be achieved somewhere around 3 million kunas, which is a good thing, there is one part of technical harmonisation with the government's regulation of the Republic of Croatia and, by us, this part is not least problematic to the law. The law on the eye speaks of something that I would certainly support because it says, behold, it will allow young people up to 30 years of employment, to get to the workplace as soon as possible, but the law in itself hides certain dangers, and to this danger I am obliged to and warn and that is in some way the reason that Croatian laborers will remain restrained when it comes to this law, not because we are against the employment of young people, however, we will support every good proposal when it comes to hiring young people, but this law, it hides a lot of illogicality because it will allow a part of the employers to abuse it. Not long, we've changed the Labour Act. By amending the Labour Act we flexible the layoff of workers, we made it possible with the Labour Act for longer working hours in a way that redistributes overtime. Clearly, when we look at it in the context of youth employment, which in this case will be cheaper for employers, then we put ourselves in one situation to make it clear that employers would rather hire these young people to whom they will not, up to 30 years, to whom they will not have the obligation to pay contributions, and to fire those older workers. And we will have one situation that the effects of such a law will not be effective because on the one hand, the number of unemployed young people will be reduced, and on the other hand the number of unemployed who are in older living gains will increase, and most importantly, those who lose their jobs will find it very difficult to get a new job and a new job. Now, all that would be fine if there weren't any other data in the case of employee employment. I've come up with some data, and that's very important when it comes to this law, then in the economy, the average age of workers is 6.3 years smaller than in the state services and the public sector. Practically in the private age of workers is 40.7 years, while in state and public services it is 47 years. Clearly, the effect of employment in the state service does not exist because it is practically spilling from hollow to empty and when it comes to the release of contributions, it can only have the effect of employment in the economy. And what does this information tell us? This information tells us that businessmen employ younger labour, which is precisely in the context of what I was saying when it comes to the Labour Act. Another piece of information that we also need to take care of, which is the number of unemployed at the Employment Office. And now if we take the age structure of the unemployed at the Employment Service, then from 15 to 29 years we have 96,990 unemployed. From 30 to 44, we have 91,667 unemployed, and over 45 years and over 126,513 unemployed. And now that we take what's the risk group when it comes to unemployed, these very older workers are the problem because they are one day when they lose their jobs very hard to get a job somewhere. And most importantly of these effects we will have on one side a burden related to the Employment Service and all that we expect to give this law some positive shifts related to employment on the other hand we will have greater expenditure from the budget and the effect of this law will be very bad. And only in that part is one fact that over 55 years of unemployed are 52,403 and if they look at the age structure now heading towards older workers, the growing part of the number per year of unemployed in the Employment Office is growing. According to these unemployment data, there are latest data that the largest unemployment rate has just been reduced from young people in groups 20 to 24 years 17.5%, from 25 to 29 years 16.1%), from 15 to 19 years 14.3%. The largest increase in the unemployed was also recorded in a 60-year group of 5.3%. Something else with this part of the data we have to say, it will probably serve a part of the statistical figures and we will have a statistically less unemployed, the total number will not change or may change according to the data around the unemployed I must say that in these two years and ten months deleted from the records is at the Employment Office 341,500 persons, in 2012, it was 109.000 either in 2013. 115,900, and for 10 months in 2014 116,078 at the Employment Office. It's just about statistics and about when we say that this law won't do any good. And on the other hand, the health care comes out of the treasure, then clearly these youngsters, too, when they're being treated, etc. Then the cost will have to go directly from the budget for their treatment which is also not calculated into these elements when we talk about the effectiveness of this law. It is clear in the end and to finish it is too late already that Croatian laborers, in any case, when it comes to employment and quality laws, are about to pass laws that will allow young people to enter the labour sphere as soon as possible, but not at the expense of what I was talking about where we will have the situation that employers will have for a cheaper working force for five years to lay off old workers because they are more likely to pay their severance fees to those workers and will still earn money for not paying their contributions. And therefore this law is what it is but Croatian Labourists will be restrained around it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92356	On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Vanja Posavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92357	I thank the esteemed vice president. Dear Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. The SDP Club will support the draft law amending and supplementing the Contribution Act. The Law on Contributions is part of a package of laws aimed at achieving savings but also at strengthening the implementation of an active employment policy. In this law, new ways of determining the obligation of contributions will be laid down for several categories, which are insurance companies carrying out an independent activity from which income is determined by the foundations of the business books by insurance companies carrying out an independent activity from which income tax is paid in a flat-rate manner, other persons from the basic professional status and insurance undertakings from the base of the crew member in international navigation. Since some 65&a insurance companies have been obliged to submit a JOPPD form on the basis of an independent activity established by this activity during 2014 either in the status of the employer or in the status of another person obliged to submit a report or that around 80% of the insurance companies used e-taxed provisions of this proposal of the law, these categories of persons will be subject to the obligation to make their own personal insurance accounts and report thereof. The aim of these measures is to encourage those persons to meet their legal obligations voluntarily, with no additional burden on them. In addition, for other categories of insurance undertakings, the simplification of the procedure for determining the obligation of contributions to insurance undertakings carrying out an independent activity from which income tax is paid in the flat-rate amount and other persons secured from the basis of professional status will continue to be determined by the tax administration's decision. The novelty is that the solution will be issued according to the established insurance status and will be valid throughout the period of insurance. The proposed amendments and additions will result in additional savings related to the printing of the solution to the individual bonds and are expected to reduce the number of solutions of 207 349 for 2013 following the entry into force of this law to around 82,000 solutions which would be printed in 2016 and all other years. Here is also very short, but also the insurance companies from the base of the seafarer, a member of the crew in international navigation is scheduled to issue a solution at the end of the tax period, i.e. the calendar year, and until the issue of the solution, they would pay the advance of the contribution at the level of the prescribed monthly contribution obligation. It is precisely the insurance companies with the basic seafarer that have one characteristic, and these are frequent changes in the status of insurance, as well as short periods of insurance, and this proposal actually facilitates the whole process. It is therefore very important that this law regulates the question of the obligation to contribute to the employment of employers who, in accordance with the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, have the obligation to employ persons with disabilities in such a way as to delete the provision whereby employers of the bonds to pay a special contribution for the employment of persons with disabilities paid at a rate of 1.6%. This prescribes a single rate of 1.7% for all employers. And what is very important for us at the SDP Club in this Law on Contributions, which is that the issue of contributions for young people up to 30 years of life with which the employer concludes a contract of work indefinitely in such a way that those persons will be prescribed only an obligation to contribute to pension insurance on the basis of generation solidarity and contribution to pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings. Namely, the employer who concludes an indefinite employment contract with these persons will not have an obligation to calculate contributions to the basics, i.e. a contribution to health insurance, a contribution to health protection at work and a contribution to employment within a period of 5 years from the start of employment. The fact is that the unemployment rate in the Republic of Croatia in the second quarter of 2014 was 43.9%. Although, compared with September 2013, when the unemployment rate was 48.9%, the Republic of Croatia remains at the top at the unemployment rate of young people in the European Union. In accordance with the recommendations of the European Union, but also in line with the draft strategy for... and the implementation of the active employment policy in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2015-2017, and this is one of the measures that we would strongly consider to help the employment of young people. What's he trying to accomplish? The aim is to achieve the retention of young people in employment, especially those involved in vocational training for work without the establishment of employment, the safety of young people from the position of demographic and social aspects, because employment of young people indefinitely affects the safety of young people in family planning, participation in the labour market, especially those who have not been sufficiently in the education system, or training. In view of the above, the SDP club supports the proposal for a law on contributions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92358	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92359	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. Well, you see, colleagues from the SDP have been satisfied, over 90% have been represented at the club, so that's great. Looking at this law if HZO hadn't gotten out of the treasury then the story would have been completely clean and completely clear. However, here starting with this form of submission itself, etc. and the roles of the Tax Administration since HZZO is no longer a member of the State Treasury there must be defined many things, which is that the Tax Administration is no longer defined for the job. And I'm going to ask an open question here, and I'm going to talk about it when I talk about the budget, and that's the cost of collecting health contributions because it's no longer until the health contribution of the Treasury's income this is a completely different story. The second thing, craftsmen have no salary, generally independent activities have no salary and they have been determined the basis for calculating health and pension contributions and that was either a solution, etc. What does it mean, just a salary bill? It must be defined somewhere below which amount must not be that basis for pension and health. And secondly, I remember the craftsmen were bound to the qualification structure for certain occupations. It has to be defined somewhere. But I'm saying, the moment HZO comes out of the treasure, then a lot of things change, and it's gonna have to change, it's gonna have to be determined. Because I know that some fellow ministers who are not economists think they're making a pattern and they've solved all of us, but it's cost us an enormous amount of all of us, the flat-rate abolition of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance of Farmers, craftsmen and the transfer of HZZO and HZMO to the Tax Administration, they've left an unsettled situation, they've left over 10 billion debts behind. That's why here when we're talking about just filing and just calculating clearly they have to define the amounts. Someone has to say it, some law must define it. So that's it. As regards the contribution to health insurance, perhaps the biggest problem and the greed of fellow health ministers is the Health Act from Articles 72 to 86 where they all thought that my and the SDPs would thus collect 5 billion from the budget and when they add that to the contributions they would get around 24 billion. They'll be big ministers, because health care with 24 billion can work. Therefore, one year’s exemption from a health contribution was a measure of the economic recovery programme and was applied. It's nothing new. It's just something that's extended now. However, I am warning again well-intentioned since HZZO is no longer part of the State Treasury, he has his own financial plan. And that release must be settled in agreement between the Ministry and HZZO. It can't be just, colleague Radjenovic, it can't be defined in this way. Why? Because tomorrow, any minister can start a dispute that someone has to make up for it. Why? Because the law defines a health care law that pays for a health contribution, etc. If health care had remained in the Treasury, then this conversation would not have taken place at all, but would have simply concluded that this measure in principle, when we look at its fiscal effect, is practically zero. Because on the one hand these young people while on the stock market they have health insurance based on the law and that their health insurance is paid out of the budget. Also, as long as they're on the stock market they have some sort of fee and it's also paid from the budget. And when you add it all together and recalculate that health contribution they were supposed to make to the state, then you get to a very small difference. But at the same time you have a pension payment, you have a income tax payment, and then the effect of this whole story on the budget of local self-government units and the state budget is positive. So this measure will ultimately not cost the state. By the way, the state will make a living on it. I mean earn, you stupid term to earn, or so. But I repeat, I warn that we will simply, in fact, government, and we in the Parliament in the future have to act a little differently. Because look, this is an example of both Croatian highways and Croatian roads and DABs and everything. Each of them has its own financial plan. Each one in that plan has defined revenue, and so does expenditure. And we're adopting all these financial plans. So that's the thing that's going to have to be defined, it's going to have to define what the non-payment ratio of that health contribution to this HZZO is. Because I'm saying that part of the Treasury was then so and so what was missing was covered by tax revenues and no one watched how much was collected, how much was spent. As part of the Ministry of Health, he adopted the plan of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and that went well. But I'm saying, this is a well-intentioned warning, because you'll see the next year that story will be around that Treasury and when the story comes from the Minister of Health. Because I know exactly when you look at the article from 72nd to 86th, which is their intention. Oh, no? So, in any case, a positive measure to be welcomed. Because I will always rather raise my hand for one such measure, that those 1500 young people whom the priest in Frankfurt said on Sunday that they had applied as new in Frankfurt, that they would rather stay in Croatia to this extent than go out. Therefore, any measure that will keep any young Croat in Croatia is a measure that needs to be welcomed, and these technical matters will be easily resolved by us. Just because there's a problem and because some things aren't defined in the Tax Administration Act, I think it would be a good idea to put this together, and then make this measure effective. And as I said at the beginning the HDZ Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92360	And on behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, colleague Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92361	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, deputy associate, colleague and colleague. So, I won't be long, but really on behalf of the HNS Club, I have an obligation to publicly say that I support this law and that this is one of those laws in this famous package that we're discussing, where regardless of the recession, the primary objective of this government, which is strengthening the economy, employment, development is being realized. And what I listened to earlier in the debate to support a particular club, measures that help hire young people, etc. But it falls on the burden of the budget, so how do we do it? Well, normally, I mean somewhere, as you say, you take it somewhere, somewhere you do. So, health care like a colleague said if they're on the desk they're also insured. Therefore, if there is a need for a health care service or for the care of the state of pay. But this is directly what goes towards the economy, which is stimulating, which is going towards young people and I believe without, I'm glad that no calculations have been made or amounts to how much they are expected to be particularly employed. I believe that the economy will absolutely react and accept and that young people will really get the space and opportunity to get a quality job with, I remind the law that is in the draft of the Income and Pay Tax Act if they agree in gross. I believe they now have a lesson, to negotiate gross, to make sure that those wages are even higher. This is one big space for the next year and young people to get a job and be happy and the economy to be relieved. With these patterns, it is quite clear what is needed and the aim of simplifying all procedures, to fuck up the system and to eventually discharging the Tax Administration of that classic administrative unnecessary business of issuing solutions, controls and complaints rather than dealing with control and implementation and tax collection. That's it, thank you and good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92362	It's not good night yet. On behalf of the proposer, Deputy Minister Igor Radinovic, final.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92363	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. It's not my wish to be the last, but offered by your debate... Well, you have a chance at a replica, though. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm going to be 30 seconds, so it's going to be a lot of replicas. Offered just by Mr. Shucker's debate and everyone else's, to thank somehow for the support of all the clubs, but just to see about, maybe I was not precise enough. Here's what my colleague explained to me about this self-debt. So based on the basics that are known, solutions have been issued so far, and now only through the JPPD form, as a technical solution where everyone knows the basis they send, and the IRS will only control. I deeply respect your experience, mine is only two months, and it's in touch with both tax and customs, and I'm still learning a lot, and I'm even more forgetting in these two, three months, that you were part of that system but here's the lady... that we have things under control but I say we listened carefully and we saw and if we need anything else about these other experienced and well-meaning tips to see. But I'm saying about this bond register problem, that's what I'm saying. A craftsman who I say is supposed to carry out this self-debt as we have simply called him and at the IRS, we have no problem. That's one motive for this final debate of mine. The second is about this system coming out of the Treasury. Yes, we have already concluded on some committees and plenary sessions that these thoughts are not on the political line, but on this economic and health issue and we have already found ourselves on this. We share, on the one hand we fully respect the Ministry of Finance's desire for the health system to be independent, it wouldn't be the first time. Their one argument is that everyone else is out of the Treasury unless... I'm wrong, if I remember correctly, so that I can function on my own. But a clean bill in that field is very important. And this is exactly what you mentioned, these articles that prescribe to the various regulations that the health budget is being filled and he has not been fully respected all these years. And this reallocation to those ministries that are laying down certain regulations and on this side is due and... the limit and the means to finance certain rights are good, the same principle will be introduced for pensions, i.e. It's part of the Pension Insurance Act. But not for any longer, we'll see how the debate will take place, not with the purpose of other relationships or... funds, but with the aim of pure mathematics. As part of these talks between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance, as part of the Government, the Ministry of Health promised to amend the Pension Insurance Act by the end of this year and to release it from.... And that's where they'll release this funding. And that's the billion that stands. Here it is too late, someone listens, but let them write down that article in 82. We expect it to come before you and you to confirm such a solution, and then it will be easier for everyone to get a clean bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92364	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. My colleagues and colleagues will continue at 9.30 tomorrow. Tomorrow we do not have a vote but we will discuss in a united debate the final draft laws on amendments to the Law on Open and Alternative Investment Funds and the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Administration Act. Then we'll make a deal for next week. Thank you very much and good night. Session adjourned at 22.35 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-20-0.u92365	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 724. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes are 101 votes in favour, 8 abstentions and 2 votes against a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Contributions to the text, as proposed by the Proposer.
