ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77449	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the session. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day I propose to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to supplement the agenda to the point of the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Do any of the MPs object to putting this item on the agenda? There isn't. Thank you. This is an updated agenda and we will immediately discuss this - Proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System has proposed to the Croatian Parliament to draw the following conclusion: On the basis of Article 127, paragraph 2. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are called upon by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to verify the number and credibility of the voter's signature from the request for a referendum submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Organizational Committee of the Civil Initiative, the Centre for Defence of the Croatian Vukovar and to submit the report on the verification carried out to the Croatian Assembly. Does the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system want to explain it? Peja Grbin, chairman of the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77450	Dear Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament held at the 64th session on 9 April 2014 discussed the request for a referendum submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Organizational Committee of the Civil Initiative of the Centre for the Defence of the Croatian Vukovar. The Committee has discussed the request in question on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a home working body which is prescribed that, if requested by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, a proposal for appropriate acts should be prepared. On the basis of its competence, the Committee shall establish the fulfilment of the assumptions set out in Article 87(1) and (3). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Since the current law governing the matter of the referendum in the Republic of Croatia is not prescribed who is carrying out the number and credibility of the voter's signature, the committee is proposing, in the light of the current parliamentary practice, to the Croatian Parliament unanimously, to reach a conclusion, as read by the distinguished Vice-President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77451	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. According to the agreement of the clubs, representatives of individual clubs will speak. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77452	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. We discussed this subject yesterday at the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system and some will be more difficult to repeat in this debate on behalf of the club. We supported that we are discussing this in one positive intention today, which is that the procedure for the signing of this referendum will begin as soon as possible, because all of those procedures that will come to the Croatian Parliament, about three times, we will discuss this in this House of Commons. For the HDSSB club, given the topic and the problem that we have discussed in recent months, it was important, above all, that the point which our club together with the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, 52 signatures that we submitted in September last year, and with the proposal, and this is the proposal for a conclusion on the problem of the establishment of bilingual inscriptions in the city of Vukovar and the application of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. 52 representatives of the Croatian Parliament signed this initiative, unfortunately from September to April 2014 we failed to discuss it. Namely, our position and opinion is that we have opened this topic, the assumptions for dialogue were reached last year in September, there would be no need to gather organizers for these signatures and there would be no such thing, we can freely say the political tension of all these months on a very simple issue. First of all, the Croatian Parliament and the procedure that lasts four months around the process, since the start of the procedure for verifying the signing of the organisers for the question asked by this referendum, is too much time for us and we talked yesterday about this, there are really legal gaps in Croatian legislation when it comes to referendums, referendum issues, deadlines, way of handling the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, the way the Croatian Parliament is acting, it is simply not good that there are solutions that are all but good. Too much time has passed, the tensions with regard to the times behind us, thank God for what is happening in the City of Vukovar without the intention of demeaning anyone or depriving anyone of our rights. Our proposal was to conclude that, on the basis of the dialogue, one part of the law, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, is Article 8, Article 11, at least try to postpone by talking about what was happening in Vukovar. I am sure that Croatian citizens of the Serbian Nationality would not mind at least discussing this problem. It should be recalled that these issues were raised sometime in 2009 when the Statute of the City of Vukovar and all the times that we have been through, which is the recognition of the rights of all national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, which was one of the conditions and in Chapter 23 to complete negotiations for Croatia's entry into the European Union. These are the values of the Croatian state of which no one should or should give up. However, the problem of Vukovar and the assessment of what will happen years after the signing and changing of the Statute, the census, and that I do not go on in history has not been worse than to listen to the opinion of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and in particular do not ignore 630 thousand signatures. Is so many signatures, is or isn't, it will determine the competent ministries, the State Statistics Office, all those who are legally authorized to check the signatures. For us absolutely the Constitutional Court should be included in this, the Constitutional Court is already as guardian of the Constitution as a fundamental legal act of the Republic of Croatia and should be involved, but what should not be allowed and this is, too much time, avoiding debate in the Croatian Assembly on this problem. The chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, Mr. Peja Grbin, is at least responsible "for this situation". We are politicians, some of us with more internships in the Croatian Parliament, some less. The fact is that the problem is solved in a coalition-leading stop, primarily in a representative club, in those parties' bodies, but also in the party's president, the prime minister. We know how the Croatian political system works, not Peja Grbin held this proposal from the organisers in his drawer to the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure, but I will repeat and wish to be polite, not to demean the duties of the prime minister and president of the SDP. Mr Milanovic made a mistake for us that this issue has been open for so long. For lawyers, those dealing with international law, European law, the Croatian legal system, the rights of the National Minorities are not at all questionable that the rights of the National Minorities should be respected. And we are the country that has been through the hardest legal path since the start of negotiations for Croatia's entry into the European Union to date. What are the results of all this, there are other problems that are more crucial, more important than this issue that we are talking about right now. But precisely the revolt of the people who were collecting signatures for this referendum, just refusing dialogue sometime last year before the fall of Vukovar Day led to these 301,000 signatures. For us, Prime Minister Milanovic could have otherwise, he could have received all representatives of the City of Vukovar, suggested that we discuss what is happening in Vukovar, suggest a debate on why this conclusion of ours is proposed to try to discuss this article on 8, 11. The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and simply allow the Croatian Parliament to carry out its constitutional duty, which is to initiate what we are doing today, to re-examine the signature, to raise the issue of debate over this referendum, and in the extreme case that constitutional duty is given to the Constitutional Court as guardian of the Constitution to say whether this is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia or not. That's not what happened. And now that it doesn't turn out that the opposition in the Parliament always calls the prime minister and president of the government and president of the SDP for some moves. For us, what Milorad Pupovac spoke of yesterday on the Committee on the Constitution, about those inscriptions on some portals and the like. Nothing would happen if it were simple in the accelerated procedure, and legal opportunities exist for this, especially for the Croatian Parliament, for the representatives of what we are starting today, that the Constitutional Court of Justice has also announced that anyone who follows the law of the Republic of Croatia, European law, international obligations of Croatia, Chapter 23, knows what would happen to this issue at this time and according to the positive legal regulations of the Republic of Croatia. And he does not need to be ignored, and this has to do with politics in the party of the ruling SDP and whom Mr Milanovic probably had a revolt against the Constitutional Court, and then to the opposition in the Croatian Parliament, and then to the organisers of this initiative, which is to be delayed, to simply leave time and what happens. We think it's wrong and it could have been avoided. If the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, 630 thousand of these signed this should be respected whether they are right or wrong, whether they are right, whether they have the right to do so, this will be said by the Constitutional Court when the subject is a question, a question they have asked. And when the topic is our positive regulations, and our laws, our constitutional provisions they, according to the current Constitution, had the right to do so and it should be respected. We need to talk to everyone, we need to give the citizens of Croatia regardless of who they were asking if they need to ask what they want, in this case they have fulfilled these terms, and the Constitutional Court should be the one to say the last word on this. And what's even more important is the message, and that's something that's probably still going to be discussed. Sometimes if we also know that what certain groups of our society, and this is a very important organization and Croatian defenders, and those who have defended the Croatian state. All those who laid down their lives for a country where we would happily live today should at least listen. No one forced them to stand there in that cold, in the rain to collect signatures so that we could be in the Parliament if we didn't, it would be 4 months or 5, more or less. We should've just taken care of it. And the prime minister as a responsible state, and he is no longer the prime minister of the Kukuriku coalition or the SDP, should be the prime minister of all citizens, he should accept everything and talk, try to at least agree on why tensions occurred in Vukovar and what happened on the day of the wound and the fall of the City of Vukovar. That's not what happened. And I said, I'm not gonna make any noises or raise any unnecessary tensions, we're gonna talk about this one more time. Once again, I warn and call on the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and the president of the coalition's ruling party, it needs a different one. If you want us to be a constructive opposition, if you want us to talk in a way that if there is a problem to try to solve together when it comes to the national interests of Croatia, then you should be allowed when it is required for the Croatian Parliament to fulfill its constitutional role. We are how familiar I am with the only club that sent Mr. Lek the President of the Croatian Parliament an official memo about this item of the agenda, after the Presidency of the Parliament in January. Now, three weeks ago, we repeated that, we asked for a five-minute break and re-sent a memo to the President of the Croatian Parliament, and I'm sure Mr. Leko as a lawyer, as a person who led the Committee of the Constitution to put it on the agenda. Both colleagues and colleagues are not very polite of you to throw when I speak. If we agreed to only talk on behalf of the club and if there won't be a replica, then let me properly finish what I wanted to say. And if you don't, then we'll do it another time. So we also invite the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution and all of you colleagues and colleagues to do so in some reasonable time as soon as possible with the ministries that are competent to speed up this signing check and to open a debate in the Croatian Parliament on this issue. And also that this issue of bilingual inscriptions in the town of Vukovar, which 52 representatives of the Croatian Assembly signed, was signed as soon as possible and that this problem around the city of Vukovar and this referendum should be resolved as soon as possible. Of course, without the Constitutional Court, it will not be possible and we invite everyone to announce this issue after the debate. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77453	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HGS, a colleague of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77454	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In our opinion, this debate should be held at the beginning of February, at the latest in early February, taking into account, of course, the deadline within which the Assembly does not meet, from 15 December to 15 January. And certainly there was plenty of time until the beginning of February to bring, or to prepare a debate on how to initiate this procedure. So this procedure should have started much earlier. This is now actually a technical debate where we decide only to encourage the Government of the Republic of Croatia to check the collected signatures. If we had done this before, we could today and I think we should have discussed the subject of calling a referendum. On that basis, the Assembly should have taken this decision at the latest these days, in my opinion, in accordance with Article 95. Constitutional law on the Constitutional Court that the Constitutional Court may, at the request of the Croatian Parliament, assess whether the referendum issue is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. I think this opportunity should be used and repeated once again to repeat it here, and I believe that the colleagues who will speak after me will also emphasize it, because yesterday there were ideas and suggestions at the Committee on the Constitution that the Constitutional Court would require an indication of the constitutionality of this issue. Only the General Assembly, in accordance with the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of Article 95, allows the Croatian Assembly as a whole to request a reaction, i.e. the Constitutional Court’s statement. Yesterday I also heard in some media reports that the Committee on the Constitution did not do so. The Constitutional Court Committee couldn't do that. So, like I said at this stage, this is actually a technical question. On the basis of this decision, which is certainly of course and political, we will also make political decisions afterwards. But I think that in conclusion after this debate, we must oblige the Government to decide whether a sufficient number of signatures have been collected, or whether a sufficient number of government signatures have been collected within a reasonable period of time. And what would be a reasonable deadline? Well, I think that on the wake of that, we can also determine the time in which a decision is to be made, I think a reasonable time would be absolutely the longest two months. But I suggest that perhaps a small group may be established tomorrow about this and the conclusion of the vote, which will agree on a conclusion in which Mr. Lesar should be a subject on the Committee on the Constitution yesterday. In fact, how many signatures are required. The number of signatures is valid so that the referendum decision can be taken sovereignly. How much is 10%, actually? Is that 450 grand, something smaller, something more than, or about 380 grand? So that decision on how many signatures we're looking for and which in the end the government has to establish, so to determine whether or not there are. Today and certainly in this debate, we would have to agree, or no later than tomorrow, until the vote. Which will then be a confirmation of the validity of the collected signatures for us. So, I propose this only because we would not later open and open new discussions about what the Government has found and that one of us claims the number of signatures the Government is talking about is absolutely impossible to accept, or the number of signatures is insufficient or the government is asking for more signatures than most of us here in the Croatian Parliament consider necessary. These are very simple facts from colleagues and colleagues, and I really don't think we should have a problem about that. One referendum was held relatively recently, we have good experience and I think that the Parliament must at least commit the Government to these two facts. So as soon as possible to determine whether there are sufficient signatures and give a deadline to verify it. Regardless of colleagues and colleagues to our individual, quite certainly different views on the interpretation of the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities, we are certainly obliged and will not extend the debate, but I think it is necessary to say it again here, we are obliged to respect all those decisions and all those obligations we have made in '96. At the beginning of this important road to European integration, therefore, and to the entry into the Council of Europe, here until today, until the entry into the European Union. But equally, we are obliged to respect, of course, all that we have incorporated into the accession contract, that is, a contract that has ended a long, difficult, sometimes painful process of negotiations in the opening and closing of all chapters, and this mother of all chapters, chapters 23, where we have long and difficult to deal with and regulate the rule of law, the judiciary as a whole, the trial for war crimes, but also the rights of human rights, fundamental rights as in Chapter 24, but also the rights of national minorities. So this is something that will certainly be the basis for the debate that we will have in the second step. So we propose to start with this procedure, that we try to take the subject of the referendum and all the events that followed and collect signatures and events in Vukovar yesterday and events in Vukovar on November 18th and events in Vukovar today, try to take off the agenda in a peaceful, tolerated, dignified, but democratic procedure and in the debate and I think that this way Parliament has an obligation to send a message to everyone, including those who agree we have heard these days and some signatures, lists of trade, their owners and do amazing damage to individuals, families, people, their fates, but most of all Vukovar, Vukovar and the Republic of Croatia as a whole. When this process is completed and I therefore appeal that it is going on for a short period of time, that as soon as possible we may have a debate and make decisions in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, however, I believe that each of us is allowed, and during this process, to express very clearly our own views on whether this is the case for a referendum issue in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and all the commitments we have undertaken for ourselves, and not for others. I think it's just as legitimate. We therefore support the procedure and vote for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to determine the sufficient signing and then as soon as possible to the next step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77455	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77456	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. 16 December last year 2013 The Organizational Board of the Civil Initiative "Stor of Defence of the Croatian Vukovar" handed over the signatures of 630 or 650 thousand signatures to the President of the Croatian Parliament with a request for a referendum. President of the Croatian Parliament, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the request for the opening of a referendum with books in which the signatures were handed over to the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system for further proceedings, as was the case several times when they were called, when referendums were attempted. The first time there was a referendum on amendments to the Labour Act and the second time there was this referendum on marriage. Today, on 10 April 2014, since 16 December or 17 December 2013, cca 4 months have passed. Which were the reasons and the reasons that immediately after the President of the Assembly delivered the President of the Constitution Committee to these signatures, the Constitution Committee did not meet, convened the meeting and decided what to do next. So it's been four months. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system could, on the basis of Article 49. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall convene a session and decide on a request for a referendum submitted by this Organisational Committee. The Croatian Parliament, on its proposal to reach its conclusion on the basis of a proposal from the President of the Croatian Parliament and 1/3 of the representatives and members of the committee, must convene the chairman of the Committee's meeting. Why is it that 1/3 of the representatives and committee members have not asked for a committee meeting to be convened and to be convened, and to put this vote on the agenda. Why didn't the President of the Parliament do it himself, according to the express provisions of the Rules of Procedure? Why didn't the Croatian Parliament reach that conclusion at the plenary session. This can only be decrypted by reasons and motives why none of those authorised applicants of the committee's motion to convene a committee session until this four months requested a meeting of the Committee on the Constitution and a discussion of the proposal to call a referendum. The decision and calling for a meeting of the committee held yesterday came only after there was an increased pressure in the first row from the ranks of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, and almost all parties, and on that basis, the President of the Parliament wrote a letter, which is a little unusual in the mutual communication to the chairman of the Committee to choose to call a committee meeting. And only after that was the chairman of the committee called for the session that was held yesterday and at which a conclusion was reached which I, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, fully support and support and I propose that, in accordance with the conclusion of the Committee, the Croatian Parliament make a decision that will give the Government the duty to verify the credibility and number of signatures in connection with this referendum and to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament. The main responsibility for why it waited for 4 months and why many unwanted occurrences and events occurred at this stage of 4 months, which might have been avoided if it had been called immediately at the end of last year for a committee meeting, decided to go into the signing check, check the signatures and then propose to the Croatian Parliament to ask the Constitutional Court for an assessment of the constitutionality of the contents of the referendum issue. So, if it had gone within reasonable deadlines in this way, as it had been in earlier cases, many side effects that occurred during these four months, which had been hard to burden both international relations and which led to very ugly events and which had put one on, threw an ugly picture on Croatia. The crown of this ugly painting in Croatia, which was created by stalling, was what one day was on a portal where one author, a question of whether it was a real person or if it called for a boycott of 35 citizens of Serbian nationality from Vukovar who were invited, so to a boycott that owned or owned by shops, locals, service activities called for a boycott. Boycott, therefore, the Serbs own these bars or shops, to boycott their works and their services. It's either an act of a human and a political idiot or it's an act of a provoker. We hope to determine what's true. But in any variation it is an act, it is a shooting, it is an assassination of Croatia, an assassination of good international relations, an assassination of high democratic standards in the protection of human rights and national minorities in Croatia. It is an assassination of the constitutional order of Croatia. I don't know what'd be worse or better or if it was one complete idiot or if it was one conscious perfided challenger. The truth will come out eventually. But the main responsibility in the political sense of the word is borne by the Prime Minister and SDP President Mr Zoran Milanovic. That he did not create a climate, that he did not create an atmosphere according to which with his famous statements that while he is the Prime Minister that there is no referendum, while he is the Prime Minister that there is nothing the Constitutional Court can discuss, that this should be fought in the Parliament, that this should also be signed that they should be ignored, simply put under the carpet. So, if he had acted in accordance with his constitutional powers and in accordance with the powers he has as Prime Minister and as a responsible politician, he would have simply acted in a way that would have given a political order to the chairman of the board to convene the committee's session and to discuss the issue at the committee's meeting. Instead, my colleague, the chairman of the board, Mr. Peja Grbin, had to avoid journalists for four months, hide, run and seek any excuses why, they invited him why he didn't call a committee meeting? That doesn't make you, I am the one who amnesty him out of any responsibility. He was clear as a conscious and responsible member of his party he stuck to the party president's instructions. But that led him to a very unpleasant position, a very unpleasant situation. But now we need to put it all aside, get out of this proper teaching and act so that as far as possible, these harmful consequences are resolved and that no more standards of human and national rights and freedom are threatened, these high standards. Evil blood should be forgotten and not produced in any way by evil blood both in this assembly and outside of it in political life. And it would be most appropriate for the Parliament today to accept the conclusion and proposal of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, to decide which will refer to the Government to verify the credibility of the number of signatures, whether there are 10% of the electoral bodies. It would also be good and reasonable to what was proposed on the Constitutional Committee that, within one reasonable period, Minister Bauk said that it is a reasonable deadline for him and 2 months to carry out a verification of the authenticity of the number of signatures and that after that verification of the Croatian Parliament in accordance with Article 95. The Constitutional Law shall refer to the Constitutional Court a request for an assessment of the constitutionality or whether the contents of the referendum matter are in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia or not. If the Constitutional Court decided that the contents of the referendum issue were not in line with the Constitution, it would all be completed and there would be no referendum. The second thing was that, in the meantime, amendments to the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court to the Rules of Procedure of the Constitutional Court, the Law on Referendum, which could have been completely legal, constitutionally clarified and clarified by that dilemma which applied from the application of the constitutional provision that the referendum could be called on any issue from the part of the Croatian Parliament. The end of a number of objections and requests to limit the possibility of calling a referendum in individual sequences as regards restrictions or reductions in human and minority rights, national security, budget, elections held by the Assembly. This could all be resolved by amending the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court. Just as amendments to the Constitutional Court Act could be decided that when an organisational committee collects a number of signatures, 5, 10 thousand signatures to send this to the Constitutional Court prior to the opening of the referendum to assess whether the referendum question is in accordance with the Constitution or not. This would avoid any additional collection of signatures, thus avoiding any other procedure than simply a brief procedure by the Constitutional Court to assess the referendum issue is in accordance with the Constitution, continue to collect signatures to a sufficient number or not in accordance with the Constitution, stop because this referendum will not be allowed but will be prohibited.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77457	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77458	Finally, I suggest that you adopt this conclusion and that, after adoption, if it comes to fullness, a credible number of signatures be counted, the Croatian Parliament should then send the Constitutional Court to assess the constitutionality of the referendum issue. Let the Constitutional Court bear its share of responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77459	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists – Party of Work Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77460	Dear colleagues and colleagues, they say democracy is a gentle plant. I would say that the direct democracy in Croatia has only just begun to sprout and just as it springs above the surface of the country we try to rip that germ apart. Why is the Croatian Parliament only today discussing this issue delivered to the Assembly on 16 December last year? Because in our legislation there are no prescribed deadlines for the conduct of the Croatian Parliament when it comes to the will prescribed, by the constitution of the prescribed number of voters seeking a referendum. But there's also what when you don't have the prescribed deadlines for experts and responsible politicians should call for reasonable deadlines. While I am the prime minister of this referendum will not be, it is a quote by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. That's the reason and the only reason we're only discussing this today and we're just offering a half solution. How would the media, the Croatian public and in this Chamber react that the same statement was made by the President of the Parliament, that the President of the Parliament said, while I am the President of the Parliament of that referendum will not be? How is it possible for executive officials to speak publicly about what is in Parliament's jurisdiction? And for this reason, and because of these four months of expectations, difficulties and political unwillingness of decision-making, the Croatian society has split, divided and shared that there has been this level that we have public calls for a boycott of certain services due to the national belonging of the owner. And we must take this opportunity and remind ourselves and I have spoken of it at least 10 times that the legal framework of the referendum decision in Croatia is not well-organised. And now I would dare say that this is intentional so that it could be manipulated by the will of those seeking a referendum. The referendum law had to be passed by April 2011. It was not in the procedure. The warning is that we need to change the order of decision when it comes to the civil referendum and first to question constitutionality of the Constitutional Court, now confirm all clubs of MPs as the only reasonable solution. But then we would have solved another problem if, at the moment of the Constitutional Court and the Organizational Committee, they knew how many signatures they needed to be collected for the initiative to be valid. Today we are having a debate and tomorrow we will vote on a proposal for a conclusion in which the Parliament asks the Government to verify whether a sufficient number of signatures has been collected. How much is that? What number of signatures are valid to consider this initiative met the conditions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Is it possible that the Parliament doesn't know the number of signatures needed for the initiative to be valid? If the Parliament does not know that, I ask how the Organisational Committee or a group of citizens for a future referendum can know how many signatures they must collect for the initiative to be valid. And that's the consequence of the constitution's 10% voter provision. And in the meantime, there's been a change in regulation, and we have a list of voters, so we have a register of voters. And every time there is a new political dispute in how many signatures it takes to make the initiative right. In the Croatian public, here in the Parliament, several serious analyses have put it in the media, doubting whether a referendum issue has been asked or proposed is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Next, I noticed, especially back 10 days and a lack of public calls from various civil society organisations and some state officials to the Croatian Parliament to stop the referendum. Probably in the best sense and desire to defend the country's constitutional values, such calls came. But they're on the other side of the strike on the constitutional order of this country. For in the laws and in the Constitution it is clearly prescribed, not today, not yesterday, but recently, and those who participated in the writing of such provisions and the Law on the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court do not understand that the Assembly does not have such power. And calling the Parliament to stop a referendum without addressing the Constitutional Court is also harmful to the further development of democracy and we are sending a false message to the citizens of this country. Because it is our obligation to give clear instructions to people who decide what in this country in Croatia is and who is the one who can declare this and this is the only one who does not comply with the Constitution. We can express our suspicions, we can express a personal opinion, a personal opinion, but it is only worth what the Constitutional Court ultimately decides, and therefore I find it harmful that the Parliament is publicly called to stop the referendum. And each time, in every future initiative in Croatia, it will be those who oppose the referendum initiative and then always the Assembly will be called for various reasons to stop the referendum. We have another option, to amend the Constitutional Court Act, to delete the powers of the Constitutional Court to decide and to move it to the Assembly, but so long as we have such a legislative solution, the Assembly can only ask for an assessment of constitutionality, but not to give a qualification of the asked question because this is how we prejudge and enter into the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. The constitutional changes that were in the procedure are gone or at least gone. This is not the reason, and I am addressing the clubs of the ruling majority to invite the Government to propose a referendum law to the Croatian Parliament, to amend the Constitutional Court Act to regulate these shortcomings as soon as possible, to introduce deadlines for clear powers and to avoid future situations like we have today. I'm not satisfied with the proposal for a conclusion. If there is a public suspicion of the constitutionality of the issue, and I have not heard of having problems with whether a sufficient number of signatures has really been collected, experience has so far been telling us that approximately 10% of the signeds submitted have been disputed, why are we going first to create a cost to the state to verify the number of signatures, rather than to solve the dilemma of constitutionality of the issue? First of all, why do you want to check who has expressed their suspicion, on behalf of whom, when, and where, when, where, where, when, where, where, when, where, where, where, when, where, where, where, when, where, where, when, where, where, where, when, where, where, where, when, where, where, where, where, when, where, where, when, I haven't heard from anyone, no one has said so far that they suspect that a sufficient number of signatures have been collected and I suggested yesterday on the Constitution Committee when it is already insisted that the government be given the task of checking the number of signatures to enter into the conclusion proposal and the formulation to do so within a reasonable time. It's not accepted. Yesterday, the Constitutional Committee did not accept the proposal. My colleague Kosor repeated this proposal today, and I repeat it again, if we do not have the courage to set such a deadline as the Government's Parliament, then the question is, who does it really suit for his work. And finally, I proposed yesterday, and I suggest again, why not also come to the conclusion that the referendum issue of the Croatian Parliament is sent to the Constitutional Court for the assessment of constitutionality? Why do we have to discuss this again in the Croatian Parliament? How many times and in what circumstances will we give cause... to divide deep divisions in Croatian society and new reasons for questioning the cause, motives and reasons of some initiatives? But obviously the political decision is so strong that both yesterday on the board and in the Assembly, such a decision cannot be made. And I only have one little surprise. All my predecessors have declared that once the Parliament has received a response from the Government on the number of signatures and confirmed that it is a sufficient number of signatures because we don't know how many signatures we need, we're practically asking that the government tells us how many signatures we need. You've all expressed hope that the Parliament will then decide to send the question to the Constitutional Court because you're very certain. Are you really sure that the ruling majority will then decide that the question is being sent to the Constitutional Court if it is not ready to do so now? And if she wasn't ready to do it for the past four months. I am expressing a large reserve against the political decision that after two or three months of counting, a proposal will come to the Parliament to go to the Constitutional Court with a question and I am afraid and now publicly express my fear that the proposal will come to the conclusion that the Parliament refuses to call a referendum because it considers the issue against the constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77461	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, colleague Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77462	Dear Madam Vice President, the esteemed Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. We heard from fellow Lesar that democracy is a botanic issue and a question from the Hortic culture domain, which it sometimes is. Listening to my colleague Shex, I realized that democracy is actually a sentimental issue because when you have positive emotions for your boss, then you have to have negative feelings for someone else. It's easy to criticize someone else's boss, but I think... democracy is about criticizing your own. And in this thing, of course, it's not really worth everything, but there aren't many innocent bosses in this thing. There are no innocent bosses. There were more bosses who supported the headquarters atmosphere in Croatia under the company of democracy and the heads of Prisavlje and the heads of Mark's square and sentimental bosses towards democratic freedoms of expression on other hills. And what was meant to be, of course, was the least of it, as is the least of it today. It is easy to determine that someone may have done something wrong out of good intentions or good goals. So it's possible that our prime minister wasn't always doing what he thought was a justified policy but whether he was the only actor on the political scene, whether he was the only one who created the atmosphere in the country, whether he was the only one who reached out for violence in this country and who shouted anti-civilisation, anti-civilisation and anti-Serbian messages. We heard them from the greatest places, from the altar of a church. And if you want to silence someone who speaks the same freely, you can. Enough to knock twice more, and I'll stop talking. But I still, me in that deal, okay. Dear Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. This thing certainly deserves a different relationship than we had a year ago and a few days ago and we have it today. And the only thing that's good is that we seem to have agreed to refer this thing to the procedure as provided for by the law, and that means counting the signatures, establishing the invalidity of the signature, and then then making a decision to refer to the competent place, which is regardless of the differences that exist between us in terms of perception, which is the Constitutional Court. Although I would tell my colleague Lesar that when there was a debate here a few years ago about the referendum initiative on the Labour Act then he had a slightly different attitude, he was sitting up for a row further than he is sitting now but he was just as active as he is right now. I was sitting here in front, first row, and I was just as active, but unlike him, I had the same attitudes as I do today. He then spoke of let the Parliament decide not the Constitutional Court and Mr. Shakespeare said no to the Parliament but the Constitutional Court was more opportunistic and then ultimately more useful because the Constitutional Court always knows how to say what was right. At least that's how we used to listen to it with all due respect to the Constitutional Court. And Lesar's colleague spoke not of the Constitutional Court; this is what the Parliament should say of itself. Today, the Assembly should not say anything but should say the Constitutional Court. Today, of course, we don't want to get involved with Cyrillic torment, but eventually if we can get a little bit of piss on that story by watching how the electorate is divided and who has the kind of sentimental not some botanist, not what kind of sentimentality there is, how much is who for Cyrillic and how much is who against Cyrillic? And I want to tell you from here on out of this pay phone no matter how old I can get to Cyrillic is the last thing we need to care about either in a positive or negative sense, because sentimental identity policies must have been enough in 20 and a few years in this country, I guess there's been enough increase in the number of unemployed, probably enough of this country's foreign duties, I guess there's enough independence left of this country, that we're not going to allow ourselves the luxury of staying in that story alone, and that's that we're arguing where any board can be placed this or that language or written tradition. That's our problem, colleague and colleague, but we know it. We know we speak for a country that's getting hungry. We know that we speak on behalf of a people who are increasingly unemployed, we know that we speak in the name of a people in which we make fewer decisions and someone else decides but there is a Cyrillic left to show that we have more to decide about. We still have Cyrillic left to show us what we're fighting about. If that's all we've got left, we've really little left. And please find a little better battlefield than that. There's nothing to fight about, there's things more or less clear but let's deal with what's the vital problem of this country and that's intolerance. It's not a problem, it's not the headquarters, it's not the media, it's the problem. We're the ones who tolerate it and make political points on it. It's not a problem, it's not our debt or media inscriptions or what my colleague Shakespeare calls either idiotism or perfidious planting, but our closing our eyes to the problems we have in this society, and the problems are other species they're not identical, they're neither botanistic, nor sentimental they're existential. It is about the survival of every new generation in this country and it is about the survival of this country in which we will not ask the question of how many Cyrillics can be in this country but how many languages we speak tomorrow, in 20 years' time, in this country. But, of course, our patriotism doesn't allow us to think of it, so patriotism doesn't allow us to have that possibility involved, and it is, and we are already on autopilot when it comes to it, and you're just wasting time on Cyrillic and Milanović, as someone else used it on Kosorica at the same time. But neither Milanovic is the biggest problem in Croatia nor Kosorica was in time, we are the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77463	Tell Mrs. Kosor, not Kosorica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77464	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77465	Thank you, too. On behalf of National Minority Representatives Club, counterpart Nedzad Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77466	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. A fellow Pupovac actually started a topic that I wanted to get involved with, which is that I'm not worried about, we're going to satisfy the procedure, we can't without it. Democracy is a matter of procedure and it will be done. What worries me is the awareness of those who have signed therefore 650 thousand people signed that a letter should be raised in this country. In a neighbouring country, after the terrible war and genocide that took place in Srebrenica, after such an evil I will ask you here a question, have you ever heard anyone from Srebrenica problem a Cyrillic letter? You didn't hear that because Cyrillic, Latin, Arabic, or any language or any letter has never committed any evil but has only enriched every man. Crimes should be prosecuted and criminals punished, and the wealth of every letter given to every citizen of this country. Don't do it anymore, one bad atmosphere has been created so far, this country will once again be like a parrot here again achieved all the political goals. A standalone, sovereign, NATO pact member, within the avni borders, EU members, a country of economic well-being and a country of legal certainty and equality of all citizens. There are two only two political goals that can be crossed here by spears. On this trail, we are getting worse, especially in this economic segment, even if this legal certainty is to say that it is stronger, but let us talk about it in this House and let them create topics to face here on the left and right options to face economic programmes, to talk, argued about something that this country is going to get out of trouble, not to keep wasting time. And trust me, from here on out of these benches, we're poisoning the public with topics that absolutely don't matter. And I'll just say for the end, when the people of the Croatian Vukovar Defence Staff tried to question us at the entrance to the Parliament, I asked one question about what the national colors of the Croatian state are. The football players are wearing some kind of square uniforms, not some kind of thing. ... I'll repeat, football players wear various variants of Croatian uniforms, I'm not talking about the flag, but I'm talking about uniforms designed in one way or another, and they're always in this design of the historical features of this country, including the coat of arms, of course, which no one denies the boards and the dice. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] This country has its own flag of colors on that flag. My question was why are you gentlemen from the Croatian Vukovar Defence Station in black T-shirts? There was no answer to that. That's why I call on you to talk in this country about essential problems, to get this country out of the economic crisis for the sixth year in a row of economic tones. In a moral sense, I think we've been sinking in some segments for a long time and let's talk about the right things. And of course this about the club's position is procedurally going to do everything, for me it's unacceptable to even go to a referendum on Cyrillic because of course I think that this issue is against the constitution as it is and it's not going to happen, but I call on you once again to do everything we can to make this country go in the right direction. I think what we're breaking into is about energy and water even deeper break-ins.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77467	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77468	Dear Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to start with one fact that we may have lost sight of, not just today, but in all these few months in which we discussed this referendum. This is not a referendum on Cyrillic, this is a referendum on one aspect of protection or the rights of all national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, and this is the right to use your language and letters in public life. This referendum affects all citizens of the Republic of Croatia belonging to a specific national minority. And that is why the position of us from the parliamentary majority is, and I am convinced when people think about it intimately and the position of all parliamentary representatives that this referendum is not allowed. And it is not allowed, among other things, because we have committed ourselves to such a thing when we decided to join the European Union. In particular, by joining the European Union, we have taken the obligation "to strengthen the protection of national minorities and effectively implement the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities". The effective implementation of the Constitutional Law on National Minorities and strengthening their protection is not a reduction of their rights, i.e. raising the limit for the use of the language and letter of the National Minorities in public and political life. That's why we find this referendum unauthorized. And it is our desire to do everything in our power to prevent it. And what is in our power? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The constitutional law on the Constitutional Court and the decisions made by the Constitutional Court regarding the last referendum we had in the procedure, it is clear that there are two things in our power. It is one thing to call a referendum, the other to ask the Constitutional Court whether a)referendum is permitted, Constitutional and b)if its assumptions have been fulfilled, or whether the assumptions for the opening of the referendum referred to in Article 87(1) and (3) have been met. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In order for us to do this we must do two things, first it is to send the Government signatures to control, to determine not only for us but also for the Constitutional Court to control tomorrow whether a certain number is indeed a number, and that is 10% of voters in the Republic of Croatia, indeed requested that this referendum be called. That's the first thing we want to do today. The other thing is to decide whether we consider this referendum allowed or not? We believe that it is not and because it is not and we believe that you will all support us in this, and because we do not have to ask the Constitutional Court clearly that he also reassesssss it and confirm that our position. There's no doubt about this. This is the procedure that's prescribed, the others are gone. Part of it is also written in the Constitution, the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, the Law on Referendum, we created part through the work of the Croatian Parliament through parliamentary practice. And finally, I was hoping that this debate would be held today in the context of the proposed conclusion, that we would not enter into politicisation, that we would not mention the presidents, this one or the third political parties, of course that hope was obviously not in place, we did. Then I need to talk about it too. And I will talk about the responsibility, the responsibility that we have assumed in power, the ruling coalition, and the responsibility that it has assumed, and above all, one part of the opposition. What have we taken from the ruling coalition as a responsibility, and what is ours to say about guilt? It was our responsibility to implement the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the Accession Treaty or the European acquis. And that's what we did, and that's what we plead guilty to. The opposition's responsibility was to show us where we were possibly wrong, not why we were attacked. Not on Sunday to sign one thing and talk to the other on Monday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77469	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the proposal for a conclusion tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77470	My colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats so we can conduct the vote. My colleagues and colleagues, I will now call the Parliament's professional service to let us know if we have a quorum, how many of us are there? 96 deputies and MPs are in the hall, we've got quorum, we can make a soft decision first, and we'll go to the vote. First, the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on the Constitution, I am calling on the Rules of Procedure and the political system to vote: "On the basis of Article 127, paragraph 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is invited to verify the number and credibility of the signature of voters and the request for the opening of the referendum submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Organizational Committee of the Civil Initiative of the Defence Department of the Croatian Vukovar and to deliver the report on the procedure carried out to the Croatian Parliament." Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find it unanimous with 99 votes for an accepted conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77471	We will discuss: - Proposal for a decision on the selection of the Deputy Advocate General of the Police is the Proposer of the decision by the Advocate General on the basis of Article 12(1) of the Rules of Procedure. The law of the Attorney General. You've received the motion for an act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the report at the session. The decision will be explained to us by the president, i.e. the Ombudsman Ms. Lora Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77472	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. In accordance with the university protocol, in addition to the Convention against Torture and other cruel non-human or humiliating procedures in Croatia, the Law on the National Prevention Mechanism for the conduct of NPM operations was entrusted to the Ombudsman and Croatia has made sure that all necessary means for the functioning of the NPM are available. Guidelines for national preventive mechanisms of the Sub-Committee for the Prevention of Torture of November 2010 in cases where the body carrying out NPM tasks also performs other tasks such as those in Croatia. It is necessary to establish a separate organisational unit for NPM operations that will have an independent service and budget. Later recommendations from international organisations and bodies also require adequate strengthening of the NPM, and the report, which the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture, i.e. the SPT of 2012, assesses the teaming of the office as insufficient, and notes that the extension of the mandate of the Ombudsman to NPM affairs did not follow the organisational and other strengthening of the office. In addition, the UN Anti-Torture Committee also asked Croatia to provide information when reporting compliance with the Convention, whether the necessary resources were provided for the performance of NPM operations, and whether human, technical and financial resources needed to exercise this power were provided in the Ombudsman's office. Following these international obligations and recommendations from the body that I have listed and other Rules of Procedure of the Police Advocate of 2013 established a service for persons deprived of liberty and a national preventive mechanism, but since no funds were provided in the State budget for 2013 was appointed as deputy for the handling of this service, i.e. to carry out NPM operations. Also, as the Rules of Procedure stipulates that the deputy attorney generals manage one or more services, this deputy will manage the General Affairs Service. Since the 2014 Public Prosecutor's Office has been provided with funds for this purpose and based on Article 12 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Law on the Advocate General, a public call for the election of the deputy attorney general, was published in National No. 11 of 29 January 2014, to which 17 candidates applied. One of the candidates was off-limits, and one of the candidates gave up. With the remaining 15 candidates, I conducted interviews after which I proposed to the Croatian Assembly that Mr. Marija Kresic be appointed as deputy attorney general. Mario Kresic graduated and doctored law, with a degree in politology and has several years of working experience in the rule of law in international institutions, in state bodies and in NGOs. He was a consultant in the Croatian Parliament and in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, he was head of the cabinet, then special adviser to the Minister and Head of the Department of International Co-operation of the Ministry of Justice and legal adviser to the U.S. Department of Justice. He was chief technical adviser to the UNDP judiciary, including the development, management and implementation of projects related to the development of systems for support for victims and witnesses, strengthening the capacity of the Office of the Police Attorney, support for the prison system and others, and currently works as a senior assistant lecturer at the Faculty of Law at the University of Zagreb. Mr. Mario Krešić speaks English and French, he has completed numerous additional educations in the field of human rights and justice, diplomacy, project management, management, he has written numerous articles and documents, and his entire resume has been delivered to the Croatian Assembly with a proposal for a decision on appointment. For all of these reasons, I believe that he is the best candidate for this place and I suggest that the Croatian Parliament appoints him as the deputy attorney general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77473	Comrades and colleagues, if you are not listening then please speak outside the hall, please. Vice President Zeljko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77474	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, Madam Attorney General. I actually have one question for all of us, not to Mrs. Regiment's Attorney General. With all kinds of bizarre things about our work, and this is one. We have chosen the attorney general at our time under the election, appointment and resolution, amongst other things, and now we have a special point for the deputy attorney general. It doesn't seem very appropriate to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77475	You know we chose between multiple candidates by a secret vote. Does a representative of the board want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, counterpart Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77476	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I would agree with what Vice President Reiner has now said is that the election point for the deputy attorney general has a separate point. If you remember when the elected lady's attorney general was elected, then we asked about it to be a special point, but no, it went under the selection and appointment point. ... I think there is still a reason in something else, which is why many colleagues and colleagues have said today, that we simply do not have the material to discuss in this Croatian Parliament, which means that the Government is not sending new legislative proposals and we are trying to discuss it in a way that we have not done so far so that any of the proposals that the opposition has adopted in the legal form came on the agenda and that we do not discuss it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We think that's the reason. On the other hand, as far as this particular proposal is concerned, we are surprised that it was not the Committee on Human Rights that expressed its opinion or interest in selecting a deputy attorney-general. We think that this would be very instructive and that this time, in some way, he skipped to adopt an opinion concerning his own cleavage, which is more so because it would be the same analogy as in the election of a female attorney. We also believe in the best intentions of believing that it is a quality person. I specifically point to a public call where it is stated that this must be a prominent expert who enjoys the reputation of a person of high moral principles and protectors and promoters of human rights and freedoms, or the rule of law. I hope that's the way it's been read. But why does it matter to us? Because lately, we have often felt that this is how we are coming into the situation that also the function of the Ombudsman of the Human Rights Council, or human rights defenders, has been politicized. We often have opportunities to hear in public statements or attitudes about the threat, and very rarely we have opportunities to hear opinions about the threat of the elementary human rights guaranteed in the Constitution, such as the right to work or... pay. We haven't had a chance to hear that before, and unemployment probably unfortunately, for all of us, keeps growing. We had the opportunity to hear... a referendum that launched the In the Name of the Family Initiative about the proposed definition of marriage that it wasn't constitutional, although it can only be said by the Constitutional Court, and it was in some way to conform to one citizen's option against another civil option. What has hurt us several times in some way and we have repeatedly protested in this Croatian Parliament, which is about voting law. Soon we will also have elections for the EU Parliament, which is the regulations governing the obligation of Croatian citizens to have prior registration in order to exercise their right to vote, regardless of what is guaranteed in the Constitution in Article 45 above all 18 years of age by general and equal voting law. This is what we think that from the position of the Ombudsman, we could also react, and in some ways we want to believe that these personnel fills will also be introduced in order to result in improved work in these segments because only so generally said and this choice makes sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77477	Thank you, too. But not to make it clear, the Board of Selection has appointed a parliamentary body. This is where I read that the draft attorney-general is the basis of the law and cannot propose it by our Board of Selection, appointments as he could not propose to the lawyer. So it couldn't have been under such a point. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the motion for a decision later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77478	Third, a proposal for a decision on the election of the deputy attorney general. The debate is closed. I am voting on a motion for a decision on the election of the deputy attorney general. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. 77 votes in favour, 25 votes against, and I find that the decision on the election of the deputy attorney general in the text has been adopted as proposed by the proposal. We'll move on to making an oath. In accordance with Article 13, the Law on the Ombudsman, the deputy attorney general before the entry into office, shall be sworn before the Croatian Parliament. The oath shall be given in a way that the President or the Chairman shall read the text of the oath, and thereafter, when the Deputy Advocate General has been called up and pronounced, I swear. The text of the oath reads: "I swear that in my work I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order of the Republic of Croatia and that I will do my duty in a just, honest, conscientious way in the best interests of the citizens." Deputy Attorney-General Mario Kresic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77480	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77481	Congratulations. I congratulate the deputy attorney general on his election, and I wish him success in his work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77482	We move to - Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency The Proposer of the Decision is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. On the basis of Article 29(2) of the first Act on the Protection of Personal Data. You've received the motion for an act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the report at the session. Does Minister Bauk want to explain? He does.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77483	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, very briefly. The government of the Republic of Croatia proposes Mr. Ante Rajkovac as Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency. It's a long-standing civil servant, working at the Ministry of the Interior. He's at the state company AKD today. Given the agency's part-round, especially in light of the adoption of the Law on the right to access information where the Agency can be more concerned with the protection of personal data, we think that Mr Rajkovac will behave well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77484	Does a representative of the board want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Martina Banic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77485	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I will talk very briefly about this topic and the selection of the Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency. Very often when we talk about state agencies, we hear that there are too many of them, that they employ too many people, that they have too many salaries compared to other employees in Croatia, and that the public knows little about what their goals are and what the agencies are actually doing. They are often resented and lack of transparency. Also, media very often mention agencies that many don't even know exist, and even less know what these agencies might or should be doing. Not long ago, in the analysis of the Institute of Finance, we could see that less than 30 agencies submitted financial reports. Such data certainly do not contribute to the work of the agencies. My colleagues and colleagues, today when we discuss the appointment of the Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency, I would also like to say some information about the agency itself. The Agency for the Protection of Personal Data is independent, independent in its activities and responsible for the Croatian Assembly in the protection of two extremely important human rights. One is the right in which data security and confidentiality are guaranteed, and the other is the right to access information. I would therefore like to stress today that it is not clear from the very name of the agency that the agency is also concerned about the protection of the right to access information. This should be more visible and clear, because it is equally about the important Constitution guaranteed by law. I believe that many of us agree that the rights mentioned are often underprotected. I would dare say and threatened, and that many citizens who face such problems do not know where and how to react. The Croatian public is not sufficiently familiar with these areas, and it is necessary to continue activities in this direction. Citizens must be educated on the protection of personal data, i.e. they need to be given information to whom to contact for the protection of their personal data and which procedures and mechanisms are available for their protection. The same goes for access to information. There is a significant increase in complaints about the Law on the right to access information from year to year. I will also mention some information that makes it clear how many citizens are confronted with the abuse of personal data on a daily basis. For example, traffic accidents often involve law enforcement calls for a family home from which someone was injured or just involved in the accident, offering their services long before family members even learned about it. Also, it often happens with car insurance to call us on our home numbers, offering us insurance. I don't know how they know our security is running out. I wonder, so where did they get that information, from where the girl's data came from? Not to mention children who are too often exposed to data theft especially through social networks. I believe that we all agree that it is important to educate children and minors about the importance of personal data, but it is also important to protect them in order to at least in the future avoid unpleasant situations especially through social networks that we have already talked about here several times. We know that the number of users of social networks is growing from day to day, and that a small number of users are network users who are aware that this service have given consent to their personal data being used, stored, processed, and often sold for money. Friends and colleagues, today we have all become addicted to all possible online services that make it easier for us to access information, the possibility of carrying out money transactions, buying, selling, negotiating jobs, meetings, entertainment or socializing. Most of us use all the Internet opportunities. We no longer wait in line to pay our bills, buy clothes and shoes via the Internet, and thus communicate more and more with each other. The Internet becomes a place where everything is available. That is why more caution is needed, especially for young people or parents to teach children not to contact strangers, not to share their private content with the entire online community. We should send a message to the children that it is important to take care of personal data, but not only of our own, but also of someone else's. My colleagues and colleagues aren't just our online data being compromised, using our phone numbers, addresses and mail, pay data and so forth. Every time we give someone a copy of a personal card or any other document with an address or any other personal data, we put ourselves in danger because it is possible for these data to be misused. For all things, it is necessary to strengthen awareness of the responsibility and preservation of your own intimateness and to strengthen citizens' awareness of the existence of human rights, the right to privacy, which must become a generally accepted principle of work for all who collect, process and transfer personal data. Among other things, I see the role of an agency that has not done its job enough. That's why it's surprising that since mid-June last year, the agency hasn't had a director. New agencies are established whose purpose is often not recognized, and agencies whose work is the insurance and protection of personal data and private life of every citizen of the Republic of Croatia are so long without a leader. We know why the former director was relieved, but it's not known why he hasn't proposed a new director in so long. Finally, I would like to point out, my colleagues and colleagues, the real need for further information on the work of the Agency is because while Croatian legislation on the protection of personal data is in line with international conventions and EU legislation, what needs to be given more attention in further work is to get to know citizens more specifically with the work of the Personal Data Protection Agency and in which more supervision is certainly necessary. And that is why we expect a stronger message to be sent to citizens in the future, especially to children and young people, how important it is to take care of personal data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77486	Dubravko Bilic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77487	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here I would actually look back on two things in the presentation of my colleague Banic. I am pleased to know that the importance of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data and its work is recognised, especially in the time in which we live today, and here we will soon celebrate the 10th anniversary of the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data which has indeed done a lot to raise awareness of the public and to point out many problems related to the protection of personal data. Some were also pointed out by counterpart Banic. And this second part, in fact, that I would like to point out that at the end of October last year we elected the Commissioner for Information to Mrs Anamarie Musa, so here it is, so we have two, two offices, two agencies for the right to access information and the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data and Mr... The proposed candidate for director will deal only with the protection of personal data. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I personally think that this is good because this area is particularly important, especially in protecting the personal data of children and young people who are all on the Internet via mobile devices, by means of computers and really need to take care of their protection within the school system as well as within the family. I think that the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data is one of those agencies that really has an important mission in Croatian society but not only in Croatian society but also within the EU, especially calling for this digital agenda that is waiting for us all together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77488	Martina Banić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77489	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Bilić, I absolutely agree with you that the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data has an important mission and not only in Croatia but also beyond, and that is why I have been troublesome and asked a question and in fact said in a way that I cannot believe that one such agency has been without a leader for so long. I don't really know what the explanation is, but maybe we'll hear it today during the debate from Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77490	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77491	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues in your debate have pointed to a number of problems being done and being manipulated by personal data, you have pointed to the problem of children but I think that adult education is also very important. Here was recently a good show about buying online and searching for our personal data from different but also hacking in that sense. But you see, this little report, unfortunately, wasn't initiated by this Personal Data Protection Agency, but was initiated by the Consumers' Association, or by a show called Consumer Code. I personally think that in that whole story the agency should work much more on education, that it should give a lot more information to all of us that here at all 10 years has passed, but to ask someone downstairs today I think that every 125 would possibly know about this agency and at all how a man can address that agency, what that agency can do to him and how it can help him. So I agree with you that children are, as always, the most endangered, but I must say, it's probably because parents, or we, are adults, and we often fall for different traps in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77492	Martina Banić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77493	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade twilight, I fully agree with you that the agency's work is simply not visible enough. And when we discussed the 2012 Agency's work report two or three months ago in this House, some of our colleagues said they had particular problems on social networks so they didn't know who to address. So here's what if we in this House don't know what the role of the Personal Data Protection Agency is, then it's much harder to expect some other citizens to know that it's not that much in their focus and in their interest. You mentioned your parents' education. I think it's very important. I mean, adult education is important because of their own but mostly because of their children. Today it happens that children are much more educated in terms of social networks and new media than their parents, and that is why they get in and out of trouble, and so I think that the agency should engage more in this context to help parents and children.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77494	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77495	Thank you very much. My colleague Banic, I'm going to topple up on that part of your establishment to start new agencies. That's true. Almost every session of the Parliament, we set up a new agency, and it has already become alarming. I suppose you certainly don't know what the salary of that future director of that agency is, probably knows Minister Bauk. It's always interesting, I hope that he will give us that information because Minister Linic threatens daily by cutting those salaries, it is constantly withdrawing. But it only happens the other way around. More agencies are being set up and more personnel are being taken care of. And it is alarming that Minister Hajdas Doncic's announcement that he will now connect the agencies to the Hakom Railway Agency and the Air Safety Research Agency in this section. That's very worrying. And it all started with Dinko Vodanović's shift, the only expert we had to investigate the plane crashes. Then Minister Hajdash put some of his pals in there and now we've got a problem with international associations. They're threatening to kick us out because we don't have enough expert personnel inside that agency where all the executives have changed. And I am really interested in how this will work and how this agency will be able to work when rail traffic is monitored at the same time, will monitor the work of all telecommunications operators and at the same time be competent for air accidents. It's a degradation of a system that's been established and it's not good for the state to degrade what works that way. That might be the case with some other agencies. Who knows where this director will end when the government decides to connect several more similar ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77496	Martina Banić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77497	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague, Boric, would not get into what the director will pay and where he will end up but what worries me about setting up agencies is the way people in agencies are employed. Here's a case from a family where one person responded to a competition at an agency that was recently established and where there was only one question at a job interview and that's any date you were born. So it's hard for me to believe that someone could be disqualified just because someone who questioned him or questioned him didn't like his date of birth. So that's what worries me, that young people who are daily looking for work, who finish colleges, who are highly educated that they can't get a job because someone doesn't like his date of birth.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77498	The final word of the Minister of Management, Arsena Bauk. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77499	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Let's get out of here. Therefore, as regards the salary of the Director of AZOP, it is prescribed by the Data Protection Act and is equal to the Director of the State Administrative Organisation, which means that it is 6% lower from this month and its deputy or alternate is equal to the Deputy or Deputy Director of the State Administration, which means that he is also 6% lower from this month on as well as all other officials. It's the gross base for state officials times 5.27+0.5 for the year of the principal's internship and it seems the same to me just times 4.55 and not times 5.27 for this, for I'm a mathematician, I even think I could calculate it this way at the beginning, but here's what we can do later, when I get the calculator, it'll be easier for me to think of it this way. [[Intruder Zgrebec: It is mathematics for the primary school of colleagues.]] As regards the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, it has, since this year, actually had the opportunity or mission to deal only with the protection of personal data because, in the process of EU accession, we have defined in the Law on the right to access to information that we have established a special institution that deals with the right to access information. I think that this is good, so they are AZOP and the Commissioner for Information must kill themselves in a kind of constant questioning where this line is between the protection of personal data and the transparency of certain other data and therefore, in future work, will absolutely have more opportunities to be profiled as an agency that is indeed primarily concerned with the protection of personal data while the right to access information will be realized in another body, based on the work of another body that will, in its nature, go a little more in favour of transparency, because it will not have that additional responsibility to think about the protection of personal data but we, as a national body in daily work and we are meeting with the need to ask the Agency if something is appropriate for the publication of personal data, we are acting in their opinions and such solutions are subject to reviewing the Commissioner for information and in the finality of the Administrative Court. So it's a mechanism that I believe puts a good balance. Of course, from the point of view of citizens, it is always good that the agency has quite a restrictive interpretation and, from the point of view of transparency of the conduct of the public authority, it is good that it has a little less restrictive interpretation. Therefore, it will always be one question given as to what is appropriate at a given time. In the end, it's the court that decides. As for this matter of appointment or non-appointing of directors, therefore AZOP went through a phase of transformation when one part of the agency's staff moved to the Information Commissioner's office and can now be fully committed to the work, so we decided at the moment when the transition process was finished to try with a new person and that the profiling of AZOP more to the protection of personal data that there was a logical sequence, so here is the answer to this question that you said you were expecting. As regards, of course, information on the work of the Agency, it also submits an annual report, and therefore this is an opportunity to discuss the AZOP, and now we have the Annual Report of the Commissioner for Information, which pays a lot of attention not only to the central authorities of the state administration as bodies obliged to submit a report but also to all other legal persons with public authority, the unit of local self-government, and this is another proof that AZOP has to deal with what it is dealing with, and that access to information still required the establishment of a special body. As far as the agencies are concerned, let's just say AZOP is one of the few agencies that reports to the Croatian Parliament and one of the unfortunately not so many of the agencies established by law. It is therefore not only for agencies to be established at the Parliament meeting, they can be established by regulations and other acts. The number of agencies is about the same number as it was in 2010, '11, '12, so some are founded, some are joined, some are founded, then they are rightly objected, some when they merge, then maybe with law or less with law they are also objecting, but we are trying not to increase that number and we want the little system to be rationalized. How successful we will be in this, it will be measured very precisely by the number of established, merged or shut down institutions. So much for final address. I see there's a replica, so I'll be able to answer more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77500	Miroslav Tudjman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77501	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, don't you think this whole AZOP story is upside down? I have recently asked you a question about the address book of the databases as they are all called, so you managed to answer that you only know what is under the control of the Ministry of Administration, and that it is only intended or only to create a database in which the Croatian state or state institutions are working. And now this one Data Protection Agency should take care of all this and not know at all what's in place. Wouldn't it make more sense that there's this condition, that there are rules of conduct, that there's some kind of strategy, that you know who has the right to access it? I often ask that question from security services to other institutions, to know what safety standards, communication security, data protection are. It's all gone. So we can believe in good intentions and a desire to do something but everything is done in quicksand and there's no way that until there's one whole approach, one strategy with rules of conduct. You have the Law of Administrative Procedure which you probably know much better than I do, that the state cannot ask citizens for information that it already has, and that is done regularly, it is repeated in all laws, it is again requested from the housekeeper to I don't know what, and such a policy according to the protection and personal data and all other data simply doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77502	Replication response, Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77503	I find it hard most of the time to disagree with what you said. I did get the question of the parliamentary question and I answered what was in the circle that I could sign and be sure it was true, that if you had asked the government or the president then all the ministries would have answered and that would have probably been a more extensive answer. The very fact that we have responded and written and the parliamentary procedure has been sent by the State Information Infrastructure Act, where exactly what you have said and planned to do, shows that this is where we are going to track down what you asked. Of course what you said security protocol, etc. It's not just the Ministry of Management or the resistor I'm covering. It's a much wider question, even in the smaller part it's a detour. So we're working on a trail of what you said and it doesn't basically have much to do with this agenda point, that's one much broader question. And I agree with you not only the Law on Administrative Procedure but also the Law on the System of State Administration prescribes the same thing, but the fact is that citizens will still get a favor much faster if they deliver something themselves, unfortunately, but if they are officially sought by state authorities and we are trying to change that in our daily work and we insist on doing so, and I believe that we will also achieve certain results in that part. That's what we're always saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77504	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77505	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister, we've been looking for some information about the number of agencies, institutes and institutions, and there are about 180 agencies out there, whether they're numbering and seducing and the institutes. And somehow the mic per mic every year is at least 2, 3 one split goes into two, so it happens here now. I don't know, they say there's over 22,000 people employed somewhere in those agencies and institutions and all that. I am now interested, you have now said and separated this Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, it remains an agency and we will have the Commissioner for the right to access information in which he will now be working for the institution and that he will then have to do something in that newly created institution, he will be the Commissioner, and he will probably be the director then and he will increase a number of employees. He's not here right now. I was just asking him about the OIB. In reality, it can't function as a unique data that should be served by the IRS and beyond. Because what Professor Tudjman said is true, we must fulfill from JMBG to all life, to the date of birth, the male, the female, everything else, and never enough. Now, my question to you is this separation, whether this Commissioner will be employed in some new institution as it will be called and whether there will be employment of some other new people and whether you think this year will increase the number of some agencies, institutions and institutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77506	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77507	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77508	This is not the current morning, but the minister will respond anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77509	Thank you, that's fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77510	Replica, you had a replica, not a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77511	All right, all right. Therefore, the list of agencies, institutes, funds and other legal entities to which the founder of the Republic of Croatia is located is on the website of the Ministry of Administration with the data under which the ministry belongs to individual institutions, when the website and the instrument of establishment is established. For example, the Croatian Forest Institute as one institution writes was founded by a self-government agreement on the association of work, the Law on Scientific Research. The institute has continued its work. We have somewhere that it was founded by the Imperial Order of the Kingdom of Dalmatia, Slavia and Croatia somewhere was established by the Central Committee Decision, etc. So, we have given complete information and we will try to upload, that is, how exactly is Croatian said to update when, of course, there is a change in the hope that these updates will go to a reduction rather than an increase, but we will not hide it even if there is an increase, although at least in the procedure that comes to the government as far as I have the influence to provide what active, and which passive resistance thus increases the number of these institutions. As regards the Commissioner for Information, the office was already established by the Law on the right to access information in 2013, which was one of the conditions for the conclusion of the negotiations. So, it dragged away for a long time and in the amendments to the budget, I even came here to refuse the amendment, had to, the heavy heart to refuse amendments that went to an increase in funds for, if you remember about the Commissioner's Office so it wouldn't be, so the AZOP officials went over to that office that I thought even answered that they were dealing with the right to access information. Therefore, additional, in that sense, additional costs other than what has already been approved will not be. And every year more people go out of the system than they're accepted, so there's a reduction in the number of employees. And now, I see my time is running out.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77512	Thank you. But you have another replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77513	And I have another replica? And this rest I can answer, here I was satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77514	The Central Committee was founded only by the Labour Movement Institute, so not by other agencies. Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77515	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, I'm interested in whether you as Minister of Administration, since there is this Agency for the Protection of Personal Data can protect us? Because I have a feeling that our phone numbers, mobile and fixed are available to everyone. And you just sometimes get surprised who can call you all. And it became a problem because we don't have too much peace, now we don't even choose when it's called, now I can call you at 6:00 in the morning at 8:00 or 10:00 anyway and every time they call from some other phones, but they always have yours. And when you change your cell number again they find you and I understand the customer's relationship and the one that sells, because when I buy ok he'll write down my number so he'll try to call me back and sell me something, but when I don't buy anything, they call. Most of all, call those who sell books, and these pots and lids, and we have a problem, you have no peace in the afternoons, no nights, and somehow they come up with that data. How is it possible that these data are available, and we have all possible agencies that should protect us? Now it's a question that should be resolved by the government and your ministry and to allow people to really establish a relationship but a customer and a trader whenever they want, not that we're available whenever they want and that they don't give us peace and they assure us that what they're offering is what we need to buy. Do you have the opportunity to protect us as Minister of Administration or do we have this agency just to have it?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77516	The reply to the replica of Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77517	I first want to express my full solidarity with you for disturbing you. Imagine what it's like for others. Also, I myself was sometimes the object of calling those who are doing the polls and, apart from polling these for the popularity of political parties, I have not responded to these others. I don't know how they got the number, because of the two numbers I'm using, none of them are in my name, which means they're obviously more or less allowed to have a list of phone numbers available. I don't really believe they have the name and last name of the person they're dealing with, then it's a public record that's on the phone book, and if you want to protect the number, then you have these cards, now you can't say which one we wouldn't be covered up or a direct commercial, and I almost said it, but I kept it. And as for the specific case, I can really do so when, of course, the director is appointed to the Parliament and when it is time to present your problem to him and to see how the Personal Data Protection Agency can help you. So here is the next debate on the AZOP report that we have a positive example of the Agency's action on your satisfaction, satisfaction and agency, and that here is something concrete that we can do positively. I believe that was the intensity of your question. And of course here's another one of my absolute solidarity and compassion with you because of these problems you're having. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77518	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the proposal tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77519	Proposal for a decision appointing the Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency. The debate is closed. I am voting on a proposal for a decision to appoint the Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Again. We have an objection to the numbered result, so we'll repeat the vote. I'm asking who's in. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that most of the 77 votes in favour and 29 votes in favour of the decision to appoint the Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency is in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77520	We will also discuss - Proposal for a decision on the appointment of presidents and members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development The Committee on Education, Science and Culture is proposed on the basis of Article 11(1). Law on scientific activity and higher education. You've received the motion for an act. The applicant's representative will not further explain the proposal. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club Vice-President Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77521	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. As usual, we discuss science, education, as well as the topic of culture in the afternoon, without journalists, without direct transmission, but I guess that's the way it should be. Unfortunately, there is also no president of the Assembly Committee. I regret to say, at the beginning, that the proposal of the Committee on Science, Education and Sports for these members and presidents of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development is the result of the revote, i.e. the overvote of the ruling members in this committee in relation to the members of the opposition and that the HDZ will not support this proposal. In fact, the product of the overvote is one I dare say a scandalous and sad proposal, which the ruling majority in the parliament will surely support and vote tomorrow, but which will be disgraced by all those members of the ruling coalition who participated in it. Why did I call that proposal sad and miserable? Because at the preparatory meeting, we discussed greatly the criteria under which future members should be proposed, and we all agreed that according to the members, and especially the president of the National Council, we should meet the most scientific criteria based on objective published scientific works in world-class journals, so that we should be decorated with scientific excellence and measurable, world-recognizable scientific results, but also have experience in top academic and scientific administrative bodies, particularly international ones. Since according to the Law on Scientific Activity, higher education to this National Council is the highest body to care for the development and quality of the entire scientific activities and systems of science, higher education and technological development in the Republic of Croatia, there are many key roles in the law, as many as 18 are said in the law. Such high demands were fully understood and justified. We all agreed to this. Despite my years of experience in politics, I naively hoped that this would really lead to the vote by the board members. In fact, science really should be above daily politics. Success in science is something that is easily verifiable today, easily assessed and evaluated based on objective quotes, the echo factors of the journals in which scientific papers are published and similar. However, after all this great and very principled debate on scientific excellence and achievements, at the second meeting of the board, following the party's discipline, I stress that one group within the ruling party voted with no criteria or arguments to explain the proposal for the composition of the National Council and its president as it is before you. This was not only caused by the dissatisfaction and dissatisfaction of members of the board of opposition, but also by prominent university professors and member of the ruling party at the end of the committee meeting, announcing his resignation as a committee member in protest against such proceedings. Afterwards, the University of Zagreb sent a protest letter to the Prime Minister, President of the Parliament for such a procedure. It doesn't occur to me, of course, to mention the names of individuals who are or are not suggested, or to bid with their scientific excellence or mediocrity, and in some it is even less than mediocrity, but I just have to point out some facts. I'll ask you all, and especially the members of the ruling Kukuriku coalition a few questions, and you try to answer them in at least yourself, if you can't speak out loud because of party discipline. Is it really possible to compare several articles published in the home magazine in which the author of these articles is also a member of the editorial work with dozens and dozens of scientific papers published in top international scientific journals, authors or authors for which the Committee does not propose to be members of the National Council? Is it really possible to compare the person who proposed himself to be a member of the National Council or the person proposed by a group of several of their friends, which the Committee proposes for members of the Council to, for example, the scientist proposed by the HAZU and even several universities, several other universities, which the Committee does not propose to be a member of the Council. Is it possible to compare a person who experiences in top academic and scientific administrative bodies, in particular international, can only be indicated that he was a member of the Central Committee of the Croatian Union of Communists and anti-candidate Ivica Racan at the 11th Congress of the Union of Communists of Croatia, that he was a member of the PLINACRO Supervisory Committee of the Podravka Board and the chairman of the Supervisory Committee of the Zagreb Holding, while controlled by the SDP, we all know that Holding was successful, with a person who is a member of the HAZU, but also a member of the European Academy who has been chaired for years by the Permanent Committee on Humanistic Sciences of the European Science Foundation, who is now chairman of the European Working Group for the Centres of Scientific Excellence, etc. etc. which the Committee does not propose to be a member of the National Council even though it has been a candidate for its chairman. Whether any of the members of the board from the ruling, but also you colleagues and colleagues from the ruling Kukuriku coalition, which will be represented by only two people by 17 members of the National Council of Humanistic Sciences and by other areas of 4 or 5 persons. Will anyone ask the question of how that out of the five candidates of entrepreneurship representatives of whom three, three better said had a PhD in science and published scientific papers by board members from the ranks of the ruling proposed precisely those two who did not have a PhD in science, and one even any scientific degree or published scientific paper. Will anyone ask the question of how that of the two candidates who should be representatives of the economy, I stress the Committee's economy is proposing a deputy county attorney. I'm very interested in what branch the State's Attorney's Office is, so I'm sure one of my colleagues from the ruling coalition will be able to explain it to me. Who of the ruling Kukuriku coalition will answer the question of how some of the proposed members have been eliminated and have not voted in their session at all, with the reason that the heads of the institution in higher education and science, so rectors, proctors or deans, and therefore cannot be members of the National Council, and then the proposal that you received is proposed by the Dean of a high school, even under the firm that he is a representative of entrepreneurship. I would also like to know if any of the MPs, in particular the representative of the ruling Kukuriku coalition, but also other MPs and MPs, who are otherwise all-out in favour of equality and equal representation of women, are going to ask the question and raise their vote against the fact that only one woman has been proposed from the 17 members proposed for the National Council. This is not only in direct contrast to national gender equality policy, the recommendation of the Council of Europe Committee to Member States but also to a number of other Croatian international documents. Or this time, the party's discipline will be stronger than the need for equality and equal representation of women, so that all otherwise strong gender equality fighters will be silently silent and give up their hands for this proposal. Of course, some of the rulings who will be tasked with defending this committee proposal in order to be voted on tomorrow to claim that they are only excellent candidates, that the proposings have not been led by who is a member of the SDP or who is close to the ruling party, in fact I must say again better to the current prime minister or current minister of science, education and sport because that is what this is about. However, the facts differ. Of course, they will want to defend indefensibly, noting that they are proposed among others and one academic who is a member of HDZ, one candidate who has been proposed by the Croatian Catholic University. But we all know what in the 17-member body means 2, or even 3 or 4 votes. It is clear to all of us that such a composition of the National Council proposed by the Committee, which I have no doubt the ruling Kukuriku coalition tomorrow in Parliament will choose to guarantee that it will be only the extended hand of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in a similar way to the National Science Council, which, for example, was brought by that disastrous Regulation on the choice of scientific calling, which caused so many polemics and protests, the public burning of diplomas, which was later brought down by the Constitutional Court. But I just want to tell you in the end something. If you choose a National Council like this, it will be just another one of your shames and another of your auto golfes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77522	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77523	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear academic Rainer, you've told one great truth today. We have two days to say the right time when everyone is watching here talk about the Croatian Olympic Committee, listen to everything and everything. However, a topic like science you said well here we are late in the afternoon, two discussions and a goodbye. But, Mr. Academyman Reiner, what kind of science minister is that of a choice, or a proposal from the president of the National Council of Science. Mr. Background Minister, as we know, is that he graduated from medical school, but he was told by a commercialist for the sale of drugs, so that science really means absolutely nothing to him and that publication of papers. And that's sad, because something that should be pride and pride in Croatia we humiliate and bring down to the lowest branches. And that's why I support your debate and of course we won't raise our hand for this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77524	The replica matches Vice President Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77525	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I don't mean to comment on the character and the work of the current minister, but I'm glad you looked back on what the fact is. Themes like this that are very important. Because I repeat this is a National Council which has huge powers in terms of strategic thinking about the development of Croatian science and education. We all swear that from a difficult economic situation, we can only be drawn from science, innovation, education, etc. etc. As it seems in reality, we all know, however. But on the other hand, such topics really come late in the afternoon on the agenda. Let us remember the same when it was a question of Dubrovnik walls, therefore in the area of culture and other such issues. In the hall here we are as many as 20 or a little more which is certainly not happy. This is certainly not good because unfortunately it shows two things. One, are these topics really important to us or are we just pretending to be important to us? And secondly, the fact that it's irrelevant because we all know it's going to be voted tomorrow no matter what we talk about here, the rest of us here by midnight, not the others, discussed or not debated, so anyway, it's all determined no matter what people were on that list and what it looked like. So, unfortunately, it's something that actually speaks of us as members of this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77526	New replica, colleague Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77527	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Reiner won't be ashamed to raise his hand on a list like this, you've made me say something on behalf of the club about every candidate we've proposed. You should be ashamed to talk like that about the people we're going to propose tomorrow. You say you don't want to bid names. You just bid your name when you said that one candidate was a presidential candidate. So don't deceive the public. They were all candidates for the president. You here openly say that she was your candidate for president. Next, you say what two, three, four votes mean? What a voice, what a party voice in a body like this. So we're talking science. You list HDZ members and sympathisers. We weren't handling it. And finally, you're talking about the equality of women, have you slept through one of the last sessions of Parliament in the EU? How did your euro MPs vote? It's embarrassing! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77528	Answer, Vice President Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77529	Thank you very much. Well, all I can say is that apparently Freud was right. So you used one expression that I didn't mention, which is party voices. ... No, no, I'm sorry. I didn't say a single word about party voices. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, in fact, what you're thinking about is that you're thinking exactly what I'm criticizing, that some kind of body that needs to be dealing with strategically thinking about science and education should not be subject to day-to-day policy and should be based on whether these people really meet some top scientific criteria and top-notch management criteria in science and what we all agreed on when we talked about it and it turned out to be different. That's what I've been talking about, and in no case have I talked about party candidates, other parties, etc. And I deliberately didn't want to mention any name, and I'm not going to mention any name, and I'm not going to bid on one name, no matter who it is, and no matter what I think about these people, whether they're top-notch or not. I don't think that's the place to discuss it if we agreed to follow the principles. What bothers me is that you gave up on those principles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77530	A new replica, a respected colleague, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77531	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here is my colleague Reiner, in your presentation, you often mention what you said to your colleague Tomic, but you did insinuate as much during your debate, but you mention party discipline, party discipline and so forth. Well, I'd just like to remind you what a joint discipline and joint discipline is, then, because I never remember a fellow member of yours voting against the position of his club, raising his hand with us for something he thinks is good or against his club if he thinks it's not good. On this side of the assembly, that's what happened. Because precisely because we're thinking, precisely because we have personal attitudes, precisely because we don't blindly follow and because we have what you say about party discipline. And the other thing that's interesting don't you think it's very interesting, and that maybe it's more interesting about your club that some of your club members are doing today exactly what they called us yesterday, that they're replicating themselves to their own club, and that way they actually bring absurdity and debate on behalf of the club. Because how do you replicate your own club? I don't get it. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77532	Please don't throw it out of the bench. The replica matches the vice president of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77533	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, let's take our classmates in a row. First of all, why do you have a problem with me saying party? So your party is called the Social Democratic Party. So what's your shame? Is that something bothering you? I don't see what that's about. Well, that's her name. So I don't understand why this should be necessary for you, and it should be disturbing. As for replication, let me remind you a little bit, the current majority in the Parliament insisted that an institute of replicas be introduced as it is now, desiring to disable the institution that exists and which I agree abused from all sides, let's just say it openly, and that's a misquote, i.e. correcting the wrong quote. And then with your voices, your insistence has introduced this replication system with which I agree that it rarely actually turns into some ad infinitum discussion kudikamo extends some discussions etc. But I'm sorry you voted it out, we didn't vote against it. Therefore, you can't complain now that something you wanted is coming true and that you longed for. So, I'm afraid it's been missed what you said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77534	New replica, colleague Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77535	The esteemed Vice President, with many thesis from your speech, could not agree, but I can agree with one of them and agree that it is indeed almost unacceptable that there are no women in the composition of such a body, namely that there is only one of the 17 members and members of the National Council. I then went a little while though I wasn't a member of the board to ask for actual documentation, to see who the suggestions were and actually to find that the problem was, so the problem was just that they weren't proposed here for the choice we would easily solve it. However, the problem is much longer. As you know, therefore, through seven categories, members are elected, so this scientific advisors in the permanent calling, there were five women proposed by 10, there is chosen 4 overall. A total of 36 candidates were proposed by representatives of regular professors, four women. In other categories, there was not a single woman who was a candidate at all, and that tells us that we have one actually even this ratio of 4 out of 36 in regular professors shows that in fact she is within our scientific community and the higher education community there is no awareness that so to say about the need among other candidates and women. We can agree perhaps on one candidate, I think that science is worth excellence and that less relevant to say so sexually, but the fact is that given the proposed candidates that it was really impossible in this body to have equality to say both genders and that we should do much more to sensitise the very scientific and academic community itself that actually scientists and teachers with high schools as well as businessmen who do so and we have great ones who are related to this part of education deserve to be candidates. For us women, in a higher proportion and graduate colleges, we have a higher number of PhDs than if a doctor really is a little more of a problem than if this one or most of them had suggested a bad composition. It was simply not suggested in that part that the choice itself could satisfy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77536	The reply to the replica of home president Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77537	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Reverend Lugaric, I fully agree with you. There is one of the problems and our sciences and our education and our health where women make up most and where, unfortunately, when it comes to such a proposal, men predominate among the proposings. However, we may have had to pay more attention to those categories, and these are the two most numerous and largest categories that have been chosen by more women, which unfortunately has not been done, and that is what I have to confess my vote against. There in those categories they were unfortunately for some categories had already been made such before the choice to say so and were offered two candidates for two places. We could have chosen or not voted. However, in these categories where more women could be chosen, unfortunately it is not and I don't think it is good, and that's why I felt the need to point out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77538	The last replica of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77539	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Academic Reiner, you said that because of the government's procedure or one minister, the entire academic community was appalled by a proposal or just a suggestion as you said the person who must have been horrifying. For the president of the National Science Council. The fact that the ruling doesn't care about the appointment actually speaks about how and in what way this government rules and on many occasions it was actually talked about that the government is in conflict with all social groups and now, after this appointment, it doesn't have to be surprised that it will be in conflict with the academic community and maybe eventually it should be asked whether the government knows about that Latin... and in this way, as you said, they actually scored the auto goal themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77540	The replica corresponds to Vice President Željko Reiner's home.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77541	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Reverend Babic, I must correct you, so what I was saying was that some of the proposings were so to say suggested themselves or suggested by the groups, I didn't mention whether it was for the president or for the members. Unfortunately, however, it is true that both the minister and the ministry, and thus the government, and often other parts of the government from the Prime Minister, are still in conflict with the academic community. That's certainly not good. It's not good and this choice will, of course, make that yap, that divide, that disagreement deepens it. I repeat this letter to the President of the Croatian Parliament and the President of the Croatian Government as well as to the President of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament in which the University of Zagreb cites a whole series of arguments against such a procedure and such a choice of this council. Among other things, they mention the possibility of conflicts of interest as representation of the interest of the economy and entrepreneurship will be entrusted to the Dean of a private high school, although high schools already have two members in the proposal, etc., etc. I will not read you parts of this letter that have come and repeat at the highest address and it is certainly a reflection of a great dissatisfaction and frustration of the academic community with relations with the Ministry, I am afraid now and towards the Croatian Parliament if it is voted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77542	On behalf of the SDP Club, a respected colleague, Damir Tomic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77543	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I didn't mean to list the people we suggested here because you all got them on your bench but in the interest of the public, I'm gonna have to do it. You heard in this debate what were the conditions, from which we chose, you heard how many candidates there were per group and I won't talk about it. I personally mind that we only got two candidates from high schools and they took the right to make an election, I think it's within the authority of the board and that all the candidates were supposed to be on board the board members but well, as counterpart Reiner said, we could accept them both, one or none of them. But we go in order, whether or not George Dresser is willing to do what he wants to do with the agricultural institute in Osijek, a man who was a representative of technical science who wrote 29 cca papers, or perhaps the problem in Katarina Horvat Levi is representatives of humanistic sciences, who wrote 9 books and who won the annual HAZU prize, perhaps the problem in Kreša Kadija, who is a representative of natural sciences and the largest public scientific institute in RG, hosted the CERN, etc. Fifteen thousand quotes. Perhaps the problem in Mr. Kostovic, I will not explain it, or in Mr. Zeljko Grabarevic, a representative of the biomedical area which is one ma ma i think 58 cca works. Furthermore, perhaps the problem is Mr. Marko Duvnjak from the University of Zagreb Medical School, which was proposed by 28 prominent scientists. Perhaps the problem is Ivo Smrić, obviously, is a representative of the social sciences that the international experience gained in Great Britain, USA and China, which is a member of the Scientific Council with the economic development of the HAZU which has 90 scientific papers of 5 scientific books. It's probably, I don't. Perhaps the problem is Emilio Marin from the Croatian Catholic University, which was just proposed by the Croatian Catholic University as a representative of the humanistic sciences of a regular foreign member of the French Academy of Science and Arts, guest professors at Oxford and Sorbonne, etc. The ambassador was human. Or the problem in Hrvoje Kraljević, a math professor who was a senior minister of science successful in Racan's government, might hurt that we are in the second round between that candidate because only two candidates entered the second round of fellow Fuchs elected him, and most of us, don't be angry about that. I would always personally round up Mr. Kraljević, I remember him as an excellent professor. The pech may be that we have two board members who were taught by his colleague Kraljević and we remember him in excellent light as an excellent expert. We also need mathematicians in this body. Or the problem is Frano Barbir from the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, Engineering and Shipbuilding of the University of Split. There are 200 works over a thousand quotes, a man who made seven patents, I think a man like that is also good for us in this body. Or is the Mladen problem... proposed by the Council of the University. But these two from the council of universities, that's what I said, that's not a good thing it went like that. People are okay. But we'd be happier if they'd made all 10 candidates available to us. Or is the problem Mislav Balkovic you mentioned. What's the problem? Because he is very active in the strategic activities of the ministry, he has worked on various strategies because he was already a member of the National Council for Higher Education, which ensures a certain continuity of such a body. Or the problem is Jakob Nakic from the University of Rijeka, because the river is probably. I know you have a problem with the minister, you have a problem because the minister in his parliamentary term said some things about your party and look at the miracles he was right. Unfortunately for me, I wish Mr. Jovanovic wasn't right honestly, etc. So when you talk about not wanting to bid your names, when you say that some people were candidates for presidents, then be correct and tell me why, why is Mr. Kraljević your problem because it comes from other times? Do you not, then, most of you, come? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77544	We've got two lines reported. You've had plenty of time to replicate. You can't answer for a replica when he's done talking, you know that yourself. We'll listen to the replica of my colleague, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77545	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Your Honor, I say again, subconscious is a hell of a thing. So first of course you mentioned names, I think it's much more correct not to mention any name in good or bad. They all have their own good side, I guess, like all of us, some of our own bad side, but I don't think it's right to mention the names of anyone because then we always start bidding is someone better, is someone worse because someone has more of these abilities, has those kind of abilities. And that's why I spoke in principle and talked about quality in principle and categories. You did not, however, you said whether someone at HDZ's will or not to HDZ. Well, that's exactly the point is that no one should be at the will of the HDZ, but not at the will of the SDP, but by scientific and other qualifications, and there's a fellow key problem because now we're coming back to what unfortunately escaped you, and that's the reason most of us are. And there's the problem again. So in something that speaks of science about strategic thinking in science and education there is room to say we are the majority and we can do it. Well, you can do it, so you did it. You'll probably do it tomorrow, but at what cost, at what cost for that same science, for that same education, etc. But that's what you said, I didn't say. And I don't think that's good, that's the principle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77546	The replica matches Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77547	Thank you, Vice President. I don't know why you always call for cataclysmic events related to SDP decisions like I don't know what we've chosen. Well, I read it to you on purpose now and I had to bring it down to a personal level because you've repeated several times that we don't choose well and that it's a shame for the SDP. So what's the shame? I've read 17 names, which exactly the man is a disgrace. We need to demystify what you're saying. And what you read that letter, you're whitening out the academic community, so wait for me to be insulted. Both Zeljko Jovanovic and Sasa Zelinka, and Lidija Bagarić, and Domagoj Hajduković and me and you and we are an academic community, and I guess we're wondering something here, not only Beliša. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77548	Second replica of Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77549	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. See, the problem right now is you say what the problem is. The problem is the lack of political correctness, the problem is the lack of political culture, the problem is that you reject the proposals is not the problem here in Beliš, but he is the rector of the Zagreb University and on behalf of the institution speaks. No Senate candidate has passed, no candidate from the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts has passed, has been accepted. What if each of us could suggest 17 other names and ask you what you have against it? The problem is the consequences of this imposition, the imposition of candidates. I can't say it right now, but I'll talk about it in my debate. That's what you don't want to accept at all, the arguments of what effect this imposition of the majority has on the majority by not respecting one leprosy of institutions operating in this area, their opinion and their views. It's a key problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77550	In reply to Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77551	Thank you, Vice President. Obviously I slept through when we were learning about democracy, I don't know when we were learning it, I just don't get what you're talking about, I just don't get it. What's democracy? ... You too, ma'am. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Because democracy has always been the will of most people, and there is no parallel and there is no bounds. You're even saying one thing that no one, no candidate has entered this election proposed by the academy, so that's not true. The Croatian Academy of Science and Arts has proposed Academic Ivica Kostovic, Alexa Bjeliš has proposed Darko Huljanić who entered, do not deceive the public. I don't know what you'd like. If you took those 17 candidates and said here are our candidates, which we propose, and that the board said excellent opposition proposes, that's the best solution. Well, I guess we do too. Do you think I haven't read the papers of all these candidates, each of us, we've sat down, we've talked, we've negotiated unlike what's going on with you in HDZ?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77552	No throwing, please. The positions of the HDSSB Club will be presented to us by Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77553	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The position of the HDSSB Club ‘It is not onion or onion-scented’. So, no proposals from the HDSSB or from our region have been adopted, nor have they been considered, and according to this proposal, in fact,... Yes, we'll take it easy now, Mrs. Lugaric, don't be hasty. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So we wouldn't want to talk about it. Why don't we even talk about it? The problem is that in this appointment of the president and members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development, a very important body for Croatian science would be said in one high body. Therefore, higher education would be expected, one tolerance dialogue would be expected, respect not only of individuals, groups, associations, but of Croatian institutions who proposed and proposed candidates would be expected. This is how we have a public statement on the side of the Kukuriku coalition, which apriori refuses and calls for democracy, the rule of the majority. At least here in the selection of therefore members of the National Council for Science and Higher Education should, I won't expect to say, but we at least expected to say to the colleague who spoke here, at least that we have here parliamentary representatives of the life of these people. It's no problem getting into a computer and finding out some things. However, given the procedure and the fact that this is a constituency, it would be worth having the lives of these people and perhaps comparing them with those who have been rejected, so those who have not become or who will not become members of this National Council tomorrow because we have a democracy that says democracy is the rule of the majority. Now, we said that, yesterday, I was not present because of certain obligations in Slavonski Brod, but here today I was present before the afternoon session when the Kukuriku Coalition brought down trees and stones to Croatia not to say sports but to the Croatian Olympic Committee which is the representative of Croatian sport clearly. About the conflict between teachers, professors, about the difficult words that fall between the trade unions of those and Minister Jovanovic that we do not speak, almost daily. So, after sports this morning, we now have a conflict on the relation, so we have a policy against sports, so now we have a policy against science. What's going to happen tomorrow, I don't know. But every day we have situations, to say one, one, one neural situation that leads to this kind of debate very contradictory, but we must say that if we speak openly then we must, we cannot avoid that we are not also talking about those names that we know or that we know from ancient times that those stories from ancient times, and the stories of ancient times say that he is a candidate for the president of the National Council, precisely that he was the president of the City Committee of the Communists of Croatia, exactly that he was a member of the Central Committee, but we wouldn't have done that either, so they were many, so no one resented them, but we also know of the orientation which was then clear and loud, therefore, the pro-Southal orientation of that gentleman. We know that he almost opposed meetings of the Central Committee to conduct free democratic elections in Croatia, and now this gentleman becomes president of the National Council. The stories of long ago come back as stories of the present and the future, only as long as it goes that way will we see it. It can take a year and two, but it won't take long. Croatia has scientists in academic terms, so with the title of professor, doctor of science etc., academic titles almost as they once said that we have a general like China or the United States. We have hyperproduction thanks to those famous transcriptions,... schools, plagiarisms, etc., so when we evaluate so-called. In medicine they say... so the works according to values, according to the score in science then we could come up with a lot of knowledge. But here we only have names and nothing else, we have no résumés. A colleague here spoke and said... something against this, if we have something, so we don't have anyone against anyone, there's nobody against anyone against anything and against his work and against his actions and against what he's done in life, as I hope none of us has any objections to his work, but in choosing for such a significant body for science, there should be certain criteria for education, but also knowledge of the work in the past. I was once on a round table organized by the foreign minister. There was also a gentleman who now sees that he's a candidate, Dr. Paul Stupps. It is said to be named for a permanent calling that came to Croatia in 2003. I don't know if it's signifiable that he came to Croatia in 2003, but I know that we discussed on the round table the advantages of Croatia's entry into the European Union, so this was before Croatia's entry into the European Union, and that the gentleman in question, along with the current foreign minister, took a keen stand for joining the European Union for the reason that our young people will be able to go to the European Union without any obstacles and get employment. I will not comment therefore on the main advantage of Croatia's entry into the European Union, which is that our young people go to Europe and get a job. Now 450 doctors, the doctor, have gone and spoken as a great contribution to Europe by receiving foreign doctors. We're going to replace our domestics with foreign ones, and our domestics are going to go to Europe because they're domestic now and then, we're Europe, so they're domestic now, and we're going to get these from some of the countries in the environment that aren't in the European Union. And this is a great advantage and progress of Croatia in scientific terms and in other terms, technologically and each other. For this reason, since I know my colleague Lugarić alluded to Osijek, Mr. George Drezner from the Agricultural Institute in Osijek, so I also know some personal academician, I know Ivica Kostović, because he was also a professor at the Medical Faculty and assistant for a time, etc. But all in all, not to be more satisfied that, at least those of us who stayed here today, got the lives of these people, so that we can judge at least somewhat objectively and realisticly, but this dry information on here is two pages of all the material of real names and with a proposal for a president for whom, I can freely say right away at the beginning, I object, and I won't be for it. For others, I would be abstention, for the other members, and therefore the single rating of the HDSSB club will be extremely restrained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77554	We're moving on to replicas now. First came the honorary colleague of Đurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77555	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for respecting my line after all. Dear colleague Grubisic, you spoke about the procedure. Well, you see, it's very difficult when the Croatian Parliament is led in this way, so we don't know what's on the agenda or what's on the agenda, and then, in reality, like the Philistines, it's very good to do it to throw one topic that's been discussed for two days, and then what's of national value for the Croatian people, from the national treasure to the Croatian people, which is science, education and culture, it's being thrown now in the evening. And you have apostrophe of some members that, I agree with you, achievements in scientific work are very important. What's important is what someone has done in the past, so I wouldn't want the president of this council, and neither is a member of that council of persons who acted in this way at a time when there were more people in the alliance of communists, but I have to say there were honest Croats who didn't cause such strange things and did not make strange statements. And then again, I know from here respected professors for whom I would certainly raise my hand, who are younger, who have published scientific papers not only in Croatia but also outside, and who do not have a background like this. If it is someone in the SDP such as his colleague Tomic, his proposal is based on the statements and past of this president most excellent and best then our poor science and culture and poor Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77556	I will honor your desire for a replica every time you point it out in time and never when you're late. It's very easy to understand. Now Boro Grubisic will answer your line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77557	Thank you very much, comrade twilight. And so the election of the president of the National Science Council is in line with the current policy led by Minister Jovanovic and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and then I guess those views are compatible with Mr. Smuić's views from those before and perhaps later, so here's the proposal. But what I am especially here, and you have offered me your replica to remember and remind me that what has been said by 17 members of this Council is only one woman. Well, here I am, no Mrs. Sobol, who, by the way, always has a very gallant discussion about the problem, so that relationship relationship and other women's rights. Well, here's what we're going to do, and we're going to stay short for that debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77558	The second replica Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77559	Thank you, Vice President. As far as the résumé is concerned, I totally agree with my colleague, they should have all the MPs, but they got them. All the clubs got their résumés. The fact that a colleague didn't care about it was something else, that he's pushing statistics on, that's something else. Besides, if they were interested in the Education Committee, they'd probably nominate their party to someone on the board. They didn't care. As far as stories from ancient times are concerned, they are very suspicious and I have no intention of getting involved in this, but it is completely incorrect what my colleague said about Mr. Family's political views at the time. I guess all the honest Croats ended up in HDZ, and they ended up even more honest with the HDZ in the HDZ. That's what I heard in Slavonia. And in the end, you said at the beginning that it wasn't about proposing. Well, that's not true at all. I've read to you all 17 candidates who've been proposing. You probably weren't, you weren't listening or you weren't interested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77560	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77561	My colleague, you've got a big crush on yourself today, and that's how your discussions work. But you must know that both you and HDZ have actually come from the SKH. One became the left wing of the SKH, the other the right wing of the SKH. Therefore, if HDSSB did not think it had, you have top intellectuals who never came into consideration and all that we suggest them as Professor Sunday from Osijek and a number of other faculty professors who are involved at Josip Juraj Strossmayer University. But unfortunately, nothing ever. And your Slavonia, your Slavonia, so you're from that area too, so that's very sad for you to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77562	Next replica, Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77563	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Grubisic, you have warned of the procedure, tolerance and democracy. We have heard here that the rule of most of the measures is democracy and that there should be nothing disputed. However, we can ask one question as to what position, reputation and support these members of the Science, Education, etc. will have. when they are called on to support that they have, meaning their position, they should thank the ruling majority rather than the institutions from which they were proposed and who should be represented. And then the question is actually, when we ask it that way, you actually see how exclusive this position is, intolerant and doesn't want to hear other positions. Because the system of science, the system of education is far more complex, comes out of the party frameworks because it needs to be independent of current political ideology than measured by other criteria. And there's the key to the problem, but it obviously insists on an interpretation of democracy which will obviously be shown by its consequences very negative because it is intolerant.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77564	The replica matches Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77565	Thank you very much. Comrade Tudjman, yes, science is universal. It cannot depend on or be better or worse than the party therefore in case it is party-dedicated. Therefore, it should not even be party-colored in any colour, because the results, the scientific results do not depend at all on who is a member of any party, I will not now name any of them, any of the parties in Croatia. However, I did expect that here was one of the leading professors of the University of Osijek who might be proposing someone from Osijek from the University of Osijek, Josip Juraj Strossmayer. But it didn't happen, because there's this so-called. The doctor didn't suggest anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77566	New replica of House Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77567	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague Grubisic, I fully agree with you when you say it's not good that you get a list of names, and there's actually no resumes or anything. That's certainly not good. A colleague, Tomic, read some things from some résumés. But I'm still going to ask the question again because I don't think it makes any sense and I agree with the speakers who said science doesn't have and shouldn't have party or party any way you want signs, but it's universal. Either she is or she isn't. We can bid the numbers, we can say that someone has 50 papers. But what kind of work are these? Are these works in some local list of no value at all or are these three works in the world’s top magazine that is quite a difference. But the fact is, we didn't discuss those questions that I asked. Is it okay to say that out of 17 people, only two represent humanistic sciences? Is it okay that out of the 5 candidates of the entrepreneurship representatives of whom the three had a PhD in science, published scientific papers were proposed by those two who had no PhD in science, and one even any scientific degree or published work. By what criteria was it made? Is it okay to propose the dean of one high school, and the others were disqualified because they were deans, proctors, etc. And said they can't follow the rules because they're the heads of an institution. And now suddenly one leader can be proposed in the second category and certainly chosen. And I'll tell you what you and I know, you've got a list without any arguments, no résumés, and it's simply because it doesn't matter what we're talking about right now, an order has been issued and a list like that will be voted tomorrow. And unfortunately, we all know it together, but we all know it's not good and how good it's not gonna be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77568	The replica matches Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77569	Dear counterpart Reiner, that perhaps instead of this proposal, a Decision appointing the president and members of the National Council could be called as a provision on the appointment of presidents and members. Because this would be more like it because what you said about science and its party or party discolouration of science could actually be translated in that sense to say that politics infects and compromises science. Well, when someone deals or deals with politics, and with science, then clearly his policy works must also come at times in line for the evaluation here today in the Croatian Parliament. Well then, those policy works that were done in their time in ancient stories must be clearly and loudly expressed and those views that were then political and not scientific, it was not scientific, it was political action, clearly that we will evaluate it when we have a proposal for a decision or a decree on the appointment of presidents and members of the National Council. That's why there shouldn't be any alarms and that. There's nothing about the criteria that the Proposer has been up to. What are the criteria? Nothing. There's just a number of names and that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77570	The next replica honours Lidija Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77571	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's my colleague Grubisic, you've said several times in your debate that you haven't even seen the lives of the candidate at all, you've been talking almost all the time, and you've generally politicized. So I can conclude that your debate was only meant to politicise these names of scientists who were candidates. As a member of the board, I've got all the life-forms like all the other members, and I believe everyone interested that they wanted to be able to get the résumés of all the candidates, I've got them on the CD, and I'd be happy to pass them on to you by tomorrow's vote. I would also like to look back on, you tried to compromise the proposal of Mr. Smuić, so here I want to point out that he is incompetent, that Mr. Smocic has experience internationally, and in Great Britain he worked both in the United States and China. He is a member of the Scientific Council for Economic Development of HAZU, has 90 scientific papers, has 5 scientific books. So I hope before tomorrow's vote and you read those résumés, you'll have plenty of time and you won't just politicize who's on the left and who's on the right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77572	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77573	Thank you very much. My colleagues, even though you got the material, and you say I wanted it and I could have had the right to do it. Well, it's not my right to look for materials, but to get them on the bench so that as a parliamentary agent, I have the opportunity to discuss these or their or their qualifications today. Secondly, you read from your phone that Mr. Family, so you're from your cell phone, you didn't even know there were 90 scientific papers. Well, I've got 30 scientific papers, and I'm just a surgeon, so I'm not a specialist surgeon. I'm not any academic title. So even one who doesn't even have a college can publish scientific papers can have high school and scientific work. So it's not a matter of scientific work, it's a matter of quality. And why did I go back in time? Well, because I didn't believe my eyes or my ears when I saw who was proposed. Well, I remember those times, you're young, but I remember a time when that future president of the National Council was burning and burning in the sense that I was speaking in this country, or the former state of Yugoslavia. And I couldn't believe it was exactly the one that's coming back now after 25 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77574	Last line, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77575	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues Grubisic can only agree with colleagues and colleagues who have replicated before and who have told you to politicise this. One point that I don't think should be political. At this point, we should discuss the qualifications of these people, their scientific achievements and no policy at all. Because as far as I know, the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development is not a political body. Of course, that's where we propose people, scientists or people. And you have a scientist who has his own political opinions. Even in this high house, many scientists still sit. Here's academic Reiner, Dr. Tudjman, Dr. Tomic, Dr. Bagaric who are politically colored, though, because they are politicians but are also scientists. And what I'm interested in is, when we talk about these names, their qualifications or their scientific achievements. When we talk about stories from a long time ago, dear colleague, and we could talk about it in that hour, then no one is esculpated in the sense that I'm here with Mr. Family who came to the motion of a rectorial assembly as far as I know, so I don't care about his political background or what he's been doing in the past, but whether he's competent for this. If we talk about stories from a long time ago, dear colleagues here in this assembly have also talked about a long time ago. Well, some members of your club, by the way, some former, some present. And you say we all came from the SKH. Well, then you came from the right wing of the SKH because the HDSSB, as far as I know, took place after, or was formed after the split with HDZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77576	Answer, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77577	Thank you very much, dear colleague, for having so randomized the political scene of Croatia, so as you've only analyzed it nicely, and in a lot of things I would agree with you, I won't be insolent this time because we're from the same region, but that we can't talk about people who do science or deal with politics, that we can't talk about both elements of their activities. I haven't spoken privately to anyone who has children or has no children, has three wives or one wife. It's completely irrelevant to me. I speak of what man has dealt with, and what remains behind him, that is what I have spoken of. So if someone gets caught up in science and then the politics gets caught and then we're talking about both elements of their work, of their living work, and then we have to say it when it comes to such a high function as the President of the National Council for Science, High Education, Technological Development. There's no avoiding it. I really thought I was dreaming that after 25 years of war, I could see again one name marked by being marked, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77578	We're continuing an individual debate. He will speak to a respected colleague, Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77579	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would actually start with this question of what is the problem with this proposal for a decision to appoint a president, members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development. As I said in the discussion, the problem is that there are no minimum political correctness, political culture, and no keeping criteria, what do I mean by that? Unfortunately, I must repeat myself with the work of what Mr. Academyman Reiner has already said. When it comes to criteria, we go to what is most obvious and it is obvious that we all agree that out of 17 members we have only one woman in the situation, or out of the activity where the female population actually dominates, and it is simply not normal and it is not acceptable. On the other hand, the problem of representation. We have heard we have only two representatives from humanistic sciences and we know that exactly the biggest problems and earthquakes in the scientific community are this conflict on the one hand and on the criteria of scientific evaluation of natural and technical sciences on the one hand and on the other hand of social and humanistic sciences and having this imbalance in the very composition of the council is simply not good. On the third hand, the problem is, as we have seen, that conflict, or the attitude towards the proposings, is different. It would be normal for such a council to propose those segments of scientific and educational activities that have the most influence, which they have the most to say. No, here it's said, it doesn't matter, it's the party majority and what we decide, it's a democratic solution. But even then, in fact, those other criteria, I'm not going to mention now that academic Rainer is not respected. What are the consequences of such an approach now? We have seen that if I understand correctly or have already announced my departure, or have left this Committee work, an article would be helpful. We've seen a public reaction from the university's rector, so it's a conflict relationship with the university. Not going further into these implications should actually be seen in which position and what position it will be, with what assumptions the members of this council with what reputation, what status it will be, enter into solving the huge problems in which science and this entire education system are located. You're probably aware of the fact that the funding of scientific projects has nothing in itself that is one devastating fact. Other countries came out of crisis because they invested more resources in both science and education. We reduce them from year to year. On the other hand, there is no development strategy. How people will work if you don't have that strategy. This strategy cannot even be a party strategy, it must be adopted by such a consensus or at least in such a way that the change of government will not work from a deep point of view as is the custom here. You have a situation where up to 2.5 thousand scientific recruits are thrown or sent to the streets or sent abroad. Last year, the entire scientific community received only 20 new jobs. You have this belongs again to this segment because if I am not mistaken, the numbers are 460 doctors who have asked for a print of reflection from Croatia, a hundred more announcing them. There is no way that Croatia, of such a move, can dispute such a loss in a short time and this should be dealt with in one way or another by this scientific council, but it will do so with the mandate of the ruling majority. It's just not rational, it's not good. That way I can't get rid of it, we can't come up with one stable solution in times of crisis, in difficult times, we can't solve things over our knees, and that's what we want. Therefore, the issue of this and social dialogue and political dialogue here in the assembly, the social dialogue of scientific dialogue, is something to be asked for, which is expected if we want to have long-term development and long-term stability especially in one segment that should not or should not be politicised. And here it insists on the political dimension and the right to a political decision on who it will be. It's not the key to whether these 17 are, what they can or shouldn't blame, but the problem is how it comes to that and that's the key problem. Because I'm saying, there's probably another 10 of these in Croatia, 10 times the number of these people who, by the same criteria, could go in, but it's simply not respected and it doesn't want to work that way, so I say, you have conflicts already on the board, the consequences will be in the scientific community, because it's simply 2 and a half thousand scientific doctors being sent on the road or sent abroad to no system to evaluate one, though it's been withdrawn, but they've simply broken these relationships within the scientific community because there's not been a real solution to evaluate scientific work, etc. And in such a situation of violence, I think it's simply not good, it's going to have a lot more bad consequences than that system will then be effective.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77580	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First vice president of the House of Academics Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77581	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear fellow Tudjman, you have rightly mentioned one thing that has broader implications, which is, which I mentioned, which is that of the 17 board members only 2 will be from humanistic sciences. Why does it matter? Well, you have just highlighted the great problem of humanistic sciences and problems with the evaluation of scientific works in this area, etc. Let me pull one parallel. I didn't raise the question, and I didn't mention at all the president of the proposed National Council, but as long as his 90 papers were being mentioned, if the criteria of the majority in that committee were to be applied, then 15 versus 2, then it would turn out that, let's say, that president doesn't have any published work at all. If natural science criteria were applied, medical, medical sciences, etc. Of course, it is not applicable and, of course, it is not good to apply the criteria of one group of science to another, but if the other is not represented there with an adequate voice, so to speak, which can be advocated for the criteria of that group of science, the problem will inevitably arise. And that's the same thing we have to face and be aware of. But I have to mention something, there was this talk that that protest was a professor's protest.... Let's not kid ourselves, there's no saying that this is his private protest and the problem of him and the minister, it's a letter signed by the Zagreb University's rectory college, so the biggest university in Croatia, and in no case can we ignore him so easily just because it suits us so much at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77582	The replica matches a colleague named Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77583	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As far as this last one is concerned, the clear point is that this is about institutional relations, i.e. disrespecting institutions, and the Zagreb University means 60, 70,000 students and teachers. As for this conflict between social and humanistic sciences, on the one hand and natural and technical, it is not something that is our internal, this conflict has been going on for two centuries and there is no uniform solution, those countries that have tried to apply the standards of natural and technical sciences have simply been sown and have threatened their own development of social sciences and this conflict, this one trend simply exists in the current Ministry of Science and Education and reflects negatively on social humanities. And the clear thing is, what you're saying is, it's illogical and it's inadmissible in such a situation that out of 17 you have only two people who, regardless, I don't know what their views are about, but regardless of what they are, they can't fight for one balanced development, and that's, that's the key problems that seem to be that those who put together or decided on this list didn't care at all. Thus, the problems are far deeper, far more complex, but simply in this assembly we do not want to see and decide.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77584	The replica will be presented by a colleague named Gjurdzica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77585	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Professor, you've always been in one of my inner beings, but even those I know about myself and around me have appreciated scientists, but here's what you've been saying we couldn't do, but as academic Rainer used to say, there's a lot of people who are masters of science, doctors of science, doctored in various areas, in various areas, so, yes, now I won't, that's where I'm going to put the point. However, if the proposal is to be president of this council, I said not to repeat myself, and his... is that he was the chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Zagreb Holding which is now looming in debt, failure, bag with no bottom, failure, failure. Plinaro's down, Podravka's not yet. So if the gentleman in question has, among other things, gained some kind of scientific experience that will help all other young scientists of these 450 to return to their good fortune in this Croatia still live and work young scientists. And I hope that very soon will come the day when they will come back and show their mind here and use it for the benefit of Croatia, because unfortunately with such different proposals they are driven out of Croatia, among other things they can't find a job, and I can't exactly because there are suggestions I've already said, I won't name it, a science professor who doesn't have any such as suggested, as the SDP academic community has said, It's their proposal I agree with but it's their honor, and maybe they can't even tell the truth and what they think. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77586	The replica matches Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77587	You see what you said about candidates and their biographies, in my opinion there is a far more important segment missing, which is a projection of what kind of vision they have of work and the tasks of this National Science Council for Education and Technological Development. Even in these economic circumstances where we are all presently, the elections for the Rector of the Zagreb University are the candidates coming out with their projects, proposals and projections of the development or work at the university. We don't have any of that here. On the other hand, it is a purely test question that I would in this case ask such a candidate who is proposed. Last year, if I'm not mistaken, I asked the government what it will do with these 2.5 thousand scientific recruits, which are due to only open 20 new jobs at all universities in all scientific institutions in Croatia. The answer was that the previous policy was to blame for the financing of 2.5 thousand scientific recruits jeopardising the fiscal monetary system of the Republic of Croatia. I could never sign such an answer out of shame. Therefore, the question is whether these members of this Council for Science, Education, etc. Is that what they think of these scientific money, or these doctors who end up with whether it's a threat to the financial system, or is it one potential to build Croatia's future?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77588	The replica will now be presented by counterpart Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77589	Thank you, Vice President. I am truly sorry that you insinuate that this is some kind of violent decision by the party in power, thus insinuating that this is a political body. You are also persistently underestimating those candidates we have now proposed. But I must remind you, these people must not represent the institutions that have proposed them but the profession they are dealing with. Furthermore, I have to remind you because you keep saying that, only one woman is 8% of these candidates, only 15% of the women applied at all. You said there are a lot of better candidates somewhere in Croatia, I'm sure there are, but they didn't answer or anybody suggested them. Furthermore, all the time you point out that no equal representation of the area has been taken into account. I don't agree with that. Of the 11 people in Science 2 are from the field of humanistism. We have five areas that are represented here, so that's about it. Not everything could be satisfied with all the keys satisfied. A regional approach was also taken into account. I am sorry that my colleague Grubisic left, and I am very glad that a colleague from Osijek is here, unfortunately Osijek has proposed only two people. Why aren't they anymore, I don't know. The process really took a long time. And in the end, I never said that the majority of parties mattered, but that most people made decisions. At some point, a majority must make a decision, and we have indeed read all these résumés indeed. I'm sorry my colleague Reiner said I read some, I didn't really read it all myself, I was very interested. And in the end, I have 15 seconds, you said countries came out of crisis because they invested in science, and I agree with that. The problem is, our country went into a crisis because it didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77590	The replica matches Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77591	To start with this last one, it's true that it hasn't invested enough, but these years it's less than the previous years, so I think that argument is equally affecting both previous and current governments. On the other hand, I think what I said is you just confirmed it. I insinuate and you don't insinuate, how can it be? And I have my arguments to which I call, which other members have warned, and you have your arguments. I didn't tell you to insinuate, I simply said that this form of model that you suggest most people decide in this case when it comes to the whole system of science is not good because it produces conflicts. The fact is that you and the board members started out if I understood correctly, so I don't know if they've already resigned or announced their resignation, so you already have one conflict, one consequence, and it's only going to have all the way through the functioning of the scientific and educational system. You say and you get over it easily, so we can't meet all the criteria. But that just means that the decision, that there is more to be discussed, is still working on making such a sensitive issue a sound decision with which we can be, in the long run, counting that such a body you have, will be able to function in these congested circumstances, able to put the whole activity on a healthy basis. But it's obviously not just a goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77592	The last replica honours Lidija Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77593	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Tudjman, here you point out several times that this was a violent choice of members. Well, as a member of the board, I would like to point out that in two committees before that we discussed in two committee sessions how to choose and really wish, here's my personal wish was and I believe most if not all the board members that are really letting go out and a common position and to find candidates who will be chosen according to the criterion of excellence and by the criteria of representation of scientific areas. We almost made a deal. We agreed on most members. It was obviously stuck on one member who, as counterpart Tomic said, was elected. But I don't think that's why the entire scientific community is going to reverse the entire scientific community and the whole science as a whole. And the second thing I wanted to ask you is, here's what you've partially answered, which is not clear to me, because as a board member, I don't have that information that any of the members resigned. If you have any more information than we have as board members, so I'd like you to tell us in public that it's not politicized without an argument, do I personally have no information that any of the board members resigned from that position? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77594	The answer to the line by Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77595	I refer to what academic Rainer said today in his debate, so if I'm not a member of the board, I can't know, it is. Therefore, it is not my fault that I, you did not use the term insinuate or invited to a violently as you said the choice, but you do have a letter, for example, a letter from the university's rector on behalf of the rectorial assembly sent to the president of the Parliament. Hence, problems are obviously far more complex than they want to show for themselves here. And the problem, take what's with 2.5 thousand scientific recruits, which is that you don't have the funding of scientific projects, which is that you don't have a strategy for scientific development and that's what this is about. And now you're going to say, not so we're 17 good people. It is not the key, but it is the key to selecting people who will have the support of a series of institutions to do the job, and that is the issue of one political insensibility, the lack of a culture of tolerance to come to a common solution and to form such a committee, i.e. the National Council, for science and higher education.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77596	The last individual debate, respected Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77597	Thank you very much. So here we are, taking part in the preparation of this proposal through the committee's work, just a few principles. Every priority of civilization is actually about social progress, and there is no social progress, i.e. the assumption of social progress is science and scientific activity. And these are the generators of the development of society as a whole. Therefore, although the policy is responsible for the situation in each segment of society, it is not desirable to introduce world-wide criteria into any part of it, but it is least desirable to introduce world-wide criteria into scientific activity because there are the most devastating consequences. That's why a consensus is needed on those things that affect the future of a nation. And when we talk about science, it certainly determines the future to a good degree. And it was tried on the board by talking through several meetings, established criteria that should have been accepted in general, but it got stuck on one case and I'll talk about it a little later. And it's not good for anywhere to express political violence, and in the perseverance of one, only one candidate can't get the impression that, in part, in a certain way, there was still a present, present action of political violence. So much science and higher education has difficulty, so much burden on its back, so many negatives there and politics shouldn't close their eyes on it, let alone produce new ones. We mustn't close our eyes that corruption is amongst the universities involved in higher education institutions. Unfortunately, the actions of state institutions also testify. The high schools didn't prove to be the best solution, the first-graders seem to have studied for the Employment Service, for what are they qualified to do when they get the name first grader of something? The magistrate only had economic sciences for thousands without ever seeing the Faculty of Economics, studied the Faculty of Economics. I don't know what it would look like to be a society where there would be thousands of masters of law, legal science without studying law or in any other area. The lack of practical work in the higher education system is hardly mentioned. The previous National Science Council never mentioned it, never dealt with it, and that's a huge problem. Forty-four thousand young people are currently highly educated at the Employment Service. Someone spent money, I can't say for nothing, because people are getting better, but they feel miserable because they feel unnecessary in this society and there's no worse feeling than finishing school and feeling incompetent and unwanted. The dean's choices are what they've turned into, and that's what we close our eyes on, in colleges. You can imagine the situation that up to 15% of council members are students and extraordinary teachers are not members of the council and do not participate in the selection of deans. And politics shouldn't close their eyes either. They do not correspond to the teaching chamber, not the relevant programme, the call elections, the works are mystified. Scientific work and teaching work should be linked but this should be distinguished. And in that I expect a great role of the National Council for Science. And that's why I wanted every effort to reach a consensus in the work of the board. I've read the resume, read the recommendations, and in principle I can never accept the selection of a person that none of the scientific community has proposed but has proposed itself. And there was only one such candidate, and he's the one who's elected, and he's not the one who chooses to be an academic. If the criterion of excellence is scientific, if the criteria are comprehensive, then it should certainly be taken into account and provenance in previous work. And this particular person who suggested herself couldn't possibly get the advantage of some other candidates, she shouldn't have... And if that were to work out a deal, we'd already be very close to consensus. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, it insisted on that candidate who proposed himself. And therefore, it is true what counterpart Reiner said, I heard personally where a prominent member of the scientific and community, a prominent member and the Committee on Science and Higher Education, and a member of the ruling coalition, personally announced to the chairman of the board that he had resigned precisely because of this sort of thing. Because as a scientific worker, he couldn't resort to this one general political attitude that was probably based only on a piece of paper and not on some kind of scientific argument. The work of the Committee and the preparation of this National Science Council have seen great shortcomings in the law itself. I tried to point them out just a few, but isn't it a little bizarre that after two years of being elected members, some will be elected to four, some to two years. He says it's just a transitional period. Well, it is not the scientific community of the Croatian lottery to get something out of the hat or out of the drum, we will decide by draw who will have a mandate of 2 years and who 4 years. 40% of the members of the National Council under the current law are not members of the academic community and the scientific community at all. I know they belong somewhere, but their place is less in one of these, one of the highest bodies to the National Council of Science, Higher Education and Technology. And as many as 40% of the members are selected from the ranks of entrepreneurs or businessmen who do not have much to do with scientific work but who would have anything to say about the education system but I think they have too much influence and too many. That's all to be taken care of. And I think that this role of the National Council for Science and Higher Education is more demanding than it seems. They always say that other people's grass is greener and that the worst in their own garden but there are no segments that do not suffer from children's diseases in society, but it seems to me that the relationship between society and politics with science and higher education is not appropriate, that it should be changed and that it can contribute most to such an independent body as the National Council for Science and Higher Education and therefore should have been chosen in a slightly different way rather than by voting the will of just one political option. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77598	Now we'll hear more replicas. The first one will be presented by Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77599	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear fellow Maric, you have actually mentioned some of the problems, but I would like to point out that it is not and we cannot understand that the problem is exclusively in who will be president of that council, that it is not only a problem that one academic is not selected or selected. The problems are multiple, but they're trying to ignore each other. I've mentioned some, I haven't heard the answers anywhere because, of course, it's like verbal flashes trying to blur it out. I'll redefine them. So are we all aware that in the highest body to decide on the strategy of science, education in the Republic of Croatia, etc., one member will be a person who has not published any scientific work and has no scientific degree, and a number of university teachers, academics, etc. will not be members. So let's be aware of that, that's the choice. Let's be aware that under the economy company inside, a man who works at the State's Attorney's Office will be selected. So let me know who can convince me that the State's Attorney's Office is part of the economy and since what segment of the economy. The third thing, it was clearly stated in the rules, and that's the interpretation of the government that came to us, that the heads of the facility couldn't be inside, the deans, the proctors, the rectors. However, there were two candidates, they said they couldn't, not at all, and when there's a high school dean on the list. What happens when these guys start complaining? Be aware of that, it may be a serious problem, a public problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77600	The replica matches Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77601	Thank you very much. Of course, fellow Reiner, that the problems are multiple and layered and that I can't come down to just one or one, but not every one can go out, so here through the replicas we can add to that. Why, you mentioned the problem in the election criteria, because the most important criteria were not respected. It must not be one criterion, but the most important excellence and scientific contribution was not respected in the election, and that is the key, that is the starting point. If we skip that criterion then it's not worth any more of each other and then it's an impossible mistake, then it's necessary and it's the only consequence that's normal. When you talk about entrepreneurs or businessmen and the law predicted that the same is quite, quite frankly, that two council members are elected from the area of entrepreneurship and two members from the area of the economy. We've chosen those four members all of a sudden because we don't know what entrepreneurship is, and what an economy is. Which members are from the economy, which are from entrepreneurship. It's not defined, so we don't even know today that we've chosen, whether it's the one chosen from entrepreneurship or from the economy, it's not known from the proposal of this that came out here. We also know that the union's representative participates without the right to vote. I don't know what the function or anything like that is. And the problems are even more complex, so imagine hyperinflation of high schools and hyperinflation of study programs that have never been shown by the National Council. 1,100 and some of Croatia's study programmes have 4 million inhabitants.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77602	The second line is a colleague of Đurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77603	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Maric, I listened very carefully. You pointed out in your discussion a series of problems related to science, about study and so on. In fact, you know very well that when elected, when outside members of our committees are elected, they are chosen according to the criteria and it is common and writes so on the proposal or scientific institution or association or some other association. It's just embarrassing when someone suggests themselves, that means no one's standing behind him, namely no one's gonna back him up. That's inadmissible. And then a fellow respected Tomic says that they too, their academic community of SDP, means they choose the man behind whom no one stands, you did well. So this isn't about the criteria of excellence, and maybe even where there was a poor man in that Holding that he was an economist holding failed, so PLINACRO. Maybe this is a reward you know the academic community of SDP to a respected gentleman so in some way here's an attempt to fail now everything and all the science and education and all we can do is destroy it a little bit because I wouldn't agree with you if it wasn't important in such a choice, that it wasn't important in that choice and that this criterion doesn't have to be one national awareness. It's very important to me, and I think we should respect that as well. I do not want to say that in a party, i.e. the SDP or HDZ, all honest people are sitting, but when a leading man is elected in such an institution, then he must be moral among other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77604	The replica matches Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77605	Thank you very much. Comrade Sumrak, you yourself have said when the outside members are elected that they should be proposed and that there has never been a situation where someone has been elected as an outside member of the board, and that he himself has proposed. It's an impossible situation, never happened or will happen. ... We'll disable it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But I don't have anything against a person personally. Maybe he's got all the qualifications and his resume is impressive. It's not at all controversial. But in principle, by choosing the National Council for Science and Higher Education, without being supported and proposed by anyone from the scientific community and the higher education field, but himself, and this particular person is chosen in principle, I find the model unacceptable. As regards members of the council and selecting members of the Syndicate Council, they are one of the most dangerous occurrences in society, especially if this would be for members of the National Council for Science and Higher Education. According to some indicators that it seems that individuals have actually brought sinicure with them and that is not good, some would seem to me to conclude how unargumented it was on individuals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77606	A colleague of Lidija Bagaric will also replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77607	Thank you. Well, my colleague Maric, I would first like to point out that I am extremely glad that you, as an opposition board member, agree with my statement that we were really trying to agree, draw up a common position and that we have been able to agree on almost all members except one member. So we're talking about one member of them 17. And I don't think this debate today is going to do any good to Croatian science, nor to all of us together to degrade all these other members that we have essentially agreed on that we all agree that they are good candidates to elect members to this National Council. So we understand that this debate would not go the other way. And the second thing I was going to say is that there's too little of the academic community, so the goal was to make the businessmen part of it because it's always said that there's no connection between science and the economy, that there's insufficient cooperation. So this was just one way of putting together the heads of the economy and the entrepreneurs and the academic community to think better about how to connect them in the future. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77608	Replication response, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77609	Thank you very much. My colleague Bagaric, the facts are not discussed. This is the fact that you said in your debate, and I'm just stating the facts. But one is an attempt, and another is an achievement. We tried, but we didn't make it. We tried to make a consensus and deal. However, it was not just one member, but one member and the president. And as for the owners and the entrepreneurs, it is worth hearing from everyone's voice. But doesn't it seem to you that 40% of the members of the National Council are from entrepreneurship and economy without being defined exactly what it is. Isn't that a little too much? Maybe two more members and 51%, and they'll completely ignore science. I think they have something to say about higher education, but right about science, science, scientific research, I think there's a little less to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77610	A new replica, dear Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77611	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Maric that you may have said the same thing in your discussion that there is too little number, too many entrepreneurs and businessmen. I'm not sure I can agree with that, but when it comes to what academic Rainer has warned that as an entrepreneur or a businessman someone from the State's Attorney's Office is elected, then all that makes sense. Why? If someone under the patronage of the party's majority were to say so because they are, then democracy is that who has made up their mind, then they are responsible politically and for who has decided. Because what would happen to the businessmen from all 40% in that council? They could seek what most countries have to free the economy from giving this or that form of tax. So that space can be freed. Also, with another example of what would happen if there were people who represent certain institutions so that they say, that they come from the university, so to say listen instead we have a restriction of receiving into the state administration but the ruling set is she invented that rotating door where they enter with them and go allegedly out after the end of the mandate. If the one from the university said listen, here you have two and a half thousand doctors of science, so take them to the state administration, so let the state administration at least be educated or educated at the highest level. And that whole system actually shows that it makes sense and that this choice and this choice of candidates with responsibility not to their discipline or to other scientific and educational institutions, but to those who choose them, then the system makes sense. And it looks like our own or my own personal naivety is so politically that it's constantly being restored year after year.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77612	Replication response, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77613	Thank you very much. Comrade Tudjman, anything that's imagined the effects of this depends on implementation. But in principle, I've been saying everything in principle. It is in principle for the debate to open a debate to determine how much a part of society should be represented in something. Is it 40, from the economy and entrepreneurship or 30 or 20 or 60. You can't decide that without having to discuss it at all. I'll accept the argument that's always justified and respect it. But this is without any analysis. So as far as it's specified without an analysis I've shown the information that a selected person from the State's Attorney's Office has been chosen. And as for the very Association of Employers, I think she's really represented everywhere. The Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Employers' Association has its external members in almost every board of the Croatian Parliament. There are almost all institutions in the Supervisory Board, from HBOR and beyond. They're everywhere, and so are they. But I'm opening the question, isn't it a little bit maybe a percentage too big? Just like I opened the question and the students to choose the dean. It may not be a place or a time, but how is it possible, for example, in Osijek or Rijeka, that students make up 20% of the councils elected by the dean, and in Zagreb, at the same college makes up 5%? It's not good, it's politics and the state left the case. You can't leave it to the case. And then who chooses the Dean? Will we hear the student's voice? Well, it's good to hear the student voice but it's not good for students to choose it and make most deans with students. I don't think that's a good phenomenon. And that's already going that way. If one of the 100 council members has 25 students, then what's he going to manipulate them and be elected Dean? And on that, neither the National Council nor my eyes shut. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77614	New replica, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77615	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I like to listen to your debates because you always give a good review of the facts. We don't always agree on the conclusions you draw from them, but I think you're really arguing your debates, and I like that very much about you. You've spent a lot of your debate talking in general, so on the state of the system of higher education and science, I would refer to that only in a few words. I absolutely agree with you that we need a consensus on some strategic issues. Unfortunately, however, we cannot reach consensus on such issues. Here's an example, a strategy for entrepreneurship development. The first time we've brought it in since the Croatian state existed, and we haven't even been able to bring it by consensus. 87 votes in six abstentions. So, I guess that speaks enough about our political culture of consensus. I'm glad that a lot of the problems you've raised actually I agree with you absolutely. So first-graders, Bologna's generally been introduced in a catastrophic manner, and I think that we can, by consensus, actually determine. Like the Croatian National Education Standard and all the reforms you're trying to pass overnight and say "Puj-Pik" it doesn't apply anymore let's go back to the beginning now something quite different is finally being shown as bad. You have a situation where our colleges, I unfortunately witnessed it from the employer's perspective, produce, say, graduate economists who don't know how to fill you in on a general payment, who don't know how to write an offer. It's catastrophic. And that is why I agree with you that one part of practice and work should therefore be an integral part of the study. It is currently in debate, and I hope that we will also bring this through a consensus strategy for the development of education, higher education and science, and that should then be the starting document for all other legal solutions that will refer to the education system, I hope, as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77616	The replica matches Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77617	Thank you very much. My colleague Hajdukovic, you've said so much, I don't know if I'm going to catch everything. Of course around all the important, important things a consensus is needed but if there is no consensus then there will be consequences that changes are common. And the change is often not good in any system. And why, you mentioned entrepreneurship, so just remember how the Minister of Entrepreneurship violently changed the Law of Turn. Then how do you reach a consensus about it? Cancel membership without analysis. Maybe I'm in for a cut or a cut, but let's talk about it, let's think about whether it's smart or not. What do we get, what do we lose, what will be the consequences? And if the conclusion is that it will be positive it will always be, so it must be supported by what is positive. But without argument only to pass the law to change that I can never agree to it without analysis and without assessing the realisation of the effects of these changes. One is reform, the other is change. Reform means changing the situation for the better, and change is just changing the state. I'm for reform, not change. I'm glad you said something about Bologna, but has anyone else taken responsibility for this situation? It's nobody. Has anyone analyzed this situation? No, I don't. What we're going to do to fix the situation, to solve this problem, there's still no solution to that problem. You were also talking about economists who end up, and they don't have practical work. Well, of course, they don't know most of them don't know the bill more than 100 or less. They don't know if the invoice is 180 thousand kuna, which is VAT, and what's the base, they can't calculate most. Well, of course, no more economic colleges, no more political economy, no more major colleges, and no more economic analysis of the business of the most important colleges. It's someone who's willing to shut them down, but they need to be returned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77618	The last replica in this debate will be presented by Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77619	Thank you, Vice President. Here we go with some kind of colleague. I'm not going to praise you like my colleague Hajdukovic did, but I'm signing everything he said in that section so I don't repeat it. Namely, here he is, and colleague Tudjman told us how much I realized that this story with the masters could talk about it. I personally think that four businessmen in this body are a good thing, especially since they are three scientists. And all the time in that category, one name that's been mischosen for one reason or another. But I have to tell you five candidates were elected four. And the practical method of elimination, one candidate just dropped out and the other one's in front of a doctorate. But we're going on more important issues. There's one thing I have to tell you, in the fifth month there's a competition for 250 new post-doctorates. Of those 2,000 76 recruits mentioned by many before you and you all were secured employment. You'll see, people are going to retire on that, and they're taking care of it. I have to tell you the same thing, I don't want to praise anyone, but be careful that's a fact, we said that we could talk about facts, the Ministry of Science has made 115% of the plan come true when it comes to withdrawing funds. And the first 40m euros from the Structural Funds are coming right for science. And I have to tell you in these two years, the budget has only grown for science, the crisis, but only for science has grown. Furthermore, we also mentioned the bologna. I was a participant of those times, a very badly defined and hyperinflation that occurred as a consequence and actually occurred at the time of the Primorac and Fuchs, ministers. And in the end, we stand for consensus, and I absolutely agree that when it comes to science, when it comes to education, we come to some consensus that unfortunately is not always possible. But here's the education strategy. She's done. It will be addressed to the government and the Parliament, let's find that consensus. It is the Assembly that will confirm that strategy in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77620	The last answer to the last line, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77621	So, fellow Tomic, when you're ready for a consensus, pull this proposal and we'll make a new one. Not for one, you just mentioned here and three, I didn't want to list it all, but here are three already disputed. But imagine how much we would solve the difficulties and disagreements if this proposal were withdrawn and a new consensus proposal came to light. How much would we save this society's negativity? You're talking about consensus and you're calling for a consensus on the strategy and with the Minister of Science who performs as he does, who calls out the ignorant, the ones that no one should ever call ignorant. How to reach a consensus, how to reach a consensus with someone who doesn't talk, who doesn't open topics that violently introduces, tell me who analyzed the elimination of grades in high school, who even analyzed whether it's good or bad, so we don't need to analyze so much that they know it's one inconspicuous mistake that can't be estimated, but someone's thought of, a minister or someone, we go to a midterm, there's no grades. What are the consequences of that? Well, I don't care what the consequences are, that's how I act, but it's gone. Let's see if it's smart or not, and if it only sat down once on that subject to talk, everyone would find that it's not smart, that it's stupid, not bad, but stupid. Detimizing students, learning nothing optional, and only hoping that at the end of the year they will give their grades. So they go to school instead of being stimulated and rewarded for their work. Something like that violent and then in other segments, I can't really support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77622	I'm concluding a debate on this agenda item. Tomorrow we'll start at 10 o'clock and that vote on the debated points. Thank you very much. Goodbye! Proposal for a decision on the appointment of presidents and members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the appointment of presidents and members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development. Who's in? Who's against it? Let me run the session. When you have a parliamentary majority, when you hold a session, then you will decide. I'm asking who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I note that 77 votes in favour and 29 votes against 1 vote, so the decision to appoint the president and members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development is contained in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Here you go, pal Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77624	Mr. Chairman, I wanted to speak before the vote, and I don't know why you didn't let me do that. I still wanted to talk about what was the subject of the vote and I wanted to explain why I wouldn't vote for it. [[Intruder Stazić: We closed the debate yesterday.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77625	Comrade Flego, the debate is closed. There was a debate yesterday, and you could talk about the case in the context of the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77626	I couldn't speak in the context of the debate because yesterday during the debate, I discussed the relationship between Ukraine and Russia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-10-0.u77627	I'm very sorry, but once the debate is concluded, I can't open it, it's quite clear. So I respect that you would have something to say about this case, but unfortunately you couldn't because you had other obligations and you weren't in the House. Thank you all. I am concluding the 12th session of the Croatian Parliament. Goodbye.
