ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u89413	Dear fellow MPs, respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, continue at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. We have said I would already have a traditional one-handed hand in the air. Dear Representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u89414	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In order not to lose the tradition, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the DC, Novi Val and the People's Party of Reformists, I am looking for a break because of the situation which is rolling tomorrow in Split on the coast of Split, which according to the position of our club, especially my colleague, Jakša Baloevic, and I am not harmless at all. It's about an announced demonstration of fans in Dalmatia and please take a break on behalf of the club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u89415	I'm writing Reformists, Peter Baranovic. HDSSB, Boro Grubisic. Thank you very much. Branko Vuksic. Are you picking up? HDZ, Ivan Schuker. Well, John Shuker answered. How do I know who will? Jadranka Kosor. Thank you very much. I'm setting a break by 9.45, considering the subject is extensive and that the deal should be made. Thank you very much. At 9.45. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] And I invite him for a pay phone to present his position on behalf of the DC club, the wave and the People's Party of Reformers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u89417	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office. It's not just the morning tradition of this break on behalf of the club, but it's also a matter of one situation that we have to react to no matter how banally and benignly it's affected someone. A demonstration of Heiduk fans was announced on the Split Riviera tomorrow. They share it naively, but this House has to talk about the truth in Croatian sport, about what is happening and about the situation that even in the space of sport that should be the place of gathering we come to a paradoxical situation to become the starting point of separation. I will say openly on behalf of Dalmatia and in this case and discrimination, that sport becomes a place where things that are not acceptable to a civil society and to a legal state happen. The fact is that the Croatian Football Federation is a broken guitar that even FIFA writes about on several occasions, that the time has come to clean things up in that house, that the time has come for this house to be depoliticized, that the time has come for Croatian football to be placed on healthy feet. We have been witnessing for many years that Croatian football has become an affair space, that Croatian football has become a separation mechanism, not a gathering, that through Croatian football, situations can be initiated that can end upside down and that Croatian football clubs are generators of lawlessness, non-payment, disrespect of affairs and all that. The best case is my Croatian football club Sibenik, which was brought by politics not only to the third league, but also to the pillar of shame because of unpaid bills not only to the state, but also to entrepreneurs and businessmen who have been providing him with services all these years. Following this and the message sent by Sibenik fans, the Sibenik Foundation once our fellow to leave football. Let's get my policy message out of the sport. The time has come on behalf of the club I appeal and I am sending a message to the Croatian Government, to the Secretary-General and to all those ministers who are concerned about starting to create a new legislative framework that should serve as a basis and leverage for sports reform, to depolitise sports and to bring sport into its true social role. Ladies and gentlemen, this doesn't make any sense anymore. What are we waiting for? That tomorrow at some demonstration like the Split Riva or the day after tomorrow someone else gets their heads smashed and someone loses their lives. There's not even the slightest room to step away from responsibility. We are responsible for creating relationships in this society, we are responsible for the creation of laws, we are the ones who have to create assumptions that in this society normally function. No handwashing, we're not in Pontius Pilate's position. Is all this happening in Croatian football in correlation with the presence of a party in the Football Union and its domination all these years I will not be concerned with speculation. There are no innocents in the presence of sports politics, but we have to start sometime. Once we have to start and let this be the beginning of a positive engagement of Croatian politics on sports reform and putting sport into its true role until it is too late, until on our conscience and conscience of all those who have sat in this honorable House for the last 20 years there is no one's life, someone's lost head because we have done nothing. On behalf of the DC Club, the New Wave and the Reformist Open Message to the Croatian Government and the Executive Authority, gentlemen, let's go to sports cleaning and sports reform. Sports don't deserve this condition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u89418	Thank you too, dear colleague. On behalf of the HDSSB, the Club of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, respected representative Boro Grubisic on the same topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u89419	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yesterday we discussed the most important document of the Croatian state – the budget of the Republic of Croatia, today the most important secondary thing in the world. But here's the situation, so let's say something. There are in Slavonski Brod, which has a county third-countryer, once known BSK, and later Marsonia, who was also in first league qualifications back in Yugoslavia, the former state, and later well positioned on the second-litter table. He's in the county league today. It's much worse than this Sibenik club that's kept me from saying the city that's twice as small as Slavonski Brod. Well, Slavonski Brod, which is the sixth or seventh largest city in Croatia, has no other leaguers. In Slavonia there is only one first leaguer, there are two or three other leaguers in Slavonia. And we have no demonstrations in Osijek, neither in Slavonski Brod, nor in Nova Gradišca, nor anywhere. On one occasion, a graphite in Slavonski Brod in Andrija Hebrang's settlement reads as follows: "Sport against knowledge". Maybe if we went a little deeper on that graphite, we'd come to a lot of conclusions. So this reunion on the waterfront when we think about it and hear the statements of some who have already fallen into politics, I wouldn't be surprised to see some of the presidential candidates show up on the waterfront tomorrow along with the fans. Why is it that right now at this time I'm showing up to say this initiative behind which some people who have been looking a little deeper through history have been dragged into some affairs and have appeared on Croatian television in interviews and where they spit on everything that is right and wrong. Who are the people who, at the cost of the 3-0 score against Croatia, so in Milan, insist on the end of the game by throwing the torch, not only by throwing it but by firing it out of those machines, I don't know what it looks like at all. What kind of people who don't like Croatia so much that they'd like to break up the team game and let UEFA register with 3-0 against Croatia? How much does that hate have to be to do that? Or how much frustration may be in some because of the situation in Croatian football that some people would say they might be in despair? But when you watch the videos, and they're very short, from Milan, then you'll see that those who fired and threw torches at San Sir have none of the Croatian features as a fan. They're all people in some dark jackets, in dark coats, and the question is, who are they and whose provocators are they? Let's think about it, I know transparency isn't a feature of HNS or any of the clubs, but not one club and the way one club is organized can be a role model for everyone else. And they force it. I think I'm clear on what I'm talking about. So, it would have to be Osijek and Dinamo, all the clubs that fans don't know how to finance or share in the club. So why would one club be a role model for other clubs? And why is it forced this time even on the edge of a gathering? It reminds me of a little bit of the waterfront and the demonstration on the waterfront and it speaks on the edge of something else, and it reminds me of a time when there was a speech on the edge of a variety of species. That is why I do not say that, nor do I want to say at all, but I want as transparently as it is on the pages of the Ministry of Justice or of any ministry, Croatian highways to see projects and all together that the HNS also has a website on which everything is seen, the arrival of money, the entry of money, the cost and everything else. If the HNS had responded in time, if he had answered questions that or if he had appeared in public and other television shows to explain the matter, the situation might have been different. But we also see now that they're softening me to say both sides in this case suddenly here we have a parliamentary debate about it. I think this Parliament passed the Law on Sports, passed the Law on Fans, the former sports minister is and Deputy Minister Mr. Skansi has established sports inspections. And we have it all, and we've framed it in the legal frameworks, and nothing is actually being implemented. Where is this mistake, whose fault is it, whose sin is it? But in any case, they cannot understand Croatians and people, no matter where they come from, from the north or from the south, to try to ruin the efforts and results of the Croatian team. On the side of the HNS, on the side of Shuker, not this one here but this one there in HNS and on the side and Dinamo and Hajduk and aside all other clubs and Rijeka and Osijek and all. I can't figure these people out and who's behind them? If there's any among these mobsters and mobsters like there are in some structures of the HNS, it'll show time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u89420	Thank you, too. Time's up, no matter how flammable the cheerleading is. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic on behalf of the Club Linic, Hodzic, Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u89421	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the issue now is whether to talk about it in the Parliament, I think it should, but not only because of the occasion mentioned by counterpart Baranovic, which is the protest of fans on the Split Riviera, but because of the situation in Croatian sports in Croatian stadiums because there are no innocents. There are no innocents in sports, politics, and the repressive apparatus. I'll talk far beyond that. Football is, for example, HRT would say Shakespeare mirror society and mirror the situation of riots in the state. Boro Grubisic just said we have all the laws and we could follow all these laws. Not once in Croatian stadiums when even the president of the state and some other officials were leaving the stadiums there was an outpouring of hate speech. Did we interrupt the games? Are the stadiums empty? Tell me, you certainly know how they solved the problems in British, English football, in which way. Are we able to do that? We didn't. For what? Because politics are used by sport, sport is used by fans. And just remember all those people who were on the lists, supporting individual parties from the left and right of those who are making a mess in Croatian sports and who are protagonists of hate speech. Therefore, what is done in Croatian sport is what is done in Croatian politics. And we're going to say that now, they're charged after those torches in Italy, they're charged with some shows, texts. And what's going to happen? Nothing's gonna happen. The first hate speech at the Croatian stadium will go the same with a little halabuca, and so we go from year to year until there is some excess, and until there is a really big accident in that excess. The fact that football club leaders, I won't mention any names today, would it be unfair for those who say words for judgment and the media to be used by them as main stars from day to day and not condemn that way, one day condemning, the other day putting that man on the front page and making him a star, without him there's no football or without football. Unfortunately in the world, even in Asia when I was for some football players, Croatia was the only one who knew about football players who didn't deserve to know each other, they played good football, but in football they do mess and disgrace Croatian football in a way that manages it, and throws a shadow in their name. So what's going on in the stadiums is the result of the inaction of the state, the result of the inaction of the repressive apparatus, the result of the fact that we're passing laws in this high house, and we're simply letting ourselves go that the laws aren't being respected. Who respects Croatian laws, no one, we pass laws and in other words here is the Minister of Justice, and today we will talk about two laws which also found that laws are not implemented once. So don't have a good time, either. It is absolutely certain that what is going to happen on the Split coast that we cannot condemn in advance, that people are entitled to a gathering, to a peaceful gathering, and I hope that it will be a peaceful gathering, and to their messages, I hope that they will send policy messages and that there will be a constructive assembly, that there will be no rivals that we will be ashamed of. But we should be ashamed of a lot of what happens first of all in Croatian football, let it be seen what happens, how it cheers at hockey or some other sports. However, I repeat politics is used in sport and sport is used to hooligans not fans, because it would be worth it, with a handful of hooligans that harm both sport and Croatia and themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u89422	Thank you very much. Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor on behalf of the club HGS and Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u89423	Thank you very much, Mr. President. That someone might be made that this topic is completely unnecessary as the topic we are talking about in the Croatian Parliament at all, but I join those who consider that sport in general, and then we also need to talk about football in politics because politics and sport are tightly connected and sport is part of life, so it's part and politics. And football is like the saying of the most important side thing in the world. Which is why there's a sport, which is why football, for the audience, for the gathering, for the joy, for the pleasure, for the relaxation. If there is no audience then football and sport generally loses absolute and complete meaning. The situation in football that reflects on society or if you want the situation in society, and then frustration, youth unemployment is of course reflected on politics but certainly also on football, or football stadiums, among fans. It's a fact, a hot one, an event that's scheduled to end well with excellent messages, I believe it will be, but it doesn't have to. And every big gathering with messages being sent to others, politicians, others, other fans, other clubs can end with messages we won't be satisfied with. Whoever is the most responsible, certainly Croatian Football Federation, is always the most responsible one in whose home a problem has happened or in whose backyard a problem is happening and what we have as a finding today, that the head man and organisation of Mr. Davor Schuker is a great football player by whom they recognize us in the world, however I came everyone has always mentioned football and always Davor Shuker. But he's gone, and there's no telling if he's in Thailand, whether he's in the Caribbean or in London, it's completely irrelevant. At a time when we face really big problems and when Hajduk fans join and always faithful, and those who seek a single vote in Dinam, Mr. President of the HNS is gone. I'm gonna mention that saying that may not be very good, but it always comes to me, she says, "That village burns and the grandmother combs." So Mr. HNS's president would have to be here and he'd have to talk about the insult, about everything that's going on as an unkind phenomenon, he'd have to talk about insulting common sense because it's his duty and it's his job. So, we want a sports message to happen tomorrow in Split and, of course, the Croatian Parliament has a commitment as the most representative and legislative body to consider whether there is anything else we can do through the amendments to the law, whether there is anything else we can do to make things more clear in order for the laws to be clearer and more firm, but we must be aware that what is happening today is not only the result of events in football, events in sport, but also in society in general. So, we do not have to wait as Mr Baranovic, a colleague of Baranovic, invited to do something, and we in the Parliament can sit down and discuss the laws that are the framework and, I ask you, my colleague Schuker, not to throw it away. I'm asking you nicely. So we can sit down ourselves, we can consider what can be done and make conclusions, if necessary and change the laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u89424	Thank you, too, dear colleague Kosor, but I am asking you now that, colleague Shuker, please allow us to continue in the democratic parliamentary tone, regardless of what I always believe that these individual appearances do not solve the problem because others cannot participate because they are not prepared and they cannot even give out solutions from the sleeves on serious matters. I'm not reducing the problem, but I want to say that in Croatia, it seems to me, at the big door, a rule that is not democratic. Whoever isn't with us is against us. Secondly, for the sake of the Croatian public, and most of all for Croatian athletes, it is not and is not just a sport of administration and leadership, sport and sisters Zaninović, sport and Kostelici, sport and Philip Ude and gymnasts, sports are both water and football players and handball players. Absolutely. So, without singleing out anyone I want to point out that with black white technique, we're not going to find a solution or help sports. Secondly, what I also want to say is that organisations, sports organisations are not political organisations and should be removed from politics and the count of party cards. It's our task, it's our constitutional obligation. It won't end up counting only in sports clubs, it could end up even in hospitals, then we questioned the fundamental social value of the rule of law and the rule of law. Now I'm going to say immodestly that respected fans and athletes, please don't let yourself get involved in games of any leadership, alliance or organization. Keep what is most beautiful in sports, sports spirit and fair competition. So much for this. And now we will continue to work in accordance with the scheduled agenda. This is a proposal, i.e. - Final draft law amending the Law on the Payments of Judges and Other Judicial Officers, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 740 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. The amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received a report from these working bodies of the Croatian Parliament at the session. Does the representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia wish to further explain? Yeah. Honorable Justice Minister Orsat Milenic. Here's a colleague of Milenić's.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94287	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Just a few dots. So, first of all, why the emergency procedure? Because we have a decision of the Constitutional Court by which we must resolve this matter by 15 December, so that is the reason for the emergency procedure. What are the changes? The changes are two important, but they don't really change anything. One thing is that I think that the Constitutional, therefore, proposal for... constitutionality would have been submitted by the Croatian Association of Judges many years ago, and it concerns who should and how to regulate the salaries of judges. So far, the basis has been determined by the government's regulation as well as all others, but given the view of the Constitutional Court that this should be a parliamentary matter, so the matter of the Parliament, we here are the same basis that has been laid down by the regulation so far, we are putting into law. And that's the most important change. So, all that's left so far is the same because she's in lipo prescribed here in law. I'm not going to get into it, the opportunism of that or not, the simple decision of the Constitutional Court is that we're going to carry it out. I think the solution so far has been better, but I repeat these decisions are not discussed but implemented. The second thing was to compensate for the material costs of transport, etc., it was not clear in the text so far whether the rules applicable to civil servants or officials apply, we here specify that they are as if they were for civil servants, which is more favourable. And here, these are actually the two most important changes. There are other nomotechnical, I don't know, when the law was amended a few years ago, there is the Administrative Court and the High Administrative Court, and in fact there is a High Administrative Court, the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia doesn't exist, so now we're erasing it and so on. These are the important changes. This is one substance that requires and will require long-term certain changes and considerations, but let's leave it to time after we've spent these organizational things, etc., then we can talk here. What burdens us on what's important may be that I'm wrong about what percentage I think we're now in the budget at almost 80% for wages if we're talking about judicial bodies, meaning courts and state attorneys. When you spend 80% on pay, then you know what the situation is, it's a long-term problem. We also have a problem with large numbers, of course we have a constitutional category there we will not touch anything, but it also affects wages because we have simply solved all problems for some time so that we have hired new people, especially officials who work under the Constitution until 70 years, it now affects because of all these parameters that very few people enter the system, unfortunately less and less and that is the trend that will continue until we change that. But the constitutional provision is what it is. I must admit that I do not understand why, at that moment, it was going to be an extension of the internship at the moment when we are at the same time a country that is second in Europe after Slovenia, so we are the most numerous. And then instead of maybe even shortening it or leaving it the way it was, we've extended the Constitution by working time and now we're actually having a little difficulty because it's very hard to get new people into the system. So just the new people who are different are experiencing a European right that should change that from the inside. But simple numbers are like that. We, wherever we count, have surpluses except in administrative courts almost everywhere we are on surpluses, infringing, municipalally there is simply no space. We'll miss new people, but I say with these restrictions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94288	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. We have one replica. Dear Representative Josip Salapic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94289	Thank you, President of the Parliament. The Honorable Ministers. We've got extra judges in the courts, and we've got a surplus of back-up cases that have been in some courts for years, so it's not exactly in line with what we want it to be. But why did I answer, since this is about the Constitutional Court's reaction, I personally advocate that all judges have adequate salaries which will reduce the corruption that is in the judiciary which I "can't say 100%" but is present everywhere, so I believe there are also those judges, and there have been cases that we have seen that there have been impolite judges in doing their job. But something else concerns me, since the Constitutional Court reacted here, I don't know what time he reacted, but the Constitutional Court annulled these articles of the law and today we'll discuss it. the slow work of the courts, and in particular the Constitutional Court. And now I have the need here once again for the public to know is about the pay of judges and the work of judges, it is not normal for the Constitutional Court to enter one case in the fifth year, and this is the subject of Branimir Glavas who has received eight years in prison and for the fifth year the Constitutional Court should decide on his appeal in a drawer for five years. So I am against the fact that, in such a way, any right is threatened if we want better salaries and equal rights to all high-level court officials and judges of the Constitutional Court, then the Constitutional Court must not embarrass the Republic of Croatia before the European Court of Human Rights where this case is also and no judge with the number of pages of cases can be sold, but when it comes to human rights, the fair work of judges should be rewarded with a large salary, and political arrests should be thrown out of the courts, whether this was the Constitutional Court or any court of the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94290	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the respected Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94291	Thank you very much. These provisions, which are assessed here, are unconstitutional from 2010, but only one note here is not regulated by the judges of the Constitutional Court, these are regular courts. So that's where I'm building up and it's not the subject of a debate here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94292	Thank you, too. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament want to present their reports? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. In the debate, we are going through the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, the Club of Representatives Linić, Vuksic, Hodzic is next. On behalf of the club, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94293	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable ministers with the co-worker. So I can say that I was surprised that the Constitutional Court, when I made remarks to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, responded within 7 days. I hope that I will need some additions within 7 days and address the problem of our Rules of Procedure's unconstitution. So something started to change, or it was just a case. What we're saying today doesn't really need to talk much about, the Constitutional Court is doing its job, so this is an old problem this isn't the problem of the new government but the problem is old. And this is one problem of the state, the establishment of the parliamentary system. Here in the Parliament we have repeatedly debated that the Croatian government is either the previous or this one, especially now in Milanovic's time, wants to transfer all the powers of the Croatian Parliament to its back, I would say the weak back. So we can only discuss more in the Assembly and this Croatian Parliament president unfortunately interrupts the sessions most, let's say about the property of the Republic of Croatia. The government can with her we gave her permission, not the opposition, to do with the property they want. This interruption may not have anything to do with what I'm about to say, but it is about the government's inaction, and on the other hand, it is about the government wanting to decide everything, so it is so voted that the government decides on the salaries of judges. Now there is actually one toothpick, if the Constitutional Court thinks that it has changed very much by, meaning the possibility of determining or changing salaries will return to the Croatian Assembly, it will not change much. Who's going to decide that? Mr. Milanovic, Government? And what will be told to the Kukurik coalition what should be voted on. So the only thing that's good at it? That here in the Croatian Parliament can be debated. There's no discussion at the government. Yes, there is a debate and here in the House there is, the opposition is arguing, the opposition is arguing about the only thing the opposition can't stop is that it's saying, there's no, there's no, there's no, no, there's no power but it's got some influence. And you can tell by the government's ratings and opposition parties. In connection with this law, when the Constitutional Court abolished a legal provision that prescribed that the Government lays down by a special decision the basis for the consideration of judges' salaries that day still returned to the correctional four more laws and said they were unconstitutional. The government said it was a war against the government of the Constitutional Court. I believe the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court are doing their job. And if we lose confidence in all the institutions of the system, then we're a state that's totally decapitated. At this point, what the Government is doing, the way the Government is doing, the way the Prime Minister treats other institutions and the Constitutional Court and judges, is absolutely certain that I am on the side of the Constitutional Court and the judges and that this intervention of the Constitutional Court is good intervention and that it is a lesson to the Government. However, I don't think that any teaching to come, on either side of the opposition Constitutional Court, can affect the Prime Minister because the Prime Minister has closed his ears, shut himself up and doesn't hear what the citizens or the Constitutional Court are telling him. It is said here that this change will ensure the stability of the judicial function and that the Constitutional Court itself will say so when the Parliament decides on the salaries of judges and officials the guarantee of professional and impartial implementation of justice. I hope it will be so, that it will be impartial and that there will be justice. So far, there is little justice and few such examples in Croatian courts. What he said earlier in the replica, I don't think there's too much politics, the influence of the politicians is powerful, but I think that the judicial organisation itself should think hard about cleaning up those who didn't deserve to be in their ranks. We will give this change to the Constitutional Court which is welcome and God forbid that we have given an assessment of the constitutionality of some other laws that the Constitutional Court would certainly give back to the Croatian Parliament, which is the will of the majority, and that most of them will be ashamed tomorrow of raising their hands for some things that they should not have raised, which is primarily property management.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94294	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, we have two replicas. Honorable representative Davorin Mlakar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94295	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues Vuksic encouraged me in this chamber atmosphere on Friday to correct you, and we do not have those elements that the Parliament once had to correct the incorrect allegations. In your discussion, you were talking about how the debate is open and how it can be spoken in Parliament, and that this is the achievement of democracy that you stand for, and I have to correct you because you are wrong. Here's to remembering the day before yesterday, it's only been two days since we debated in the Parliament for an hour, not to say we've fought arguments or less arguments to prove whether we can speak in the Parliament or not. And after all this debate, just to remind those who may have forgotten about the proposal not to discuss it anymore, but to read to us from the President's desk the documents and then to vote on them immediately. After a persistent struggle, we came to the point where we fought to at least speak for the clubs. It is a victory of beer because all the others over 140 MPs in the Assembly have lost the right to talk about a particular topic. So, speaking of which, freedom of speech is very limited by our new Rules of Procedure, which gives the Presidency of the Parliament to determine how much will be spoken and who will speak to the fact that and nevertheless and having that provision in mind you still have to fight each time and talk about a point where the rulings do not respond we will again lead... Dispute. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94296	Thank you very much. Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94297	Dear colleague Mlakar, I agree with you in part, that the Prime Minister is always acting in the Parliament as if he were the boss, although once the President of the Parliament taught him who should be the boss when he yelled, give me the Rules of Procedure. And yesterday, either yesterday or yesterday, yesterday morning the same Prime Minister said I'm the same parliamentary representative, he forgot he's not a parliamentary representative because he's no longer a mandate and he's not, he's a parliamentary representative, now he's the Prime Minister and he's a guest in this house and he should act as a guest in this house. And the fact that you can't speak in Parliament, we fought to speak. I think he was, and we can't be unfair, that it was a club deal to only speak for club representatives. That's what we agreed on the day before we agreed to only speak to the club representatives and I don't think we've been playing around because we've been stretching around all day, I think it was a good decision on the subject. That's my opinion, of course. I was talking about how much better it is for the Parliament to decide that it can still be debated in Parliament, while parliamentary deputies have no influence on the government, so neither the parliamentary representatives of the government or the Kukuriku coalition have any influence on the government's decisions, unfortunately. The fact that they're trying to stop us and that the Rules of Procedure in my opinion is undemocratic, that's what I was saying in the debates, and besides, I also spoke to the Constitutional Court. But we'll know how to fight, and I think that I'm speaking now on my own personal behalf, that I can hardly be stopped.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94298	Since the replica of my colleague Davorin Mlakara was, in principle, "daughter of diamonds, sister-in-law complains" would be fair... You'll read it in a transcript. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So it was unprincipled because exactly what he claimed in his conduct was denied by his colleague, the Mlakar. So you yourself stated that there was an agreement by the club representatives that would only speak to representatives of clubs, without replicas and other participants in the debate. And for the sake of the public, the representatives of the HDZ Club have asked for a debate to be opened in the Rules of Procedure, and this stands in the debate of your colleague, Mlakar, and I do not know what was the dispute, because the Parliament, both in the Rules of Procedure and in the practice of the Croatian Parliament, only the Parliament, not the Presidency, will be held a debate if negotiated outside the usual standards set out in the Rules of Procedure. So now I have to say that I had to take this out to the public. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94299	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Because of the public, you have injured the Rules of Procedure in its Article 238, you have used your position as chairman in order to actually replicate or debate with me in a replica directed by my colleague Vuksic. And since you like to send messages to the Croatian public, I would say because of the same public, unlike you, I participated in negotiations with clubs...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94300	You've finished your colleague, Mlakar. As far as the breach of the Rules of Procedure is concerned, you're done.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94301	And the kind of deal you're talking about wasn't there, and the HDZ club didn't agree, nor did he agree to speak on behalf of the clubs alone. So much for the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94302	As for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you're done. I estimate that there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, and if you are dissatisfied with that assessment as a colleague, you know that you can address the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and get it over with. ... Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm glad your heart is filled with joy. New replica, respected representative Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94303	I agree mainly with Mr Vuksic's presentation, but I would like to mention what he said, that the tendency of the Croatian government, particularly Prime Minister Milanovic, is to transfer and take all the powers of the Parliament under his control, and I can somewhat agree with his presentation because I am convinced that the Croatian Parliament has often been converted into a voting machine of political parties, and that he has lost his independence and leading role in Croatian society. I think that, in the spirit of more equal management of Croatian politics, we should depolitise the Government of the Republic of Croatia in a way that the President of the Party should not be either Prime Minister or may not play two roles because then ministers do not have the possibility of acting independently because there is always the sword of the party's president who can react according to his opinion as he wishes. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94304	Thank you too, dear colleague Grubisic. Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94305	Dear counterpart Grubisic, we agree that every government wants as much power as possible to make decisions, including at the heart of democracy, at the heart of parliamentaryism. It is up to us parliamentary deputies not to allow it, and it is primarily on the conscience of the parliamentary majority. Most allow and give in to party powers because they are also party powers and government presidents. I have repeatedly said in Parliament that in fact the Croatian Parliament and parliamentary majority of the fig leaves and that decisions are made on the other side of Mark's square, but all decisions. However, I do not agree with you that the government should be depolitized. The government is political and what kind of government it would be if there were no ideology in the government, so there are social democratic governments. There are ideologies in every government, including that U.S. government. There are ideologies and politics in all governments, and politics is nothing dishonest, politics is a very honorable function. What we're pretending to be, individuals turning politics into dishonest activity, that's another thing. But I think the government would think that it's another duck of neoliberal capitalism that those who aren't politicized, those who aren't ideologically committed are ideologically committed to the smell of money. If they were ruling, I think it would be death for democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94306	Thank you very much. We will continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the Social Democratic Party of Croatia's turn in the Croatian Parliament and respected colleague Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here are my fellow MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94307	My colleagues and colleagues, dear Mr. Minister, with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. I would ask my colleagues not to abuse the right and kindness of President-in-Office himself. Because if we hadn't, and we didn't abuse our Rules of Procedure, we would have started with this topic that was on the agenda exactly an hour ago. Our colleague who requested, who hasn't been here for seven days, we haven't seen him, comes in on Friday morning. He's talking about some subject I've imposed, I'm not saying it doesn't matter, but it's not in the agenda and it's gone. And that's why I'm going back to why I brought this up in the first place. Because it's important for the protection of rights and all those branches of government, both executive, legislative and judicial matters that we met here this morning, which is on the agenda to discuss, is not only the right, but the ban on any abuse of rights. And that's something that all branches of government need to take care of. It's been here, it's already been used by some replicas, some statements of attack on power. What government attack? To the authority that tries, so as soon as she received the Constitutional Court's decision, she's turned into a bill change. And what is and who has made a mistake? The former power by amending the law, this law where it was done, as the Constitutional Court said, struck by the judicial authority, because these amendments in 2009 set the basis for the account of salaries and judges and other judicial officials to be determined by the Government, then the Government, and now we are correcting it by this law. And we apply, so immediately the Constitutional Court's decision, the Constitutional Court's decision of this year, since 2014. And that's why they're suddenly instead of reading it, that's why we're discussing it unargumentally. There are also reasons for the attacks and for the defense, but I ask that we stick to the argument, because in the end everything is good that is well argued and that there is evidence. Namely, as the minister introduced us and told us what we are doing with this bill. Therefore, we are implementing the Constitutional Court's decision, which stated in its argument that this regulation, the 2009 government's decision, had severely violated the government's trode to legislative, executive and judicial matters. Therefore, because the independence of the judicial authority, therefore by all international conventions, is not only the statutes, so that constitutional provision regarding the affairs carried out by all three branches of government. We are now focusing on the judicial authority, but just as the executive and legislative authorities are responsible for ensuring uninterrupted, especially in the material, normative, but also in the material sense, the independence of the judicial debtors as well as the judiciary as a whole. This refers to the UN Universal Declaration on the independence of the judiciary and states that an adequate salary and therefore not only an adequate salary for judges and other judicial officials, but also the conditions of the service of judges must be ensured by law and must not be changed to their damages. What does that mean, in fact, adequate pay? This means that they have the right to pay in accordance with the dignity of the judicial function and their liability. But it should also be noted here that the Montreal Convention, which says that the judges are paid, can, of course, only be reduced by law only when the country is in a difficult economic situation. That's why, especially now, why am I listing this Montreal Declaration here? So they'd just point out if it wasn't too persistent how long the country's been in a difficult economic situation for years, but this government hasn't been able to cut judges' wages. While there is also some better times when it was said here in this Croatian Parliament that there is no crisis, then it seemed not by law, but by regulation. However, the opportunity is here, so I think we'll all agree on how we're all responsible for giving judges adequate conditions and wages. However, it also does not exist for the sake of a judicial authority in itself, but just so that it can, in such a way, carry out its own security of wages with adequate pay by means of the Constitution and the law assigned to the task. And it is in any case a guarantee of the independence of the judicial authority. The development of, of course, judicial authorities should certainly be included in the development of judicial authorities, i.e. to take into account not only these European standards, but also to take into account the development of our society in particular social and economic change. However, what I particularly wanted to point out by saying on behalf of the SDP club, so that all this independence, all this effort of ours not to cut wages but to correct what was once illegal, against the constitution, exists not only for their own sake but to be able to carry out their mission to protect fundamental human rights. However, we have had different attempts to ensure that, with all this reform, we are trying to do so. I will point out that it was once known in our criminal law and the criminal act of breaking the law by judicial officials. It then disappeared, so that in 2003 the novel would be reintroduced. However, the power of judgment is that, but also others, and especially the judicial authority, welcomed at least some representatives, or representatives of the judicial authority at the time. However, what does independence of the judicial authority mean? She means first of all responsibility. The application of the law on the basis of evidence and it is a free judicial belief or conviction of other state officials. So no one is free of the law and of the evidence that has been obtained in a legitimate way. However, and the Latin people, therefore under existing legislation, if judicial officials do not behave in this way, there is a responsibility which is both material nature and criminal responsibility through abuse of positions and powers as I believe and as we consider it not entirely adequate. In fact, we often refer to the provision of Article 122. The Constitution and paragraph 2. But there's often someone who doesn't know why they're putting an end to it. So I'll read: "Judges and judges of the jury participating in the trial cannot be called to account for their opinion or vote in judgment." And someone puts an end to it even though there's a decimal point in our constitution to that provision. The text continues: "unless it is a violation of the law by a judge who is a crime." So here's what we need to end up saying on behalf of the SDP club. We support the safe adoption of this bill. We support the government, especially the restoring ministry, to continue this way in strengthening the judicial authority, which means also strengthening their powers, independence, but especially because of one single objective of responsibility for the protection of the rule of law and the protection of our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94308	Thank you, too, dear colleague. We've got a couple of replicas, so let's get in line. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94309	Dear colleagues Antičević-Marinović, I will respond to one thing first, I think it is not a good way to call parliamentary representatives like you called a colleague of Baranovic, who is one of the more active parliamentary representatives, came and imposed the topic and disappeared. He's been gone seven days. I think you should take a look around and look around, and the SDPs, and even when the Prime Minister here in the Assembly the benches are not half empty but even less than that is you. Therefore, do not give lessons to others until you have cleaned up in your backyard. Second, that it's abuse of law. It's not abuse of rights, we're just fighting for the word, the opposition is the only thing that can do. You've never asked for a single break with your initiative, maybe one was around the Gorski kotar and the CNS as I recall, you don't even defend the laws. That's your problem. And that's why we don't call you. It's your right. You say as soon as it got a decision, I said in my first sentence it was an old thing. It means it's a sin of the former government. You could teach lessons if as soon as you came to power you changed that. You have been warned by the Constitutional Court or the Association of Judges has given the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court has made such a decision and you are changing after intervention of the Constitutional Court. So it's not that you did something yourself, but the Constitutional Court told you to do it. And it's a good thing you did. And you didn't react, like I did because of that example that the Constitutional Court reacted within seven days, you could react immediately. So the first session in the fall could have been this item of the agenda because it's not something big of a law. So we have noted that it is a sin if it is a sin of the former government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94310	Replicate response, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94311	I appeal to responsibility because responsibility has not only power but has responsibility and opposition. In this way, it is presented to citizens as some alternative. Therefore, whoever is not responsible in the opposition is neither responsible nor in power we have seen it with the former authorities. You're respecting me here now, or you're replicating that we never asked for a break to talk about anything. So please, what would you say to us? This can happen because some of the extraordinary circumstances have been chosen by the Government and the Parliament on the same programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94312	Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare-Ozbolt, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94313	Dear colleagues, Anticevic-Marinovic, said the government did not cut the salaries of judges. Yeah, she was cutting the judges' salaries, and that last cut was March 5th this year by the government's decision. Therefore, it is not true that the material position of the judges is such that there has been no change in your government. In the last five years, three times the judges' salaries have been reduced. So, you really need to monitor the state of affairs when it comes to this subject, and I also think you need to better monitor the presence of MPs, I don't think it's right that this is how you attack a representative from my club. You should have practically gotten a breach of the Rules of Procedure because you hurt the Rules of Procedure this way. He doesn't have colleagues now, but not because he's not in the Parliament, but because he's on the Committee on Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94314	Replicate-respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94315	I'll answer you first about this. I'm here all the time and I've never called anyone else who doesn't have one, but if someone comes and stops me in my regular work, and constantly, then I have the right to react to it. Because I know what the agenda is, and this morning I came here early, I'm getting ready for this, and I'm waiting for someone who hasn't been to Parliament for a long time to show up. And let's not call each other names at all, who isn't, who is, well we know who's in the morning, who's missing the camera lights this afternoon. Let's not talk about it anymore. So I answer only to those who come and stop us from working. [[- Who's talking?]] And as for what you're saying that we've all been cutting wages, I'm once again referring you to this Montreal Convention, and you'd see what opportunities it gives to cut wages given the difficult situation. These wages are adequate, we can also say that they are small but they are also high in view of the times and the problems in the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94316	Dear Representative Josip Salapic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94317	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Representative Antičević, I would not talk about MPs, colleagues but would return to what was the topic, the main topic of your debate, and these are the salaries of the judges and also the one mentioned that we should actually give the judges a lot more than they have today to solve the burning problem of our judiciary. And you were the Minister of Justice in one term, and that's the lagging number of cases not only because the judges are unsupervised but that's why we were doing the reform and the organisation of the network of courts to solve this burning problem. I would personally advocate that judges and afternoons and debates are conducted in the afternoon and their wages are double that citizens are satisfied with those who seek their right in court. Is that possible or not, I don't know, but I do know that some do less than they should do. That's also true, they go home at noon or lunch. And what would be particularly pawned is that this courtroom, is a courtroom and courts are actually a representative of the state, it is the Republic of Croatia. And when citizens of the party enter the courtroom in the proceedings there is the Republic of Croatia. Some courts are truly in a catastrophic state, and they're all just not courtrooms. And here I know that the money for the Osijek Municipal and County Court will be paid in 2015 as the minister promised. I think it is the same mirror of the Croatian judiciary and where these discussions are being held. Well, let's work together to ensure that, in future rebalancing, the money from the justice portfolio is not taken because we can't expect a successful judiciary without enough financial resources for both judges and courts, for warlocks, for warlocks and for all those who need to work for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So any salary that will be fairly earned is supported and supported by the HDSSB.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94318	The reply to the replica of respected MP Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94319	Well, since you remind me of this ministerial period that lasted only two years, I can tell you that it was missing in the judiciary at the time, because I found a judiciary where 50% of the people were missing. That we've almost filled it all out with this lower counseling staff. The car wasn't 88 cars, not for the Department of Justice, but only for our users, we happened in our own space, and we gave it up, we didn't move anywhere in Dezhmanov or anywhere else, but we gave it to the U.S.K.A. State's Attorney's office, which was then to be formed. And all the fundamental laws that are still being worked out today, and all the governments that have been developing, were passed right then. And I agree with you, right here on matters of responsibility. And that's something, it seems to me that it's a desire for all of us to give the judiciary that there are really still inadequate spaces, a lot of it on that plan, but there's still inadequate space, inadequate conditions for judges who have to wait and other judges to be able to hold a hearing, but also all of this, and these modest still material conditions are no excuse for inadequate behaviour of high standards as required by the judicial function. Judges simply must be priests of justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94320	Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94321	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues Antičević-Marinović, first of all about this prevention in work. If any representative prevented the parliament and other representatives from doing so, surely so that the president of the Croatian Parliament would not allow it. So what happened today and what happens often is also the work of representatives and representatives and the work of the Croatian Parliament. If we feel that something needs to be changed here, we can propose amendments to the Rules of Procedure and install it. And I have an observation about endless replicas, but it's all work, it's all the work of MPs and advocates. But let's get back to the subject. I agree with you that the judge pays, or better said, that judges should also be provided with adequate salaries and status. However, I also believe that you will agree that judges, as well as representatives, and members of the government all officials must share the fate of Croatia, that is, the fact. But I also think it is necessary to mention once again what is one of the values of the Constitution, and that is the government's trinity on legislative, executive and judicial authority and that the obligation of all officials in all three pillars of government is not to affect other pillars of government. It's just as much a commitment as we rarely talk about. Therefore, if an executive is not to have any effect in any way in a legislative or judicial way, the legislative authority may also not and must not influence other than the adoption of the laws in the case of a judgment, neither in any segment shall it influence or take better account of the constitutional provision of the tridivision of the authorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94322	Replicate-respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94323	Very briefly, this introductory thing that you said about this dispute that has arisen over some interventions, whether it is abuse of the Rules of Procedure or not, but in any case I would agree with you that we should, and it exists in another, it exists in the European Parliament, it exists in other national parliaments, the need for a representative to talk about something that does not even go into the agenda, there is one free debate that is determined weekly, and so it takes 2, 3 minutes for everyone to say what they consider to be current and how he sees it. I think that, in that sense, our Rules of Procedure could modernise it a little bit, so we can get out of these situations. Also, I have no other but to agree with you precisely on the division of power, inability, that is to say, the removal of any opposition of one authority to another, but our Constitution speaks of some kind of cooperation which is also necessary, but when these issues are on the agenda, especially when it comes to the trial itself, then there is nothing to intervene the other two authorities. Which, I think, is just as destructive as it is destructive, I think, but equally, it's not destructive, but it's destructive when a judge wants to deal with politics and judges. So it's not just destructive, it's destructive because the judicial function is unlike these two branches of government specific. In particular, every judge in a particular case decides on human destiny, the right of that man to freedom, his property and other most important rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94324	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. The Club of Croatian Labourists and Honored Representative Mladen Novak is next. Here you go, colleague Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94325	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. The Honorable Ministers with the Deputy. Well, I have to admit, you were a little contradictory at first. You said it was about two almost irrelevant changes, but they're going according to emergency procedure. If they are irrelevant, which is why they are going through an emergency procedure, because the Constitutional Court has practically ordered some kind of amendment by its decision. So as soon as intervention is in some law based on the Constitutional Court's decision, she no longer, I don't believe anyone can treat her as irrelevant. Excuse me. On the other hand, your opening statement was extremely brief, which is understandable because the law itself is quite summed up, short, but if I am well informed, or well prepared, the basic law was passed in 1999, so 15 years ago if I counted these amendments correctly, this is even the 25th amendment. And the fifth change since this power. So that's already, let's just say, I'm data to myself. The Constitutional Court here has ordered a certain amendment and in an explanation that it also ensures the stability of the judicial function, i.e. ... professional and impartial... justice in which all elements of the judicial salary must be appropriated to the dignity of the judicial profession and the burden of responsibility of judges. I absolutely agree with that, but I also agree with one of the predecessors who said that, by any chance, we made more decisions here at the Constitutional Court, I suppose there would be a lot of them that would exactly be in line with this decision. Practically, we heard this yesterday and the day before in the debates, the Croatian Government is probably the largest authority in Europe of all governments, in terms of state property management. It's not just the management, it's the availability, the sale and the sale. But to get back to this part right here. We have here a provision that says, once again, I don't know which times, now it applies to 2015 and '16, before that was '13, '14, before that to '11. and '12, so isn't that in your head, I'm not going to say crazy, but pointless? You have a provision in the law that every year, with some amendments to the law, you declare invalid for this and that period because of this and that situation, that is, the situation in which the state is. Isn't it really a little paradox that every year we say the same provision in the law, and it's not worth it. You're right, but... it's not worth it. It's a little bit in my head, and it's happening right now, it's not that now, we're in a crisis, and now it's not just gonna be worth an extraordinary year. Well, that's been going on for six years. Six years of crisis, but six years, well, we're aware that we won't even get out of the crisis next year, so let's change something. Something to change, but to change, in a way that it doesn't happen in this way, I don't know in my opinion, a little bit and a little bit of an unserious way. In this decision, the Constitutional Court also speaks of the dignity of the judicial profession. Now the dignity of the judicial profession, so I tried a little bit on the Internet, corruption in the Croatian judiciary is gone or almost gone, i.e. it is very rare. At least according to the judges. And what is the public perception of the state of justice? Well, it's just a public perception that our judiciary is in a catastrophic state to remember these some court cases that have baffled the public, that it's someone from a good family, that it's a good government, that there's a perspective, that I don't know the flowers of the Croatian people of Malta, all in some superlatives, and that's why he's looking through his fingers for some crimes, for some acts that an ordinary mortal would probably get a multi-year sentence and who knows what's not yet. Also, the perception of the Croatian public about justice creates, at least it's my impression, and I don't think I'm the only one in it, creating a certain announcement that has appeared in the media these days, which is that the chickens in the hen will be corned for a singer who didn't end up in a pot. Jesus Christ says to the lady, and I'm telling you that even after the Constitutional Court's decision and, in general, the judges of the Constitutional Court should be some moral verticals. And in all those discussions that we had, and I can even quote to you, today's Prime Minister, your party president while he was in opposition for talking about that same man, and now he's pushing for it to be the judge of the Constitutional Court. So I think sometimes this very profession, not only that but everyone else, can do a lot of damage to themselves. On the other hand, in this case it is policy-making if it will agree to be the final version. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94326	Thank you too, dear colleague. We have one replica of the respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here's my colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94327	A colleague, Novak, only one explanation, to the young person whom the judges had seen through his fingers because he had killed a young person or a person by car because he was from a good family, his father gave the president of the HDZ BMW. So this is proved to be very large between politics and courts and to the shame of courts, judges, judicial authorities, the whole of the judiciary. And when it comes to Mr. Vajic and his alleged candidate for member of the Constitutional Court, I hope there will be enough intelligence, enough courage to say no to a man who didn't have the courage to start an anti-corruption fight and waited for a moment of politics, so he will wait for a moment of politics as a constitutional judge. I hope that's not going to happen because if that happens then it means knowingly destroying the foundations of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94328	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94329	Thank you very much. A colleague of yours pulled out of my debate the one example that perhaps the Croatian public may have threatened the most. It's about what happened. I think it's kind of shaped like that, I think, from a respectable family. Unfortunately, however, such cases have been wherever and where more, but we have cases where, let's say, one judge judges another judge and finds that he doesn't see any irregularities, any illogicalness, that, say, travel expenses and the use of the official apartment are not at odds, which may be a little immoral but not against the law. And it doesn't even appear anywhere that this apartment may have been rented in the meantime, so profit may have been achieved on that basis, but these are all cases that burden our judiciary and then we find that corruption in the Croatian judiciary does not exist or is hardly there, or very rare. And public perception of the Croatian judiciary is quite the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94330	Thank you, too. There are needs and reasons on behalf of the promoter, respected Justice Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94331	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So first, I would refer to what you have pointed out to the delay in the application of these legal provisions. Exactly, after 15 years, it has been delayed, so it hasn't been 5 or 6 since the beginning. And that's why I said in the introduction that we were going on an emergency shift with these provisions that we need to comply with the Constitutional Court. However, because of a good legislative practice that we need to implement, and I really agree that there is no point in delaying something for 15 years and that it has never been effective, I announced when I said that we would open the whole law right away from the beginning of next year, consider this and all the other provisions and simply define which rights are, which are not and what can really be, rather than being delayed indefinitely. That's exactly what I agree with, and that's something that I already said in the introduction that we should do. Of course, we will all be exposed then, and the criticism is clear to you, because one legal which is actually imaginary has never been established, then eventually, if such a decision is removed by law. And probably that's why 15 years was just a delay, not definitely a decision in one direction or another. So we intend to open a debate about it, talk about whether or not we need it, what are the possibilities, which are not, and we will do it within the legal text. As to why I said nothing important changes, I meant status, because wages will remain what they are. And that's why I don't think there's anything important about that. And really whether in the future the government will change them as it has been so far, obviously it won't anymore, but it will change you and me because it's regulated by a regulation, so the basics. It won't be here. It'll be decided by the Parliament again on a proposal from a government. And that's why I think we came back more or less to the same thing. But given the position of the Constitutional Court, we respect it, we put it there. But I'm saying there won't really be any big difference. Once again there will be a government proposal whichever one way or another, the Parliament will vote it or not. I think so, that's why I said it. And thirdly, you know, I think we need to be careful when we talk and when we use words and mark the judiciary as corrupt, as a source of corruption, etc., you didn't say that, I agree, harshly. It's certain that there is one because there is another in society there. But what I've pointed out many times is I'm sure and according to what's really being realized, which you can see is less in the judiciary somewhere else. But the judiciary, you've had a problem the length of the proceedings since the beginning, then normally that party will wonder why I'm taking so long. Well, then they're not going to find any other reason than to say that someone might have taken money for it somewhere or that, and in reality, it probably didn't happen. Secondly, you always have or usually you have 50% dissatisfied parties. Well, you know when you've been pushing something for 10 years, you're convinced you're right, so you lose again, you're looking for reasons where, in some kind of corruption where they're really not. So when we look at segments then I often say that I can be a critic inside because I also see some things but it's certain that the judiciary should be better, absolutely better than it is, but when we look at other social segments I'm convinced that he's better than them, that it's better than them. But if it were to be even better because it ultimately decides on all our rights and obligations, it would also be that we should work on it. But I can't accept the thesis that it's more corrupt than any other segment. I claim there is less than there is elsewhere but the simple nature of the job is that people are looking for an answer but they're looking for a reasonable answer. You know if you and I are in a lawsuit someone's gonna lose. After 10, and the problem is that it lasts 10 years. If she was done for a year, we wouldn't be thinking about it, when it's been 10 years, then we'll say, "Yeah, somebody paid somebody off." What really didn't happen but that's how people rationalize and then talk about such perceptions, etc. There is no extent to which it is spoken, the problem is the length of the proceedings, and that is what we are all working on together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94332	Thank you, Minister. We have two replicas, a respected representative of Mladen Novak's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94333	Thank you very much. I'll start from the beginning of your debate. For 15 years, something has not come into effect, or it is some imaginary right but the authorities have come to power with the goal of making difficult decisions. And those heavy ones, you can't get away from it, if you're running away from what you've come to be in power at all, what are you running for? That's number one. Under number two, you said that, but you can't hear me, it doesn't matter, I guess your deputy is going to hear, they're going to discuss it, they're going to make a decision by the Parliament, not by the government, and nothing's going to change. Unfortunately, that's the reality because we have an example in a 100% amount of everything that came from the other side of Mark's square everything here is confirmed. I don't know about any of the cases, if I'm wrong, I'd like someone to correct me, but nothing's really going to change in that sense, but it's going to change in a sense of being heard. These debates here still people hear. And he'll know, he'll know what he stood for. What's on the government's side of the road is whether or not someone can transmit it afterwards. You mentioned the perception of corruption. I didn't say that the judiciary is the most corrupt or corrupt source of corruption, but the fact is that I think it dramatically bounces away from what it shows, is the real state of it as it shows itself. And the problem with the judiciary, you've apostrophe of, say, long-term litigation. The consequences of these long-term litigations are, among other things, the loss of many jobs, and that's not exactly harmless, that's not what between the two of us, the two of us have to lose. There are a lot of jobs being lost here. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94334	The reply to the replica, the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94335	Thank you very much. So, I agree with that here will be discussed in the future and there will be an opportunity then to open the topic and wider and that is good, always to speak. And I'm also glad that we explained this, and maybe I misunderstood you, so absolutely, but I'm convinced as a minister who has insight inside, perception is sometimes incomparably worse than the real state, in real terms there's no rule. And people are sometimes unhappy about the length, because of this, they call for another, but I'm really convinced and I stand behind talking about corruption in the judiciary that there's no room for that. Because it really isn't there, there are incidents maybe as elsewhere, but there's no such thing as phenomena. The judiciary is clean here, what happens as clearly as possible, people tend to work here and here we talked about. The problem is, these are our organisational systemic problems that you said and, of course, if something lasts long and jobs are lost, etc., then you're looking for a reason. And it's natural for people to focus on something and say someone took something. But really here's to everything I see, if there are incidents. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94336	Thank you, Minister. New Replicated Representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94337	Dear Ministers, you mentioned one Croatian judiciary cancer earlier, and these are long-term processes. A sign of equality should be placed between long-term processes and corruption. So long as there is no sign of equality between corruption and long-term processes, the processes will last for 10 years, 15 years. You're running some business dispute that lasts 10 years, and 10 companies are going down by that time. The thing is, it's in the drawer. No one's given money to anyone, but there's some interest in it. If there's no interest, then it means that it's an uninterested authority to take care of that judiciary so that these processes don't last for 10 years or more. I fully agree with you that nothing will change almost and thus work, and other parliaments act similarly, governments make decisions. However, I would be much happier, now I also get into some party relations, to fight for the laws and what is said here in the Croatian Parliament, to fight at party clubs. And now that I am going to abuse a little bit... in the assembly of the two most competent persons, and that is the President of the Croatian Parliament and you, I do not understand why until today there is no report by the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia on the state of the court in 2013. Is the exact information that the President of the Supreme Court is resisting, that he does not wish to give. This is because of the Croatian public explain because the end of the year is the 15th constitutional break and I ask you this is very important because people have started to ask why there are no reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94338	The reply to the replica, the respected Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94339	Actually, it's not a reply to the replica, it's an inquiry. So the report went through all the procedures, the report is in the Croatian Parliament, I saw it that it is among the points, it will be discussed. Absolutely, absolutely, not that there is no resistance and can't be talked about, but there is one very good cooperation. You'll see, the report is very correct, it contains all the data, and now I've seen it on the agenda, so it's only up to the Parliament when it's going to be. By no means the President of the Supreme Court, he did everything he could when and what was and how he should have done it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94340	Thank you, too. I'm looking for a point in the agenda. ... 37 item on the agenda, that means that if the government doesn't ask us to solve the priorities within this session, we can do it now, but certainly the first session next year is all the reports, so we agreed. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No more replicas. We're going to a club debate. HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Davor Milicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94341	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Today, we have before us the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Payments of Judges and Other Judicial Officers. The adoption of this law is an obligation of this Parliament until 15 December 2014, given that the decision and decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia established an infringement of the Constitution and the provisions of Article 4(2) and Article 8(2) of the current Law on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials have been repealed in that part which provides that the basis for the payment of judges and other judicial officials determines the Government of the Republic of Croatia by special decision. It follows from that decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia that all elements of the salary of judges must be laid down by law adopted in a democratic parliamentary procedure and in a way that respects the importance of guaranteeing the stability of the judicial function, i.e. the correct, professional and impartial exercise of justice, where all elements of the judicial salary must be appropriated to the dignity of the judicial profession and the burden of responsibility of judges. The legislator, by such a proposal for a law to honour the Constitutional Court's decision, proposes to the Parliament the adoption of a law which is, in its essence, identical to the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which lays the basis for the payment of salaries of judges and other judicial officials, as well as the right to compensation for material costs. Subject law implements the Constitutional Court's decision that the salaries of judges cannot be determined by the Government, but the basis of the salary is to be determined by the Assembly by this law and introduced. The HDZ believes that the existing system of salaries in the judiciary does not have mechanisms and does not recognise those who comply with the set standards, who exceed the standards, those who do not have enough objects to meet the norms, those who do not meet the standards, those who do not make good decisions and those who have few broken decisions and those who do not have a lot of broken decisions, and the wages are for all the same. It is necessary to establish a system that will identify all these differences that I have cited and will be encouraged to work well. Also, in the judicial system there are advisers who, according to the latest amendments to the Law on Courts, carry out procedural actions in cases where the value of the dispute is up to 100 000 kuna, which represents a large number of cases. These advisers should also be adequately rewarded because these amendments to the law have increased their size while disbursing judges. In a specific case, the law does not regulate the pay elements of judges to be laid down by law, but only taxively determines in Article 3 of the Law that the basis for the calculation of the remuneration of judges and other judicial officials is determined at an amount of 44443 kuna gross, so there is no element on which the calculation of that particular amount is based, which is contrary to the decision of the Constitutional Court requiring the adoption of a law which would clearly establish the criteria. the elements for determining the level of remuneration of judges, and the same is the situation with the right to compensation for material costs. By passing such a law without specific elements to determine the height of the salary of judges and other judicial officials, as well as the right to compensation for material costs, we will fulfil one of the obligations set before us by the Constitutional Court, which is that by law the offices of the judges and other judicial officials pay, but we will again pass the missing law because we have not regulated the elements for determining the height of the judges and other judicial officials, nor have we set clear criteria for their determination, which is likely to be a reason to request an assessment of the constitutionality of this law. In addition, the law does not lay down any criteria for which legal holders have so many different pay coefficients, so I do not understand the reasons why the first-degree courts of different courts have different coefficients, which is more than the largest number of proceedings and the largest number of cases dealt with in the judiciary are on these first-degree courts. It would therefore be logical to make at least the coefficients for calculating the salaries of judges of the same rank for the same, if not greater job identical. I therefore believe that it is necessary to modify the pay coefficients of municipal state lawyers and judges and county attorneys and judges in order to reduce the pressure of municipal state lawyers and municipal judges at the place of county to keep the lawyers and judges of the County courts, and to cast quality and professional personnel from municipal courts in a way that increases the coefficients of municipal state attorneys and judges. I am referring to this above, bearing in mind the fact that the largest number of procedures are conducted at the level of municipal state attorneys and municipal courts, and most of the problem is on them. And one of the reasons for such a situation is the outflow of professional and quality personnel from municipal to County State's attorneys and courts. By reducing the difference in coefficients between county and municipal judicial officials, the effects I was talking about above have certainly been achieved. The Croatian Democratic Community can support this law because it is in line with the Constitutional Court's decision, but it does not solve the essence of the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94342	Thank you too, dear colleague. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party club in the Croatian Parliament, respected representative Vesna Sabolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94343	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, the respected ministers with a co-worker, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian People's Party MPs' club supports, of course, the Liberal Democrats' proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials with a final draft of the law. We also support the adoption of the Act by emergency procedure for the reason that the Croatian Parliament is obliged to comply with the legal provisions governing this law with the decision and decision of the Constitutional Court of 18 July 2014 at the latest by 15 December of this year. Salaries and other material rights of judicial officials in the Republic of Croatia have been governed by the Law on Judges' Salaries since 1999. To this day, however, it has already been said by a colleague who had discussed the law before me that he had experienced 33 amendments, or additions. As we have heard, the most significant is the one in 2009 which determines the basis for the payment, which is the basis for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and which the Association of Judges, that same year, took as the illegal incursion of the executive in the judicial power, which was finally confirmed by the Constitutional Court, and the disputed provision as we heard and abolished. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party advocates, of course, the consistent implementation of the government's trodiocy, because it is a condition without which a modern democratic state cannot function and therefore we support this bill with one small remark, and I would say and agree with a colleague who had previously discussed it, which is that one important element of lawmaking was not taken into account, and this is an element of the sustainability of the law, that is, the need for each, to avoid the need to adopt amendments and supplement this law every year. For Article 4(2) is changed in a way that determines the basis at the height of 4444 kuna. The basis is in force and now that we have been informed by the minister, there will be no change in wages. I hope he will, given the changes in income tax. But what matters is that this decision puts us in a position that every year or already next year we will have to make changes and additions and establish a new basis. And again on the government's proposal, so we haven't achieved too much. I think the key role will continue to be the executive power, although the budgetary procedure is the theoretical authority of Parliament. A better solution for us would be that the basis is established in a certain percentage compared to the average gross salary paid in the Republic of Croatia in the previous year. Now it's about 56% of the gross salary paid for 2013. When we say that the salaries of judges and judicial officials must be governed by a special law, because, of course, the Constitutional Court also said that it is one of the instruments for preventing the influence of the judicial dependence on the will of the executive authority, but then it should be clearly defined by law. I agree, of course, that we can do so on the first next occasion when, as the minister has already reported, a complete law will be passed with all necessary amendments. Since this is only one step in the reform of the judiciary, which has been defined by the laws already passed, we believe that future harmonisations will also be taken into account in any way, that in no way does pay open a space for breach of the independence of the judiciary. I must remind you that since 2009, when it was determined that the base for the salary account was determined by the government, that basis was three times reduced. The first time in April 2009 was 4874 kuna, and in March 2013, when it was reduced to 4728 kuna. And finally, this year she's reduced to 4444 kuna gross, which is also in the draft of this law. The Association of Croatian Judges expressed its dissatisfaction with the constant reduction of the salaries of judges and other judicial officials and in a debate at the Croatian Judges' Assembly, I quote: "We are aware of the economic situation in the country and the fact that a large number of workers in the country are working for a minimum or very small salary and that Croatia is in a long-standing crisis. We are particularly aware of the great unemployment, the fact that people work and do not receive salaries and are ready to bear the burden of this crisis as is carried by all other citizens in the Republic of Croatia. Respecting all that judges' salaries should no longer be reduced, so respecting the fact that we spoke of difficult material and social situations, the judges still feel that wages should no longer be reduced and that as soon as the economic situation in the country is improved, the same wages should be raised to an appropriate height." Therefore, the Association of Judges also agrees with one model whereby the salaries of judges and other judicial officials would follow the economic situation which would be achieved by accounting in a certain percentage of the average gross salary paid in the Republic of Croatia increased, of course, multiplied by the corresponding coefficient. This would lead to certain security and predictability in the judicial system, so besides a number of other measures that the minister has repeatedly explained for this speaker, it would help us to establish a better quality and efficient judiciary, which is our ultimate goal. We cannot deny the dissatisfaction of the citizens with the Croatian judiciary. But we can also not deny that the salaries of judges and other judicial officials particularly of a lower rank such as those of municipal courts do not follow the complexity and responsibility of judicial and judicial officials. We cannot deny the dissatisfaction of economic operators with the slow work of courts, but we also cannot have had and still have a massive, dysfunctional and underpaid judicial system. Under this underpaid I mean less wages than some other officials or even officials. It is not an offense for our citizens who are following us to remind judges that the same as the MPs is forbidden any other income from work other than the judicial salary and the fees that are related to the judicial system. Judges don't have paid transportation, regress and Christmas tax. For comparison, the municipal court judge as a state official has almost the same gross salary as the head of a department in the county, and I mean in the local self-government unit even higher. Could this bribery be due to the ineffectiveness of the courts? Certainly not. However, the fact is that more than 12,000 human rights violations have been sent from Croatia to Strasbourg, that so far several hundred violations of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms have been made in that court. This will cost the Republic of Croatia far more than it would have cost us if the reforms of the judiciary had taken place much earlier, if we had not waited for the ineffectiveness of the Croatian judicial system to lead to millions of damages. In one year alone, the Ministry of Justice received nearly 5,000 claims for payment of compensation for violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. Because of the disputed justice, 27 million kunas were paid only in last year alone, and that is nothing compared to the damage that has been done to citizens by the litigation of justice that has been pending for years, and rarely for decades. If we were not deaf and blind to mentioning an inefficient investigation of war crimes, investigations that were not independent, violation of the right to a fair trial, and because of the formalistic approach of law, because of the restrictive interpretation of the right to a fair trial, because of the non-compliance of practices and domestic courts with the European Court of Human Rights today would not have called us for the creaminess of the Croatian judiciary. All this applies naturally to the period from the '90s to today and points to the alarming situation in the Croatian judiciary and justifies the need for reform of the justice system that this government has started. The HNS Club believes in the success of the reforms launched, the reorganisation and rationalisation of the network of courts and state lawyers according to the new territorial and organisational structure, and by reorganising the appeal period, we believe that specialisation of judges and better quality trials and the mobility of judicial staff, which is very important. But with all this it is necessary to bring an adequate system of rewarding but also sanctioning those who are unable to monitor the complexity and responsibility of judicial and judicial duties. Once again, there is no price for justice, so a fair trial within a reasonable period is a key issue for the functioning of the country and, indirectly, for the economic recovery, growth and development of our country. Our view is therefore that, with professional ethics, the strongest guarantee of judicial independence is solid judicial pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94344	Thank you, too, dear colleague. Before I give the replica one notice and a deal. We predicted today to work in continuity until 15.00 hours, so without a break and on the agenda in order so far as we get there. All points of the agenda are in the area of justice. Thank you very much. And now the replica of the esteemed representative, Stjepan Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94345	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I see you've expressed a surprise that I'm going to report on this wheel in the legal system. It's true it's not about agriculture, but you encouraged me to do the replica for the reason you mentioned the Convention on Human Rights. You mentioned a court in Strasbourg. And in that sense, I have something to say. It is therefore very important to mention, therefore, the Convention on Human Rights, in particular Article 8, which states about the court's approach, which speaks very clearly about the court's approach. And in that sense, I have to say that this next point on youth courts is very important because it changes the possibility of accessing court. And another convention needs to be mentioned, which is the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The Convention on the Rights of the Child, which says that the fundamental benefit of a child is also one inaccessible, difficult to access, and, of course, increased material costs, too may in some ways be injured. Well, in that sense, I wanted to intervene. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94346	Didn't I hear if my colleague was gonna give it away? Yes, here you go, dear fellow Sabolic, the replica, the reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94347	Dear counterpart Milinkovic, I agree with you in one piece that we really must always take care of the court's approach, but access to the court is not measured in kilometers, the court's approach is actually access to justice. The fair trial and the reforms that we have been talking about will lead us to this fact that we must all have access to justice at the speed of work of judges.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94348	Thank you very much. We heard the answer. And my colleague Milinkovic can only surprise me, or astounding the normal thing, and the abnormal ones don't surprise me, I'm kidding, of course. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the HDSSB representative club and respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here's my colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94349	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister with an associate. I am also like Milinkovic's doctor, but I have been given the role and task of today presenting the HDSSB's position, so on the Law on the Payments of Judges, i.e. amendments to the salaries of judges and other judicial officials with a final draft of the law. And I'm listening to these discussions, and I feel exactly which way the wind blows. So it's been said here in a debate that the judge decides on human destiny. Well, on that basis, I also see the conclusion of the second club that a solid judge's salary is a guarantee of the quality of the trial and of the judge. The judge decides on human destiny, which is decided by doctors, human life. And did they pay for the good work of a doctor? Is it a guarantee of good work and education and knowledge for our children, are teachers, professors, those innovators who will invent a better invention if they have a better salary? So let's not think about how someone should tell us to put the material on the other side and tell you to lie down or lobby for us. In this country, it seems to me that many are losing reality about what we are in. I know as much in the judiciary as I was present in court before I became a parliamentary representative, a permanent court medical expert in a court of Slavonski Brod. And the editing of this matter no matter how long it lasted from the 99th year with 25 changes, it's time for us to finally settle it once and for us to know who's responsible for both the base and the coefficients. The basis suggests, but again the Croatian Parliament is ruled by Croatia and the coefficients, here we have the same as the Croatian Parliament and we adopt them. And what do we have to talk about? I'm more concerned about it when I come as a court medical officer in January to court in Slavonski Brod and take off my long coat that there is no hanger where to hang it, but put it over the chair. And so all the parties, and the lawyers, and all those who are in the case of the case in the ship of Slavon. I think so in other courts, and maybe here and there. I even promised, but I always forget to buy somewhere in the market a hanger to hang himself in the courtroom that we have a place to hang, at my expense, so I'm not looking for anything. And that's consistent with what Mr. Minister said that in the judiciary 80% of the money is spent, so spend on wages. In health care it is up to 70% and it is determined by laws and all other controls in HZZO that it must not interfere with 70% of the costs of the doctor's salary and staff, and 30% for electricity, water, material, medicines and I don't know what. There are other costs in the judiciary for material things. Let's bury wherever you want, in education, in science all but sports maybe, some sports, so education, science, medicine, and justice, and we'll see that that's how it is, that the costs are so enormous that this 20% of the rest is almost seems minor or I won't say funny, it would be too drastic to say it. The right, except for the pay of certain coefficients and base. Other rights that judicial officials and judges have are well listed here which are the rights. These are the same rights that we, as Parliamentarians, have. And these are the compensation for a separate life, the cost of official travel, the cost of eating, the cost of transport to and from work, if the official does not reside in the seat of the judicial authority. This means that the same item of 2 kuna per km is used for the transport of judges if the judge or judicial officer uses his own car. Ask teachers, Doctor, how much do they have for transportation for official purposes? 70 drops a mile. What's the difference? If a teacher from Đakov comes to Slavonski Brod, we talked about mobile labor, that it is excellent, flexible, flexible tariff, and that he gets 70 kuna per km, and if the judge from Đakov comes to help because of the number of cases in Slavonski Brod, he gets 2 kuna per km. What's the difference? What he's doing is doing his judicial work in the boat, and this one's doing his teaching or teaching job in Slavonski Brod. In 35 kilometers, as far as this one gets, 21 kuna, and this one gets 140 kuna. This one works six hours, from eight to one, how long the class is going on, and this one goes on for about five, six hours, eight has to be, from seven to three how the judges are already working, or from eight to four, it doesn't matter how. What he does, it's another thing, but the transport itself is different. So one..., as it is said, the transport is paid by state officials and judges and judicial officials, and the other by public servants, so-called. teachers, teachers, doctors, etc. And transportation is transportation. So, I have to point out some of the things that I'm here listening to the minister, which I know from before and which are kind of bothering me, but I'm also being warned from the field of people, so citizens. They talk about some things and because we see more consultation with the interested public on the pages, so at the end of the text and a report on the consultation with the interested public, we see who came forward from the interested public, even by name who discussed it. Namely, the court in Rijeka and the court in Valpovo and the judge in Krk whose only objection was adopted, as far as I can see from this. Says the remark is accepted, it's adopted. And that's when a judge from Krk has to go to... or other places to perform his judicial task, which requires certain costs at dislocated locations. So, since he pointed out that this is unfavourable and discriminatory in relation to the judicial officials, so even though he lives in Krk, he has the right to compensation. That only remark is accepted, the others are rejected. But in the debates here we hear certain tones stemming from certain circles that thought that, I don't know, what the Constitutional Court does and lead to some increases, but here, as colleagues said by amending the Income Act, this category of officials will be, so I can say quite a bit, their wages will be quite increased, unlike those who have 3.5 thousand salaries, 4 thousand so they will have, what? 50 kuna increase, here will be an increase of over 1000 kuna. And that's what we discussed when it was the Law amending the income law, so I don't want to say any injustice or disproportionately about the increase in wages. The HDSSB Club has no reason not to accept this legislative proposal, although I see that the court, as my colleague Salapic said, reacted very quickly to the Branimir Glavas case which has already been here for the fifth year, and I think if this continues, and the case has been reported to the European Court of Human Rights for a trial within an unreasonable period, not within a reasonable time, but within an unreasonable time period, and that this will in fact be decided by the Constitutional Court at a time when and a decision on release is made in view of the possibilities offered to reduce the sentence of 8 years to those two-thirds of penalties. So, then why the Constitutional Court's decision, no matter what. So it looks like it's waiting. I wouldn't want to prejudge things, I can't go into judicial decisions, that's their thing, but it's really funny, the irony is run by it, but here's what's going on together. It is true that Mr. Minister, when we talk about justice and there is, that this problem of trial is, within a reasonable time, the main problem, that there are 5 thousand submissions for trial in an unreasonable time, that the damages are very large, that they cost the Croatian state, clearly and the Ministry of Justice, that the number of those who... 50% because there are always 2 parties in the process, one to whom the judge condemns, to say positively, he is satisfied, the other is not and that we can always, of those 50% dissatisfied, always doubt or show dissatisfaction with the court's decision. That's right. But in medicine there must be no unsatisfactory patients, no. That number must be much less than 50%, much smaller. Therefore, when we compare the salaries of municipal judge in Slavonski Brod and surgeons with specialization, so medically so... specialization in surgery and more subspecies in plastic surgery from torakal surgery from this one, then you will see that these differences in pay, comparison of these salaries on the side of judges. And very often my colleagues tell me, if we were evened out with judges we'd be satisfied, paying for those eight hours of working hours. But it's not like that. And that is why I welcome this legislative proposal to end it, and that in the end, the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, if God gives us God to raise our GDP and everything else, then we must all, not just change our coefficients to the judges, God. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94350	Vesna Sabolic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94351	Dear Mr Grubisic, I think you misread the provisions of the transport law. The law found that the transport price for judges and other judicial officials outside the court's seat is determined at the level of the lowest price of the ticket in public transport, so I do not think it is a good comparison. And as for the pay comparison, I compared the salaries of the municipal judge to the civil servants. Of course, I'd like to, and we'll check this relationship between doctors and judges, of course, and the only others should have adequate and adequate salaries, but also equal responsibility for the work they do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94352	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94353	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. There's a teacher who travels from Kokočvik village to his home school in Garcin, it's 9km, there's no bus line, the government thank God he doesn't, and how is he going to have to travel his car, and it's said that the price is relative to the bus ticket? No bus, no bus. Why don't you take care of it for me? So how's he gonna charge his travel expenses? So there's no public transport of the direct line Klokočevik-Garcin in our county I think maybe it's not familiar to you, but I know of a specific case. Therefore, it is always best to present specific cases. And as for equating doctors and judges, so of course we're not Mao Zedonga's company where we're going to have "Equity" but clearly we should appreciate what you said or someone said here, I think that colleague Ingrid is the judge of human destiny, and the doctor of human life, and the teacher of our children's knowledge and education. How are we gonna get rid of that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94354	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94355	Thank you, Madam Vice President. There is no such thing as an institution to correct the incorrect allegations, but my colleague Sabalić is in some way and I have received one message in the meantime that it is not true that your claim that judges are getting two kunas. My people from Koprivnica don't get but they get 0.75 and they travel to Varazdin where there's much weaker equipment. We have an extremely decorated palace of justice, 33 million kunas that cost, where both the equipment and all together they go where there is no equipment and is not and thus not stimulated as you say. But I'm glad you mentioned this other thing to compare judges and doctors. Doctors are really often called out because these are so alarming and inscriptions and, of course, when it comes to life that they are also happening, and judges can certainly cut with their decisions one such false cut to make it disrupt a man's entire life and I think it's worth comparing. And as for the doctor, those under difficult conditions, we heard quality and responsible work last night because they are committed to this work and should always be respected. And then there's talk of some kind of medical corruption in the doctor, etc. And he said well to the former minister, and he says how many times have you been to that doctor? A hundred times. And what did you give him? Nothing. That's how you approach these problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94356	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94357	Thank you very much. A colleague of Milinković, your palace of justice is shining, and in Zagreb we always see the state of it. And I honestly know about the different access to travel costs and travel fees, and I thought it was between government officials and those public service employees. And that's how it is. How much do you take for expenses by mile and me and all of us? Two kunas a mile. We need to be honest and get out of here. And then it's not right that there's a difference in this country. I said it was the same thing. He does his job, dislocated, and we do our job which is more than 50km from Zagreb dislocated both you and me and everyone else who comes from Dubrovnik from Split and I don't know where. What's the difference? And there's a difference. I'm taking my hat off to your colleagues who tipped off that it was 0.75 kuna, I didn't know it, I admit I didn't know it, so I said it. If I'd known, I wouldn't have said. I'm in the middle of an ash shower. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94358	On behalf of the DC-New Wave Club of the People's Party of Reformist Vesna Škara Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94359	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, with an associate, respected colleague and colleague. Here is the Law on the Payments of Judges and Other Judicial Officers was passed in '99, and it has changed almost 24 times to this day. These were only amendments and additions to the law, and then the regulations and salaries of judges were initially laid down in a certain percentage of the salary of the President of the Croatian Parliament. That was back in '99. At that time, the 2000 amendments set out the coefficients for each individual official so that the basis for the calculation of judges' salaries at the average monthly salary paid by employees in the Republic of Croatia in the previous year was determined by multiplying those coefficients with the base for the payment of salaries. Then in 2001, it gave up this practice and the basis was determined in 2001, i.e. it was the same as in 2000. So average monthly salary paid by employees in Croatia in '99. The year and then the basis was reduced by 7% in 2001 and the late 2001 amendment said that it would be used as the basis for 2002, which means 7%. The amendments to the law at the end of 2002 set out that the basis for the account of judges' salaries should be the same as the basis for the accounting of salaries of civil servants and subsistence workers and then the coefficients were increased. Then new changes from 2004 were granted the right to minimum work for each year of the completed judicial internship. In the past, it was for each completed year of work, with those provisions not being applied. Now, ultimately, that provision was repealed by the Constitutional Court's decision of 21 March 2007. The new amendments in 2009 then set the basis for the account of judges and other judicial officials are determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and by a special decision. And so far, it's been three decisions that have constantly reduced the base. So since 1 April 2009, the basis has been set at 4000 873 kuna gross, 1 March 2013. 4000 727 kuna and something gross since 1 April 2014 the basis has been established in the amount of 4000 and 483 and something gross. Now, in 2009, the judges recognized such an amendment after the government's decision as the illegal incursion of the executive authority in the judicial authority and submitted a proposal in 2009 for the initiation of the constitutionalisation procedure, Article 1. The law amending the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officers, namely those provisions, which provide that the basis for the account of judges will be determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by a special decision. The Constitutional Court decision was adopted in July of this year and when it was ordered by the Government to practically pass the law by 15th, amend and supplement the law of 15 December 2014. And now a little depression, given that here often, by our side, the colleagues are talking about the Glavas case and the constitutional court's non-resolvement, so for four years, the Glavas case has not been solved, and it has taken four years for the Constitutional Court to make this decision that we need to act practically today. It is not easy to talk about in this situation, in this economic situation to talk about any salary or salary of judges, especially when we see this budget in 2015 of the Ministry of Justice where practically 80% of the budget is paid by judicial employees, i.e. officials, judges and others. All are dissatisfied and, of course, the judges are dissatisfied with the years of wage cuts and the material position. As you can see, he's constantly shrinking. Our situation is economically difficult, often the material position of judges is increased, and in perception, some are created in my opinion and unfair images. The first-degree judge's salary is somewhere around $9,000. Compared to doctors and others, it may be unfair to compare them all because each work is absolutely valuable and beneficial and cannot be without it. I've already said that the judge's pay base has been cut back five years three times. Perhaps it should be said that the excessive work of judges was not paid and there was a need for overtime and especially in the years when the number of cases was greatly increased, when great challenges were put in place to reduce the number of outstanding cases of judges. Some times it was possible to pay but mostly not. Maybe you should here for objectivity that judges never, absolutely never, as far as I know had the right to any benefits. Not on Christmas Eve, not on a gift for children, not on jubilee awards, I don't know, a regress for vacations, that is, when it comes to judges' salaries. So the power of judgment is the 3rd power in the country, the judges are the bearers of the government and they have no such species, they never had this kind of benefits, there's hardly anyone today, but I repeat, because of the objectivity they never had. And judges are practically paying the only security factor. They can't get any, and of course independence, they can't get any other, other receipts. Of the international documents quoted here if they are in favour of precisely the need for this matter to be regulated by law, rather than by government decisions, they speak to the UN principle of independence of the November '95 judiciary. the years where the salaries and pensions of judges are prescribed must be adequate and proportionate to the status, reputation and responsibilities of their service and shall be periodically compared. Then recommendation 94 of the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers from 13 October '94. the years on independence and efficiency in the role of judges where all necessary measures are required to recognise, protect and promote the independence of judges, but are also imposed on the executive and legislative authorities on the obligation to ensure the independence of judges and to prevent any measures which could endanger the independence of judges. It is also required to ensure judicial status and rewarding according to the dignity of the judicial profession. This was all brought before the global crises, but these provisions bind us. European Charter of Laws for Judges of Strasbourg '98. the year is prescribed that judges must give, i.e. the judicial authority must give its opinion on the amendments and additions to the Law on Judges, on the setting of conditions for change, as well as the setting of conditions relating to their salaries and their social situation. That's not the case here. I am precisely because of what I have suggested and the amendment to Article 3 which now stipulates that the basis for calculating the salaries of judges and other judicial officials is determined at the height of what I have stated is 4443,958 kuna gross. The proposal is that the basis for the account of judges and other judicial officials shall be determined in the amount of the average salary paid in the previous calendar year on the basis of data from the Croatian Statistical Office. In this way, we practically introduced a much fairer criterion and we evened it out and this way put the judges in a position to share the fate of everyone else. Thank you very much. Otherwise our club will support...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94360	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94361	Comrade Skare-Ozbolt, there are many similarities in your discussion with some of the things that have happened in my long, 35 years of surgical practice. Namely, when we surgeons very often asked the question of the pay gap between dermatologists, so skin doctor or physicists, those who practice etc. and surgeons, citing as an argument that our job is more difficult, bloodier, more stressful, adrenaline, etc. compared to colleagues. To them, it's a great honor... too. Then our colleagues first told us, and the hospital's administration, and you chose it, you love being a surgeon, and they chose something else. What do you have to ask for a higher salary? She's in health care, she's an equal salary to both dermatologist and surgeon. Now you're saying that the salary of a judge is 9000 kuna. So look how many doctors there are who finish medical school, finish their internship, six years of college, a year of internship and come work somewhere in the hospital, for example. He has a lower salary, much less than 9,000, even smaller than nurses who have 10, 15 years of employment. I'm not going to talk right now, name those people's names and names again, I know them a lot. Of which they will and whether they will do well their medical work with such a small salary, two children at home, women do not work etc. So let's get to know the situation in Croatia once, the situation not only of the perception of poverty but of objective, real poverty in the Republic of Croatia. And no one's going to judge bad because it's a small salary or, I know, I love, where happiness is great, I'm betting we all have a big salary or a salary that we can live a decent life.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94362	Thank you. Replication response, Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94363	I've said several times that I wouldn't want to get into this trap of comparison because they would simply be unfair to everyone. Every job is extremely important. I just want to point out here that paying judges is the only source of income, nothing else, so he can't work in the joint, he can't go to some lawyer's office, so he's still working, he can't take extra income. This is the only pay the judge can receive, and that's the only difference between what you're saying and what I'm saying. But I repeat, I don't want to simply enter this controversy whose work is more valuable.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94364	And Stephen Milinkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94365	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, colleagues of Skare-Ozbolt, I agree that it's ungrateful to compare any occupation and in any way and get trapped. Well, we may not agree with the same profession either, the surgeon will say he's more important, and I'm saying that the doctor of general medicine is out there somewhere. I've been a field doctor for 35 years, so I know what it means to do under what conditions, under what circumstances. But let's let it go now. I want to say one thing, that somehow you impose here the thing is that these doctors are somehow in a good position that they're privileged or anything. It's not true, so they didn't strike for no reason at the time. Yesterday, the court ruled on it. In the meantime, the union has been abolished. Doctors do responsible, hard work, make decisions right now, now, it's not four years. Of course, if the technology of the process and the waiting lists make it impossible for them, it's another pair of sleeves, but right now it's a quick decision to make because life is at stake. And yet here he can stretch out and he can greatly cut off the one awaiting that verdict with his unjust or any other kind of judgment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94366	Answer? No, I don't. The final word of Justice Minister Orsat Milenic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94367	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. I thank you for your support as first. Secondly, this is one matter that is always discussed and will be discussed. The one as you can see when it was built and when the system was set up in '99. A lot has changed since then. That's why there are so many legal changes. And then there was a parallel, and I believe that maybe there was a structure and these ratios that were spoken of. In time, however, they changed. Some have entered the basics of officials, some judicial officials, some state officials. I'm already a very different base, so then the coefficient itself is not an indicator until the end. What is also said I agree that there are now differences between salaries at the same level at the first degree, and there may also be someone asking why someone who can judge 12 years in prison would have the same salary as someone who can judge up to 90 days or someone who has a bigger, smaller, etc. What we see as the future is and it stems from this reorganisation that we're going to, the circle. That's right, I'll call them rank, grade, or whatever we want, which means that within the first degree, people are ranked in several pay systems. And then, as you're also said, you don't have to go to the second degree of the County Court just for the sake of pay. So you can make progress at the first degree, stay in the municipal court because someone likes to do that job. But he must be able to move forward through his career. What I see is that one of the problems is that there is no perspective of career advancement other than the transition to a higher court, and realistically such places are becoming less and less. And that's where, of course, we imagine each of us when we start with some pay, you know, we're talking about the salaries of a municipal judge or a misdemeanor, she can be good when you start. But when you see your perspective, if you didn't go to a higher court that you'd stay on it, that's the problem. And that's one thing we have to address. It's on one side. On the other hand, what's our reality is that we have as much money as we have. We spend 80% on wages. You know we've managed to rebalance all the costs now and we've done it. But it means 20 percent we have to pay for everything else. At the same time, I'll say we've led policy so far that everything has been settled by hiring new people. And I could accept that people are employed for a certain time as counselors and they need status reconsidered because they are also doing a responsible job. But we actually hired judicial officials until we were 70. And we now have a simple large number. Wherever we're doing the analysis, it tells us that we have more people at national level in general than we need. Of course, that's where the question arises why do we not have better results? And pay is not an element. I'm sure no one will work better or worse because of their pay. It must be encouraging and I will also agree with everyone who has said that this basic salary is too low. In fact, it's not too low if it's changed over the years of life and progress. That's what this is about. And another parallel. You have information published by the Commission, published by the Council of Europe. Our average beginner wages are above average just like I speak relatively. So compared to the average salary in Croatia and in those countries. So, not absolutely, of course, we can't measure in absolutes, just like the highest-ranking wages. They are relatively when compared to the average salary above that European environment and that is also a fact. The fact that we can all talk about them is that they're too small. I'll tell you, Ministerial salary, I don't think it's going into a hundred highest judicial salaries. I'm not talking about mine, I've chosen. He's pleased with me, and I'm not speaking at all, but I want to tell you what the parameters are. But I'll also agree with what's been said that since there's no extra income that these salaries are, especially when someone's been working on the first degree for a long time that they're absolutely too low. So we see a vision in those ranks, so it's progressing within one degree, that these wages go up. But believe me, it's very difficult to lift, and in order to correct some injustices, we should maybe bring it down, which we won't. And that's why some of the things that we see here may not be logical until the end we don't touch because we should go down, and we won't touch that. Here, that's some kind of policy we've taken. Let's all go, let's hope there's a chance they can grow. Why aren't they related to the cost of living? Because we think that the Parliament should decide on this in the context of everything changed, automation will then be asked about all wages. We can introduce him to everyone that it's automation. I don't think it's good to single out one segment and say there's automation, somewhere else it's not. Either we all follow or we don't wash. That's the attitude we've taken. But that's for sure, you can talk further. Here's another thank you for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94368	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We will vote on the bill on Tuesday most likely. Final draft law amending the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officers, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 740, the debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by representative Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. Do we have a representative of the Justice Department? ... We'll vote when the conditions are met, when we have a motionary. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94371	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the government does not accept the proposed amendment. The proposed amendment refers to the gross basis for calculating the salaries of judges and other judicial officials by means of an average salary paid in the previous calendar year according to data published by the State Statistics Office. According to the March 2014 DZS, the average monthly paid net salary per legal person employed in the Republic of Croatia was 5515 kuna and grossed 7939 kuna. If the salary was calculated as proposed by the amendment then it would be increased by around 1070 kuna or there would be an increase of 24% for all judges and judicial officials. Such an increase is excessive given the state of the budget that we have discussed online. Therefore, the amendment is unacceptable in this regard and given the state of the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94372	Thank you. The representative is not present, so I ask that we vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. The amendment didn't go through. And I now put to the vote the final draft law amending the Law on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials. Please, let's vote. I find that the law P.Z. was passed unanimously. No. 740. And we will discuss - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Juvenile Courts, First Reading, P.Z. No. 732. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received the reports at the session. Introducing the bill, the justice minister, Mr Orsat Milenic, will explain. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94374	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. So the amendments and additions to the Law on Juvenile Courts are likely to lead to a debate on the proposal, meaning primarily on this judicial network. And it's actually the most important change that this law makes. So, I'll tell you who they are, and then I'll go into the details. So one is to concentrate a juvenile trial at the justice center. Two, we specify within the framework of the reorganization of who will and how these items end. Three, one thing we're working on, and this is about people who are 23 years old during the appeal procedure. It means what they're under, under juvenile or under this juvenile prison. We tighten the criteria for lawyers in some way who can even deal with minors because we're asking judges and state lawyers for them, and it's logical that lawyers as a party also have them. In the underage study, we allow the other officials not only to do this for the young and the rest of them are termological harmonisations. And now everything like I said seems simple, but what we have and we have received a lot of reactions from the field, and we are also having a public debate and I am glad to say that this is a law that goes into two readings, so we will certainly discuss it here, that is to rationalise it, that is to end the youth department in the municipality courts of Gospić, Čakovec, Koprivnica, Požega, Virovitica and Zlatar. That's something, but what? I'll tell you why we think we should do it and what are the reasons and what are the figures. And of course, we'll see through the debate where we're going and how we're going. So, first numbers. Gospić, inflow of first-degree cases in 2012, 22, 2013 28 in court. There were more of them at the state's attorney's office, but on the principle of opportunity, because most of them are being dealt with here, it's not enough for one judge to run a full standard. Not to mention the conditions required by the CAP and the Law on Courts for Youth and Councils, etc. Chakovec, 137, 161. So I'm talking about the inflow to court. Of course, 62% of the opportunity principle is almost resolved, so at the state's attorney's office level. So that's where we're talking about maybe two judges. We don't have those three for the council again. Koprivnica 151 2012, 2013. 91. I'm again speaking inflow to court, it's a much bigger inflow of applications, but the good part is being solved at the level of municipal lawyers. Also, one judge or maybe two. Požega, 39 items 2012, 2013 45. Viral 75, 74. The jeweler is 72, 110. So that's the numbers. Of course we always have these other elements here. So we have an element that we're talking about, access to justice, the need for more sensitive objects to be handled in other ways, etc. And that's something to talk about. However, also all conventions, all talks at the level of primarily European talk about the need to concentrate the procedure precisely in this type of case, that it is necessary to go towards specialisation, that it is necessary to enable people to qualify for this, that is a particularly sensitive population, that it should be done by people who are primarily teamed. So that's something we're told and what's the future. So whatever Parliament vote here sooner or later we'll go to this concentration because it's the future. What we see as one I'm not going to say compensation but as a way of solving it is that part of the thing is covered by fate days, and the part that is actually being solved at the level of municipal state attorneys where and now it's being solved as I've just told you 50, 60% of the cases on the principle of opportunity. But we are convinced that, because of our better and more efficient actions, when we look at a wider picture, we should go to this rationalization and that it is something that will inevitably happen. We think it's mature time for her now, so we suggest it. We won, I have to say a lot of field remarks right now, enough, talk about it. That's why I said we've got two readings and we'll have a public debate, and here we start today in Parliament with her, and we'll take her on. We're willing to listen to every argument, but from the point of view of the need for this to be a juvenile trial, it needs to be specialized. This is achieved only by concentration, meaning smaller points with more people dealing with it, which simply enter into practice and can solve it. That's below 1. Under the second days of judgment, we can compensate for this need for the availability of the court. And three, let's always look at the network of state attorneys that actually solve 50, 60% of cases that never come to court, I'm talking about applications. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94375	Thank you, Minister. Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94376	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, I remember very well identically almost the same way when you talk about the abolition of these youth departments in municipal courts, in the same way you said if you remember the abolition of criminal departments in certain municipal courts when we warned you about it, saying it was a rationalization. I particularly apostrophe of the then Municipal Court in Imotski, whom you then abolished, and you attached it to the municipal court in Sinj, and now you have relocated it to the municipal court in Split, not thinking about how much and what costs you will have, both for judges, for services, for witnesses, travel expenses and the like. So let's say for this rationalisation in 2014 you had a projected amount of 19.5 million kuna, and for 2015, 43.9 million kuna. Again, because of this rationalisation of the conduct of the 2015 procedure, you had the jurisdiction of county courts 245 million kuna, commercial courts 81 million kuna and what is very important and the funds that have increased precisely because of your decision, because of a decision that is not thoroughly analysed by municipal courts, in the jurisdiction of municipal courts, the management of court proceedings is 589 million and 450 thousand kuna. I am speaking to you from the items in the budget for the conduct of judicial proceedings under the jurisdiction of municipal courts. We are only talking about increasing costs, increasing the costs of handling procedures precisely because you have abolished the penal departments where you shouldn't have and logic itself requires you from Imotski, to Sinj, or to Split to increase costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94377	Thank you. The reply to the replica of Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94378	Thank you very much. I'm always glad to take care of expenses, but those aren't your expenses. So, the increase that I'm talking about is primarily because of the intellectual services that you know there is a permanent debt that we're now rebalance on, so we're getting into deadlines, and that's why we've increased for the experts, defenders by official duty, just so next year we don't get into debt again, and so there's no situation that's unfortunately been present in the Croatian judiciary, and here's a colleague will remember, I don't think it was at that time, but she's been present for a very long time. So he's very late for payments. So, first and foremost. As far as the journey goes, very few will be. I'll tell you what, I'll tell you now, the area of Osijek, no judge will travel, and Osijek will take over all the criminal cases. So, the citizens of Imotsky, that they will have more civil courts, there is no need to travel a criminal judge if, in such a way, there are enough criminal judges to take over these cases and not travel. And citizens will have more judges to deal with these more liquid objects that the vast majority face much more. There's a ratio, I don't know by heart, but 1:15 is the ratio between civil and criminal. So that's what this is about. Just by respecting that, you know that Metkovic was in the first proposal, so we left him just because of the border. So that's why I said, we're having a public debate and we're listening to arguments from the field, but this cost increase has nothing to do with it. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94379	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94380	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, you often mention this word rationalization and it's often heard, and I want to tell Mr. Minister that the worst thing to do is to rationalize it on those weakest, most vulnerable. Because the reverse damage can be far greater. You also talked about this statistics on courts and you mentioned, among other things, the Municipal Court in Koprivnica, how much he handled the case. This means that he agreed with what you're saying about the specialization of judges who are highly specialized, educated, have quality professional associates, have excellent cooperation with centres for social care, state's attorneys and quality and work well. And that's what you said yourself that a coprivni court is one of the most pressing in the state. It's true, it is, fine. And now for one more thing, then you said that conventions, all conventions talk about concentration. Don't speak to the Convention on the Rights of the Child about that concentration. These will lead the child into an unfavourable position, will be brought in, and will be made inaccessible and must be contrary to the convention. And secondly, it is not in accordance with the Convention on Human Rights with Article 6 where it is said that access to court is therefore also necessary to ensure. That's not true. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94381	The reply to the replica of Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94382	Thank you very much. So, I'm avoiding the word rationalization, I hope I didn't use it, if I did. I was talking about concentration. The rationalization in the judiciary, the judiciary costs itself, and we can never do the math that two and two are four and that's it. I'm the figures here and the numbers that I've expressed as an illustration, and I said that they point to something we should do, which we think we should do, but that we're open to talking about each and every area and court, because it has some specificities. There is also a Chakovec of its specificities to be understood immediately, simple areas are different. But, come on, when we're just one thing we look at in the ministry, and I hope it's in the debate, let's not always look at the court's interest, let's look at those minors' interests and start all by ourselves. When we talk about concentration, we always asked ourselves if we wanted to, and that might refer to the medical profession a lot more, but let's talk here. Do you want to be judged by someone who's had thousands or hundreds of cases like that? And there's your first and primary question, just ask yourself that. You as a party to which someone will decide whether someone who does it all the time and made them a thousand, two or five, or simply because of a small inflow works 50 or 100. I'm not saying this is always gonna get any worse where it's less, but let's think about it. And it can't be a prevailing principle at all, but we need to consider it, we need to consider that society,... that you have to allow people to specialize as much as possible and to deal with one thing. [[I don't understand the speaker.]] Unfortunately, we'd all like to be wider and do as much as possible but we have to go towards some kind of tight specializations in all the branches, so here and here. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94383	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of Croatian Labour Club colleague Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94384	Thank you, well-respected deputy minister. Well, first of all, I'm going to start with what you're saying, along the way, that thank God we have a minister in this government who doesn't exactly send all the laws into emergency procedures. From your ministry if I'm not mistaken most often come just like this in two readings, which is by the assessment that I've noticed all of you here is something that should be as normal. At first, you pointed out that this is essentially a matter of harmonising with the amendments to the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts. You have presented several figures that actually speak about these courts that are practically now being abolished, or attached, but you have not said anything that your colleague has just asked questions, what are the effects, whether there are any analyses, which are the effects of this so far, and yet you have used the word rationalization because you have subsequently found that it cannot be used in everything as the main criterion of the financial effect. And it can't always be a financial effect something that's crucial, but we'd like to know what the financial effects are. On the other hand, I'm interested in what's the consequence of joining these courts, what's the consequence of the number of employees? And right now, I don't only think about judges, but also about those accompanying staff that, since it's usually about some kind of, I don't know, official terminology, whether it's a writer, or what it is, but let's just say if a person like that at about 40, 45 years old loses his job, I'm afraid there isn't, especially in those small environments that we're talking about, I'm afraid there's no real chance of finding another replacement job. You mentioned a specialization and a positive effect of specialization, even though you made some kind of parallel with medicine. And I'm glad to hear it, I'm certainly one of those who'd rather go to a doctor for surgery and if I know he's doing thousands or several thousand than someone who's operating on mandules twice a year. But whether this specialization may have at times an excessive price and whether this is a question asked by fellow Milinkovic, and I have the impression that you have either heard the question or skipped or I have not heard the answer, whether or not the intrusion in that convention that my colleague mentioned, the child's rights convention, I think that article 6 mentioned. Is there an intrusion into that part, and if so, what can we expect as a consequence? On the other hand, I must point out that in the previous agenda point, you mentioned another problem, and that is the possibility that judges can judge up to 70 years and now I'm asking myself a question, I'm not an expert on this subject, but how realistically can a youth court have an understanding of someone who has 70 years of age for the problems of those people covered by this law, the Youth Act? There are individual examples that confirm practice, and here I believe that Mr. Shakespeare who has just rebelled against this sentence of mine, I believe that he would have heard of these youth problems, but let's face it, it's perhaps a troubled circumstance. I'm not going to argue that it is, but I think it could be and it's not crucial that it's in every situation, we're not all the same. And that would be about what I'd be tied to... All right. Okay, I can see I'm listening very carefully, so I expect an answer to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94385	Vesna Sabolic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94386	Dear colleagues, I would just like to warn you that we have a law on banning discrimination and by age so that it is not appropriate to discuss it in such a way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94387	The answer to the line, yes, yes? Young Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94388	Well, to be honest, I had no intention of discriminating anyone or being told that. The fact is that someone at 30 isn't capable of being someone else at 50, but it's also very likely that with a certain age it might be in a little bit, not to say, a more unfavourable situation than the younger ones. Especially when it comes to the fact that you need to characterise something that is, let's say, what is younger lifespan, given that youth courts mainly refer to it, rather than mainly, but exclusively to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94389	Well, I guess the judges are judging by the law, not by whether they're young or old. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Davor Milicevic. Here you go, buddy. My colleague Milicevic, I'm sorry, the minister asked for a word, and I didn't notice. Minister Orsat Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94390	Thank you very much. Question, so this 70 years, I'm really not going to get into it, I think whoever's doing a good job is doing it right. This is where the founder decided how long he'd be working it, and that's where it starts and ends. As far as specialization is concerned, so also, of course we don't have to give it either, see it as an absolute solution to all the problems, now we're going to say, this one's specialized, we won't have any more problems. However, the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse insists that measures should be adopted to specialise in these proceedings. If you have one person who does this, you can't specialize because you must have at least three judges as a council. And what happens to us is that where we don't have enough capacity we actually take civil judges and we can't talk about specialization. I'm not saying it's necessarily worse treatment, but I'm telling you what we need to strive for. The proposal for a directive on procedural guarantees for children, therefore at EU level, also says the specialisation of all participants in minor proceedings is needed, can continue to list. So that's one trend that we're talking about whether we're going to cut through tomorrow and say it that way, but let's speak openly about what the benefits are, what the flaws are. And the advantage is always that when you concentrate more participants in a process that deals with the same things, you can usually raise quality. I repeat, I'm not saying somewhere else is unquality but you can work on it. The CAP is very demanding in terms of Council composition deadlines, and we here very often do not have enough criminal judges. Well, you know that some things fall on us in the Constitutional Court because I don't know in the second degree had to be done by people who did something in the first degree. There weren't enough people. So that's something we have to vote on on one side for one legal solution, but then we need to know that it's being repainted into other laws. So I say we look at each other. So in that context, as far as this is concerned, there will be no journey. We're here to imagine that the ODOs are holding something wide-ranging because they're solving 50, 60% I think here I told you the figures. So you'd already be there if you had 70 items somewhere, and the State's Attorney's office would solve 35 then the 35 is much easier to go to one place. So I say add eventually and fateful days, and then I think we covered this problem that we were talking about. But I'm saying the debate is here we'll talk about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94391	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94392	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I agree, Mr. Minister, that it's not directed to discuss these 70 years and that there's no discrimination allowed by that age, but it occurred to me that when the debate about that law I think about working and going to retirement then one of our citizens sent Mrsić this interesting recommendation, God told you when you got hit by a heart attack and that you were driven by an ambulance driver at 67 years old, here's an example of which I remembered was such a message I read, but let's let it go now. I'm holding Mr. Secretary that specialization is very important. We in medicine not only have specialization we have subspecies and it is what people do top quality work in a particular area and have improved even better in that part. And in that part here I am speaking from the position of my municipal court, which is both at this speed of resolution and which expertise and its specialization, and of course by the smaller inflow of the case you have spoken about, I can very well respond to these requirements in this month as a matter of priority. So what's better, fast, efficient on time and professionally so I think it meets all the criteria and your ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94393	Do you want to answer the Minister's question? Here you go, pal Milicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94394	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. The legislator finds the need to amend the Law on Juvenile Courts in the need to comply with the Penal Code and to improve certain legal provisions in accordance with the need for practice. Also, the Law on Areas of Headquarters and Courts prescribed the rationalisation of the judicial network in a way that divides the territory of the Republic of Croatia into 15 county courts, 24 municipal courts, 22 infringement courts and a new organisation of a network of commercial courts with the aim of rationalising the juvenile branch of the judiciary as well as improving the quality of the trial in this branch, and suggests that the abolition of the Youth Department in the municipal courts in Gospić, Čakovec, Koprivnica, Virovitica, Požega and Zlatar, and further states that the juvenile trial is concentrated at the headquarters of a particular judicial area with the aim of further specialisation of judges working on juvenile cases and according to the proposed law, will result in an increase in the quality of work on these cases, and law enforcement does not require additional resources in the state budget. The very superficial analysis of the objective of this law can conclude that the adoption of this law will not achieve the declared objectives but will have an administrative opposite effect. Namely, all the above-listed courts are courts with long-standing trial practice in the juvenile branch of the trial, these are judges who apply the Law on Juvenile Courts for many years and these judges so that they could be judges for youth have passed a number of educations. And now the amendments to the law above have told judges and judges overnight to stop working on these cases and it would be illusory to expect that they will go to work on another court, which in some cases lies 50km away from those courts for payment. Furthermore, if this were to happen, if someone had decided to go to these new courts, it would have become an obligation for the state to compensate those judges for the costs of transport that they had not so far, and it is not clear that the implementation of this law does not require additional resources in the state budget. In addition, as the aim of judicial reform is to reduce budget costs, I believe that this will not be achieved by reducing the network of courts in the proposed way, and in this way would reduce the effectiveness and availability of legal protection for every citizen of the Republic of Croatia wherever he lives, and would lead to dissatisfaction in areas where there would be no more of these courts, and leading to the depopulation of areas already seriously present, which is certainly not and should not be the aim of any government in the Republic. For these reasons, the reform of the judiciary cannot be seen as a single reform, but rather in line with the declared policy in terms of the even development of all areas of support for the population in all these areas. In addition, I do not understand how the abolition of the youth department in the above mentioned courts will result in an increase in the quality of work on these cases or what quality of work so far has been to talk about some increase in the quality of work in the future. In fact, citizens have so far had a quick and accessible trial in most parts of Croatia and the proposed reform will happen exactly the opposite, there will be no faster, more accessible and less costs of the trial. The legislator in the draft law, i.e. In his explanation, he did not state what problems were involved in the application of the Law on Juvenile Courts. In the above-mentioned courts, there may be any need to increase the quality of work on these cases at all. In addition, Article 3 amends the current Article 54(1) of the Law on Juvenile Courts and states that a lawyer under official duty may only be a lawyer who has been a lawyer for at least 5 years or as a lawyer in a judicial body except in criminal proceedings for which a long-term prison sentence is prescribed when a lawyer under official duty can only be a lawyer who has a practice of at least 8 years as a lawyer or as an official in a judicial body. The defender shall be appointed from the order of lawyers who must have a distinct tendency to raise, need and break young people and to rule with basic knowledge from the field of criminology, social pedagogy, psychology of young people and social work for young people and from the list of lawyers for youth of the bar. At the very least, such a provision of the law is inconclusive, primarily which is unclear who and how, before setting up a lawyer under official duty, it will determine his tendency to raise, need and break youth, and determine that he is ruling with basic knowledge in the field of crime, social pedagogy, youth psychology and social work for younger people. In addition, the stated provision contradicts itself because it states that a lawyer under official duty can only be a lawyer who has a practice of at least 5 years as a lawyer or as an official in a judicial body. It will conclude that a lawyer who has been transferred from office from the judicial authorities may be elected as a lawyer. the assistant minister of justice who has not one day spent in the practice of working as a lawyer and on the other hand the need for a longer number of years of practice as a lawyer is prescribed. The above can also be said of Article 4 of the Law and related to Article 69. The Law on Juvenile Courts concerning the special establishment of police officers where the same article contradicts the fact that something will be done by a youth police officer and then that others can do so if these first ones are not there and I do not understand why this should be regulated by special law when it is always the same in practice. I hope that the minister will accept individual reflections and correct and accept at least some remarks in the second reading, given that laws already adopted are directly related to the Law on Courts for Youth, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94395	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94396	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Ministers with Associates, colleagues and colleagues. The proceedings before the courts for youth should be in the function of achieving the educational and protective purposes of juvenile sanctions. Legislative orientation should seek to promote the welfare of minors and protect their interests. Therefore, the SDP club supports the concentration of juvenile trials in the headquarters of individual judicial areas with the aim of further specialised judges working on juvenile cases. Of course, the above will lead to an increase in the quality of work on these items which, due to their specificities, both in the process and in the purpose of juvenile sanctions necessarily require the specialisation of all participants in the procedure. The purpose of juvenile sanctions is to bring about educational measures which, by providing protection, care, assistance and supervision and by ensuring the general and professional training of minors, affect their education, the development of their entire personality and the strengthening of their personal responsibilities in order to refrain from committing crimes again. The purpose is to influence the further development of their personality and the strengthening of their personal responsibilities by taking measures of education, education and vocational training. Youth judges must have a distinct tendency to raise, need and break youth, have basic knowledge in the area of criminology, social pedagogy, youth psychology and social work for young people. Juvenile judges are appointed from the ranks of professors, teachers, educators and other persons who have working experience in professional education and working with young people. It is therefore necessary and as these amendments and additions also provide that the lawyer who could be appointed as a defendant under the official duty of a minor must meet the same criteria as the judges and also the state's youth attorneys. In addition to youth police officers, it is possible to provide a uniform and systematic education of all legal professionals in juvenile proceedings and all in order to ensure comprehensive protection and strengthening of the procedural rights of children and tailored access to them in criminal proceedings. By abolishing the youth department in the municipality courts in Gospić, Čakovec, Koprivnica, Požega, Virovitica and Zlatar, we do not concentrate juvenile trial at the headquarters of a particular judicial area with the aim of further specialising courts working on juvenile cases, and that is the only consequence of the application of the provisions of the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts to which we have rationalized the judicial network. In view of the rationalisation of the judicial network under the Law on the Areas and Seats of the Courts and given that the courts in which the Youth Department is abolished do not have enough cases, that in some of these courts there are not enough cases for a single judge and the minimum is that there are cases for at least two judges, the SDP Club supports the rationalisation of the juvenile branch of the trial. I think we'll all agree that those who have legal experience and who don't, that according to the framework criteria, one judge in the litigatory branch of the trial can have a standard of about 30 cases per month and courts, mostly these courts, which are proposed by these amendments and additions to abolish the youth department, have a one-year, one-month, one-month standard of a litigator. So some have under 30 objects, and some have about 60. What is certainly important and what we heard from the minister who stressed that we must make sure that the youth council has at least three judges. So because of all this, we're going to support these changes and additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94397	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, colleague Vesna Sabolic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94398	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Honorable ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. The HNS Club will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Juvenile Courts. With amendments and additions, this law is in line with the recently adopted Law on the Areas and Seats of Courts, as we have heard. This concentrates the courts in the justice centres with the aim of further specialisation as we have heard judges and other officials working on juvenile cases. Only in 1997 did Croatia receive a special Law on minors in which the material and procedural and legal position of minors and minors was arranged. The same law also regulates the structure and jurisdiction of the courts for youth, which is in line with the initial reforms of the judicial system in the Republic of Croatia. The adoption of this law and the amendments that followed in 2011 and 2012 took particular account of the area of prevention of juvenile delinquency. The juvenile trial is particularly sensitive and socially significant because it contains both a judicial and a protective factor. The criminal proceedings against minors are a special form of criminal proceedings which is characterized by many specificities in relation to regular criminal proceedings against adult defendants. These particularities of juvenile criminal proceedings make it significantly different from the ordinary procedure. The differences between them are conditioned by the young age of a minor and by a special purpose that is intended to be achieved. While the purpose of the ordinary criminal proceedings is to ensure that state instruments of public punishment are applied through standardised rules, etc., so far in criminal proceedings before a court of youth the existence of a criminal offence and guilt are not the only ones and neither is the main criterion for a court ruling on the application of sanctions against a minor, which will also say that the purpose of criminal treatment against a minor is different from that of a regular criminal procedure. It takes much more knowledge, not only from the field of legal science but also from pedagogical and sociological, more experience in this field of trial, more social and social sensitivity. That is why this trial requires the specialisation of all participants in the proceedings, whether for the perpetrator's sake or for the purpose of juvenile sanctions. This will be achieved by concentrating in courts that will have the best conditions for this, starting with human and spatial potentials and to experience in working with minors, which should be taken into account in particular. These changes are only the first step towards modern, efficient regulation of the judicial branch, which requires a multidisciplinary approach and special sensitivity, as the minister presented to us in the opening statement. For this reason, the HNS accepts this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94399	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94400	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I didn't mean to answer, but this last thing you mentioned to your colleagues, Sabalić, is that, I agree with you that you need expertise, speciality and special sensitivity, all of these things stand, but you said at the end of the day one thing, that this will be achieved in courts that have the best to say both the spatial and functional and other equipment. That's not true. Absolutely not. That's an incorrect quote. Why? So the best equipment for this is our area where we have in Koprivnica where a new palace of justice is built worth 33 million, where people are trained, where within a month they solve, where they specialize and give priority to solving these items. So these things just don't stand. We already have here, and let's not fix what's not broken. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94401	The answer to the replica? No, I don't. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU colleague Zeljko Shemper.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94402	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The Honorable Minister with an associate. These amendments to the Law on Juvenile Courts, as the Proposer says, are in line with the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts which has prescribed rationalisation or better to say the abolition of some and the reduction of 15 county courts, 24 municipal courts, 22 infringements and a new network of commercial courts. Now, with the amendments to the Law on Youth Courts, the promoter points out as objectives to improving the quality of the trial, specialising the judges and repealing the Youth Department at the Municipal Courts in Gospić, Čakovec, Koprivnica, Požega, Virovitica and Zlatar. As it is said in the reasons for amending the law, these changes are concentrated in the justice centres. The objective is to further specialize judges working on juvenile cases, which should lead to an increase in the quality of work due to the specificity of both the proceedings and the juvenile sanctions. Those who know the system a little better and all its specificities say that these changes will not lead to a significant quality of trial, but there will be higher costs, which is certainly not the goal of any rationalisation. From the point of view of greater distance and less traffic connections between the youth departments and seats in larger cities, there will be higher costs of party travel. The problem will also be for parents who participate in the process as legal advocates of minors, damaged in criminal procedures for non-payment of alimony. Due to the very nature of the criminal proceedings principle, and this principle of directness and contradiction, the witness must give his statement in the proceedings, and if the defendant does not come to this hearing, the debate must be postponed and the witness must come again. The proposed amendments change the actual jurisdiction, so that all proceedings are initiated although they will have to be resolved before the end before the competent second court, and the evidence already carried out, the witnesses questioned again. Transferring proceedings to a small number of courts will lead to the burden of these judges, and therefore to impunity because they will not be able to resolve the cases obtained within the optimal time limit. In view of the principle and the winged, the parties will not travel, but the judges will now travel both judges and professional staff, for example, from Koprivnica to Varazdin as well as the parties, i.e. parents and their children. For example, the town of Voćin, which will be in the jurisdiction of the Municipality Court in Bjelovar, and so far the court in Virovitica is 93 km from Bjelovar. Furthermore, the seat of Ferdinandovac so far in the jurisdiction of the court in Koprivnica of Varazdin is 88 km away. I'm really interested in where and where there's going to be savings, even with worse working conditions. Seems to be the most important concentration in big cities. The question of the child's well-being which is the basis of the Convention on the Rights of the Child is raised, as the court will be inaccessible to them. In practice, there are many cases of non-judgment or arrest with police escorts, which also ultimately increases costs. These amendments to the laws violate the basic principles of access and availability of courts to citizens in particular, making it difficult for them to exercise their rights. At the end of the abolition of the Youth Department, the biggest victims of such a proposed rationalisation will be children as damaged by the procedure, which would lead those minors and younger adult offenders to an unfavourable position in relation to adult perpetrators of criminal offences who would continue to be tried in the above mentioned Municipal Courts. I personally do not see any benefit from such rationalisation, except for higher costs for both parties and the state budget. Dear Ministers, the people of Koprivnica wonder why as taxpayers they had to spend 33 million kunas in an energy-efficient new palace of justice, if now under the parole of rationalization everything must be moved more or less to Varazdin who certainly does not have such conditions. Therefore, if there are better conditions such as Koprivnica and Zlatar would not stay in smaller cities, all of them must move to larger cities, i.e. the future seats of the regions. Given the numerous issues and dilemmas that arise among citizens, the amendments to this law are not certain that they will achieve rationalisation, i.e. savings in the state budget and improved quality of youth trials. Finally, there are many arguments for the stay of the Youth Department in Koprivnica. In the new palace of justice there is an adequate space adapted to the trial of minors, a video link, a space to examine children. Koprivnica has a professional fit of judges, state lawyers, professional associates specialized in the long tradition of such a trial. The Koprivnica Municipal Court has an exceptional awareness of juvenile cases within a month. The area of the Municipal and County Court in Varazdin where you should move to the Youth Department is insufficient and adequate. Therefore, respected ministers, there is no reasonable reason to abolish the Youth Department in Koprivnica, so they cannot accept such rationalisation that leads to a drop in quality and an increase in costs as is apparent for those reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94403	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94404	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I agree with all that, and I support it, and for the reason that you said, let's say I won't raise my hand to this law. But I'm asking you if you're aware of how many times you've raised your hand for some other laws while in some other cities something like that was lifted and when we argued that people would have to travel, that there would be other costs. And there's one more thing I'm asking you. Will you be able to get your colleague and colleague from the town of Koprivnica under the Kukuriku coalition that you are a member of HSU to vote against this law, or to support your debate. It's a question that we can talk here locally at this point. This has nothing to do with general matters, but locally because it is definitely often passed such laws that unfortunately require the costs of citizens they may not need. And that question and the argument of the palace of justice, I don't know. Perhaps he should have thought about it before going into the project, before building it because today is not an argument. Today is an argument of children and people who will have to travel. That's the main argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94405	Replication response, Zeljko Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94406	Well, colleague Hrg, you said you'd completely agree with my debate but you always have some provocative questions to drag me by the tongue about how I'm going to vote, how I'm going to, whether I'm going to influence the vote of my colleagues. I'll vote for my beliefs, and for others I don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94407	Minister Orsat Milenić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94408	Thank you very much. Here's just maybe to clear up some misunderstandings. So, like I said, the law is here, there's a public debate, and we're going to talk about every segment of it and this segment. No one would travel from Koprivnica. All the people who work there would still work. In Varazdin, they can take over all these items without increasing, so they can start working tomorrow. There's no such thing as expenses. And there's no idea of emptying the Varazdin Palace of Justice and filling up some other one. Of course, I am convinced that the citizens of Koprivnica would then be better at making use of the existing and judges if you wanted to because they would do other cases have better overall legal protection than they do now. But I repeat, the thing is, that's what we're gonna talk about. Also, 51, 52% depends on how many years of cases would be dealt with in Koprivnica because they are being solved by the Municipal State Attorney's Office. So they don't even come to court. So the technology is that almost 50% of your cases get rid of by the ODO in which places, in Koprivnica, it's the 50th. Because then 50 percent ends up in court. And it's true, then those between 150 and 91 would depend on what year we're looking at objects, so that's a maximum of 1 in 2 days or 1 in 3, 4 days you'd go to Varazdin. The minors do not pay the cost in these procedures, so for them no cost would be increased. I say the travel staff would be gone. It would simply be those judges who were in Varazdin that would get more objects than they could under the norm. We checked that with the President of the Court. So that's what this is about. But it's not about us sending 10 or 20 people from Koprivnica to work in Varazdin. There's no need for that. And they would work, of course, as judges and as servants of their own affairs of another. And then you might as a citizen's object that you're waiting for now I don't know how to memorize that the Koprivnica Court is very up-to-date and very good it's absolutely, an object that you've been waiting for two years might get it in a year and a half. That would be a difference. So we can talk in each of these areas separately. You've now apostrophe of Koprivnica and that's why I'm saying it. So, there wouldn't be any gatherings about that. And Koprivnica here may be specific because of this Palace of Justice, because it has conditions, but these others that we're talking about now we're in a program with UNICEF for editing and certain hearing rooms for minors etc., you can afford it at a smaller location, we can't afford it at all locations. So let us consider whether it is better to provide the child and also to travel once in a lifetime but also to have the help of psychologists, professional associates, etc. Because it can all be put in one place if you have a lot of objects. But you can't keep a psychologist somewhere where you have an object every three days. I mean, we just can't afford it. And that's what this is about. So I'm saying, this is the thing to talk about. We're going in a vision like this, and we're going to go towards this sooner or later. If the Parliament doesn't vote in this rush right now, we'll talk about it, but this is something, here's your psychologist's a good thing or an expert associate. You can't pay for it if you don't have a class. For some of these courts, we release Koprivnica, they have a minor one in five days, once a week. And now you're going to what? Keep all staff, professional associate, psychologist, etc. For one item a week? That's not worth it. You'll keep them where they'll work every day for five items, two items or how many items they need. So we have to look long-term. And now, as we're going to do in this case, I know the building is great, it's arranged, it's done well, it's done etc. when we talk about this, but let's look at the bigger picture. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94409	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94410	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, you said these in Varazdin courts could take over all cases immediately and deal with them immediately. ... Yeah, yeah, that's exactly what I thought, that's right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I don't think it holds water at all, and I'm going to use a little legal terminology because this change changes real jurisdiction, right? So that although some of them have to go before the end, some of them are before the end, they will have to step forward and resolve before others where the principle of directness will therefore have to be re-proved. So it's a journey again and it can't be right now, not at all. So that's my thinking. Second of all, you said that in Koprivnica, the ODOs solve etc. Quick. Okay, well, that's the same confirmation that good cooperation between judges has been specialized and professional services have been set up. And a very simple proposal, so if it's a good space, if they're educated people, if they're specialized people and they travel from Varazdin if they're needed, let them come here, and that way they'll show decentralisation in the right sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94411	Minister Orsat Milenic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94412	Thank you very much. So, in some things, what you said was good cooperation, etc. I couldn't agree more, and the building is good, etc. This burden would have gone well enough so that, within the framework of the framework criteria, all of this could be resolved in the regular course. But I'm saying there's a proposal, the Parliament voted him out, and we'll talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94413	On behalf of the HDSSB club, colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94414	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary with your associate. This is the first reading you have said and we all have the opportunity today to express our opinion on this legislative proposal, although I think you are this legislative proposal and it's being read out of your performance and not to say the way of exposure that you firmly believe in the positive side of this bill. Namely, the Court of Youth is a specific court, it requires both judges and other professional persons who appear in this regard, as you yourself have said psychologist, expert associate and pedagogogogical that the judge knows all the elements and these professions, and psychology, and pedagogy and a number of other social sciences, etc. I don't want to say philosophy. Therefore, these courts as well, you have compared one piece with very short and medicine, so clearly you would rather go to the one who has made 1000 laparoscopys or who is just beginning with 10, 15 laparoscopys where he is insecure and where the results are very questionable, and the one who has 1000 laparoscopys has a very sovereign government of technology, technology, methodology and solves these things in such a way that he solves them very positively and to the satisfaction of this time in our patients, and with you in the judiciary or with us parties, youth, our youth, our youth. So actually that concentration of the process is, and the sensitivity of matter, or youth issues that arises, and I even forgot to say and know the Internet methods and all that, so can't judge this some 70-year-old, we're not generation, and here I am 62, I don't know enough all the things in that new era of technology that I'm no longer fully familiar with the information ability to follow that too. So the courts, therefore, must really be specialized and directed into all spheres that lead young people to certain problems that are causing them to appear in courts. I wanted to say that I welcome that your courts will actually be specialized. We can't have in every municipality and every city a specialised court for young people. And that's clear, because you don't have, so you're missing a pedagogal at school, you're missing psychologists not talking, you're not even in school, so at the Ministry of Education, you're simply missing our HNOS standards, there's no psychologists, you can't hire them in schools because they're not there. Or one psychologist works for six schools, he visits. That's what the minister said, fateful days. Now all I care about is what fateful days mean? Will this come from the Varazdin which is currently on the talks, or will from Brod come from Požeg, and from Varazdin to Koprivnica one day of the judgment council, and when they have two, three cases that day will be debate and work in Koprivnica? If that's the case, and we see what the number of cases is and that's what the colleague said, he likes to shorten the ODO, the municipal state attorney's office solves 50, 60% of the cases these others go to the Court of Youth. If this is so that the Varazdin Court of Youth comes once a week or in 15 days, I don't know depending on the need of that court in Koprivnica, to work in Koprivnica, then I don't know what I don't know, I don't see any reason for such a cruel speech and debate about it. The palace of justice in Koprivnica, I haven't seen it, I don't know, but if there is a palace, here you see some of our ministers love palaces, perhaps to give in to the Ministry of Environmental Protection palace in Koprivnica if not used. He loves it very much, palace. Therefore, it is easy to resolve the area owned by the state and the ministry agree eventually. We've got a bandage, so maybe the Justice Minister can do something about it. But to joke aside, I think all that is proposed in this legislative proposal is good and the HDSSB club is at least in the first reading, and we will hear objections to this legislative proposal, so if they are adequately explained, we will also accept the proposals of our colleagues in the assembly benches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94415	Stjepan Milinkovic, and now what do you have to say in your replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94416	Well, thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I don't have much, but I am obliged to contact my colleague Grubisic since he is so heartily defending his Slavonia and Baranja and now, in some way, to our palace of justice, which we are proud of, which is built according to standards, which is quality and which I meet all these rules and, as we have heard, are working and professional staffing in it. In that part, it would not be acceptable for me to say the Palace of Justice in Koprivnica, so let it be intended for something else. She's meant for it, she's made it, and I think she should stay that way and be available to the judiciary and a quality trial. There's only so much, I won't be long.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94417	Boro Grubisic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94418	Thank you very much. The military used to be military, and today they weren't. Today in them is... certain ministries or agencies, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I just wanted to not accidentally be told in Bosnia that they're illustrating, so they've lost to the importance of the Palace of Justice in Koprivnica, to give someone else, if there's room and a bathroom, for example, with a jacuzzi bath. So you don't have to complain about it. I wish we had a palace of justice in Slavonski Brod, so that would be great, rather than having a building that's 70 years old. And the county court couldn't work for long, long time in Slavonski Brod, knows the minister, because of the adaptation and reconstruction and the great money we invested, and again we have the same object that we have, but here's something better. Thank you very much for that, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94419	Minister Orsat Milenić. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94420	Thank you very much. So what you've opened up is a matter of fate days. So let's not look at it just through prism, through the look at juvenile trial, but that's something, that would be applied here and in any other case. It may not be a good example of Varazdin, Koprivnica because I said that cases could be taken there, but the president of a court in a particular area will put such a proposal and say I have the subject of being one working day or five working days a month. So there's no need for someone to sit there and make a salary, but he'll come, citizens who are called to court will solve their problem and come back. We are on our way, we already have several examples of this and we are thinking of spreading it and what our vision of the development of the judiciary in Croatia is partly this territorial and through the days of fate. We have a developed country in terms of geographical, unfortunately not everywhere as well developed in terms of economic and of course that sometimes can't mathematically, I can't afford to myself and I don't want to let myself say as a minister that one area won't have legal protection, that it will be difficult for him to travel because he has few objects, and maybe it's a poor area where people will be particularly affected. In that case, I think it's much more appropriate for the state to take it upon itself, not have to finance the building, not have to finance the whole meaning of the court's structure, but why not finance the journey of judges to, say, the building of the municipality, so our vision, so the local community has to give a hand in it and provide one space as a courtroom. If we have the cases to work five days a month, five days down there will be a judge, they'll get a fee, they'll get a bookie, they'll come back, the other 17 working days, or whatever else there is they'll be doing. The citizens have settled their legal question where they need to be, and that should be our vision. So we can solve the islands, so we can especially address these areas that are less developed and where people find it difficult to travel. It is not the same, you know Zaprešić within Zagreb and the Palace of Justice, I think it is the line of ZET. Or something down in Lica, we talked a lot about it or the island, etc. We can't look at it the same way. And mathematically, I can get out now, I don't need a court. Well, I don't think so, there are people down there, and if they find it hard to travel, let's send them a judge, not make them travel. So here it is, so it's going to be fateful days, we're going to affirm them, one of the things we're doing through all of this is just that, fateful days in all the branches of the trial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94421	We're moving on to an individual debate. A colleague of Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94422	Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the vice president who noticed so what else do you have to say for this contribution because I've said a lot. Mr. President of the Parliament expressed his surprise when I first reported for replication,...reporting on legal issues, it's not about agriculture. So I've given up on agriculture already because she's unfortunately dying so I can hardly say anything new, but I have here to say something about those who live in these rural areas, in these areas that she'll come into an even more unfavourable position and that's why I'm reporting here for word. And I've said a lot, but I want to repeat maybe that your... Mr. Minister, it's good to repeat more times that, you said that judicial reform, I think that this way was formulated, by the reform of the judiciary, is not going to travel parties but judges. I remember that, this proposed change is contrary to the above... because they are about to travel by parties, or parents and their children, and in the future further than they are now. A colleague, Schamper, said an example... of where he'd be. It's from my county, from... Eighty-eight kilometers. It's 100 kilometers sublevel. Of course, they'll have to know that it's a poorer population, that we know what they're like, but I want to say another moment that might also be forgotten. In this area Đurđevec is a village of Skaška, but it is well mentioned. Where they don't even respond, populated by the Roma population, they don't even respond, and it also requires costs increased for bringing, etc. .... It's good to have in mind the same thing. About this convention on the welfare of a child, we've said a lot about it. We also said about the Convention on Human Rights, so I wouldn't want to repeat myself about all these arguments, so higher costs, the right to jurisdiction, it's all said. And I liked that idea of yours, Mr. Minister, we're open to talking, you said here, you said it again. Of course we're having an open conversation, so I don't have much longer, to be brief, since I'm a lot in replicas, I want to come out very specifically with the proposal. It is very specific to keep this in writing, therefore, that Article 37, paragraph 2 is proposed. The Law on Juvenile Courts does not delete, but to delete from this paragraph the words "organised as a permanent service", i.e. that it is now - exceptionally from paragraph 1 of this article municipal courts in Gospić, Čakovec, Koprivnica, Požega, Virovitica, Zlataru will be established by the Youth Department consisting of the Youth Council and Juvenile Judges. It's very simple, in short terms, and the arguments are all the ones we talked about. The explanation is everything. So, quality, fast, efficient..., adequate space, specialization, good cooperation, technical equipment, all this stuff that your colleagues talked about, and I think it's very easy to solve. You said yourself it's specific, it's kind of more special. Maybe there's one more thing to warn you about. You know that since 1st February 2015 all these cases from... from the Court in Križevci have been applied to Bjelovar. Let's just say, pull one parallel, and now if this were to shrink here, you know what that means in the future, too, for the judiciary in Koprivnica-križevska, so somehow the disappearance of that criminal trial at this level. A very important question to be warned, and therefore, not to be further, I will be brief in this section. I mean, so respect this proposal of mine, and we're very pleased with the conversation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94423	My colleague, Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94424	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. The Honorable Minister with the Assistant. Dear colleagues and colleagues, on the trail of what Col. Milinkovic was saying, so I'm going to say the same thing. Therefore, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Juvenile Courts provides for the abolition of the Youth Department at municipal courts in Gospić, Čakovec, Koprivnica, Požega, Virovitica and Zlatar, so in areas where county courts are established as permanent services. According to the logic of the matter as we understand it, it also means the abolition of the Department of Youth of the Municipal State Attorney's Office in these cities, and when it comes specifically to the town of Čakovec where I come from, the cases of the Department of Youth of the Municipal Court in Čakovec and the Department of Youth of the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Čakovec would be taken over by the Municipal Court in Varazdin and the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Varazdin as bodies situated in the county court's headquarters. What I would like to emphasise is this, so the Međimurje County respects the need to streamline the judicial network, and then, within that, rationalise the juvenile branch of the trial, especially when considering this objective of rationalisation, which is the specialisation of judges working on juvenile cases, which I believe will certainly contribute to the quality of the trial. However, we think that, in this rationalisation process, we should certainly respect the specificities of certain areas. So in Međimurje County, we have indeed recently had an escalation of juvenile criminal behaviour, so the minister knows it well, and this is the primary reason why Međimurje County does not support this proposal to amend and supplement the law. So with this primary argument there are some more I'd say purely technical arguments. So the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Čakovec is located in spaces that, with their quality and all other characteristics, meet the required criteria for working with minors while, for example, the area of the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Varazdin is filled, so it is completely complete and there is no possibility of accepting practically any person from the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Čakovec. And to say just a few more figures, so the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Čakovec in 2013 had in the paper applications against a total of 1,137 persons, of which 424 persons or 36% of all applications concerned the conduct of state attorneys under the Youth Court Act, with 78 adult persons reported for child-related actions at the expense of 149 young minors and 258 minors. Now, in 2014 to 17.10, the lawyer's office received a total of 356 people from the above mentioned issue of youth issues. In these cases, five deputies and one senior expert counselor are currently in charge. So there really is a teamwork, there are spaces, and I'm saying on the other hand we've been having huge problems in recent months about youth crime, and I'm not going to be more specific. Here is our request that I make here to consider this proposal a little more, to respect these specificities and to leave the Court of Youth in Chakovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94425	Minister Orsat Milenic, final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94426	So, of course, I thank you for all the comments that have been made so far and for those that will be in the future. We're aware we were talking about Koprivnica, there were other places being spoken, you've now opened the question of Čakovec, it's exactly 73% increase compared to 2012, numbers are still growing and that's something I said that this proposal is what we think it should be, but that we're ready to talk and listen to the debate in each of his segments and drag out in another reading with some things. What we're thinking about and now we're thinking about and we're talking about is that if we went to Čakovec, so the same thing applies to most of these places so that we can keep the Juvenile Department in... that solves 60% in Čakovec, and those 40% that remain that's 14km then they could get rid of it in Varazdin. Of course there should also be taken care of everywhere and about the space because these things that we say here are what they should be, but space isn't the same everywhere. So somewhere we're talking... about Gospić, Gospić has a great space but there are no objects and it's here we're going to the Varazdin let's say where the State's Attorney's office very poorly stands with space, the court when we manage to perform the upgrade will be better, but now there's also not enough space. There wouldn't be an increase in numbers, but I'm talking about some sort of trend. So we'll consider each other. So that kind of minimum is going to be the ODO's staying, and that's what we think we can address most of the problems if we can't think about this second one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94427	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Juvenile Courts, first reading, P.Z. No. 732, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Juvenile Courts is adopted. - any objections, suggestions and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please join the vote. I find that with 95 votes in favour and 2 abstentions, the proposal is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94430	Thank you very much. Here's what I'm going to say in the introduction, later on because of some obligations, so the deputy will take over. The main reason for the amendment is to comply with the new Directive relating to the European Protection Order. So what's this about? It is about the possibility of applying safeguards adopted in one country in another EU country. They are primarily victims of criminal acts, to simplify, if someone has received a restraining order in Germany, then this can be done in Croatia or vice versa. So far it's not, so the directive is there, we need to implement, we need to change things. So that's the primary reason. Secondly, you'll see in the amendments some things are addressed, they're, I'd say primarily conditional on the fact that when the original law was done, I think in 2010 that it was either '11. Doesn't matter, he was made on the assumption that Croatia would enter the Schengen Information System by entering the EU, so into SIS and that the procedures would take place within this information system. However, we are not in that system, and therefore ours, we continue to be one of the countries that, by fulfilling our obligations, are both on the top and on the top of the European Union, therefore, we do not mind meeting our obligations, but the procedure is something different, so we are changing things here and for that. We also have, say, the Ministry of Justice becoming the central authority to take decisions by Member States on fines that have not been done so far. But if this were going to go to, say, all the misdemeanors, to the courts, it would simply burden them too much, nothing gets through it, simpler that because it's just fines. We are changing certain provisions in relation to some of the things that have been shown in practice from how to suspend a domestic arrest warrant, so the one that has been issued by our body has not been the intended items so far. I told the police and the state's attorney's office how it works. What is important is we regulate the situation where surrender has not been carried out within 10 days of the power of the solution of surrender for any organisational or technical reasons. It happened to us that we had to let this person go, and now the question of how to proceed has been raised. So that's what we're also doing here. We edit instruments, so mutual recognition of digestive measures, here's some kind of, these are the highlights of what's changing. It is a law that is living law, we will actually see only now, since December of its actual achievement in practice, I don't think in Croatia practice because here this is an interesting probably data, so the Court of Luxemborg becomes responsible for a framework decision so for applying this December of this year, so for that third pillar it becomes competent. So it is realistic that some items from Croatia will end up. A number of cases have already been announced from some other countries, so now this highest court of the European Union will have an impact on how things will be implemented. Therefore, it will allow for the possibility to condition certain further changes, harmonisations but then, when the time comes. So now this is primarily because of the directive and this other technical stuff. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94431	Thank you very much, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of SDP representative club colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94432	Thank you, Madam Vice President, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will support this bill, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union. Especially since Croatia and even before it was a member of the European Union and even before its path towards the European Union has concluded a whole series of bilateral ones, before that contract precisely on judicial co-operation with the intensities that neighbouring countries and even those far away could not be a place of refuge for those convicted in one country. Of course, since we are a Member State of the European Union, our obligations are in line with the commitments made by the Treaty of Accession to the European Union. And it is also these amendments to the law that follow these obligations to implement, in this existing law, the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Protection Order. So that's something that we haven't had so far, and that's all those measures that are decided on, with a verdict or during the procedure, just the same when we act as a country that has to do it or one that asks for such a warrant with regard to those measures from other Member States. So as for this and what the minister has already said, mostly what measures they are, it is mostly those measures that are known and in our national law that are a ban, most often a ban on contacting witnesses and approaching victims. It is a pity that such measures cannot also be imposed by the International Criminal Court for a long time. Even what we recently discussed would certainly not be necessary for such discussions. As the minister stressed in this short time, Croatia in the European Union has therefore been working together in this judicial co-operation above the average, which is certainly commendable. Perhaps a small curiosity of this country that we would expect the strongest countries, which we would expect to be the leader in such cooperation, are not, most of all, other countries. So I wouldn't want to draw a conclusion here that exactly the size of the country allows some country to be more comfortable and non-chalant towards these obligations. Of course, there is a more favourable position for the protection of their own citizens and their country's right to appear primarily as a country that will judge their citizens, especially when they find themselves on their territory because they have previously joined this obligation, so it is likely and thus manifests themselves in such a respect of the degree of cooperation of certain countries. However, what I would particularly like to point out is that such a proposal has no dispute, only this particular ministry here emphasises that a whole series of concerns that have been shown, but which have not been detected by the executive authority, but in cooperation with the judicial authorities are being clarified, and in this context it is also regulated to suspend the procedure for the execution of the European arrest warrant, i.e. to put out of force a European arrest warrant due to an limitation or in case of circumstances that no longer require it. That is exactly what Mr. Minister emphasized, as well as some other minor changes that only explain the current state of affairs, which has been first observed by our fateful authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94433	Thank you. Representatives of the DC, New Wave, Reformist and HNS club are not present, so they lose the right to debate on this point. On behalf of the HDZ representative's club, a colleague named Vladimir Seks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94434	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It is indeed a special pleasure to take part in this debate in front of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 4 MPs and 2 MPs and me as seventh and three pardoned Vice Presidents, three. It is seemingly a proposal for a law which represents the implementation of the European Parliament's Directive on the European Arrest Order for Protection which introduces a new form of judicial cooperation in order to apply safeguards in favour of victims or potential victims of criminal offences. However... a little back in the near past. The amendments to this law, which were passed three days before Croatia's accession to the European Union, led to Croatia's amendments to the law put on a pillar of shame, that Croatia's credibility was seriously lost because the purpose of amending and supplementing this law three days before Croatia's accession to the European Union led to a strong conviction in the European Union that Croatia is seeking to obstruct the application of the European arrest warrant to people covered by this European arrest warrant in known cases Perkovic and Mustac. Croatia was under severe criticism too, the government had to propose to amend the law and this change led to the European arrest warrant being implemented in relation to these two cases. There was then a situation by passing this law that a strong belief was created in both Croatia and Europe that Croatia shows, not as a state but that the judicial authorities of Croatia simply show that they are not prepared to prosecute the crimes they have committed during the former communist system. But that's the time behind us, that law has changed and around the European arrest warrant is now a very clear legal situation. It is being implemented, Croatia now fulfils its obligations towards which, as a member of the European Union, it has accepted when it enters the European Union. However, this law, which apparently represents just saying the implementation of a directive, a certain directive, shows something that should at least be clarified. For example, in Article 10 of the Law, the wording in Article 17(2) is added: The body issued by the European arrest warrant must immediately put it out of force when the requested person is handed over, which in itself is understandable. And now there is, and when there is a staunch prosecution or execution of penalties and other reasons why the European arrest warrant is no longer needed. Mr. Minister, Madam Deputy Minister, you would do well to explain a little bit what this paragraph 3 means about putting above the power of the European arrest warrant when an outdated prosecution or execution of a sentence takes place where antiquity, under which law, under the relevant law of the country from which a citizen is required to be handed over to a arrest warrant or a country which issued an arrest warrant. And what this principle means: "the other reasons why the European arrest warrant is no longer needed". Also in Article 18 of the amendment and supplementation of this law, the principle reads: "Beyond Article 24b. the title and Article 24c are added. which reads: Terminate the procedure for the execution of the European arrest warrant. Article 24c The court shall suspend the procedure for the execution of the European arrest warrant if the requested person is no longer in the territory of the Republic of Croatia or if the issuing state has put an off-limits European arrest warrant." It is clear again that the court will suspend the procedure for the execution of the European arrest warrant if the issuing state has put it out of force. But in what context does this sentence mean that the court will suspend the procedure for the execution of the European arrest warrant if the requested person is no longer in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And finally, I think the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the bill because it is important to implement EU directives in our judicial system. But given that the Republic of Croatia is a member of the EU and that our judicial system is part of the EU justice system, the effects of the current application of this law should be analysed in a way that presents a full report on cooperation with EU Member States. So, we should get data on how many demands and what types are received, how many and how is it solved, how many demands have we set, how have our demands been solved? And if we get such a single report with everything, with all this cooperation structure with the EU Member States on the application of this law, one full assessment of how the whole system works and where improvement needs to be carried out. We therefore plead that the Ministry of Justice shall make such a report with all these components in order to determine how the system of the European Arrest Warrant, i.e. the application of this Law on judicial cooperation on criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union, and I would like to ask you first to clarify these two principles relating to these two articles in the draft law. Otherwise, we will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94435	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94436	Dear fellow Shakespeare, you reminded me of a time to say it never happened again. The Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU members has also been discussed for the first time before EU entry, if you remember in the afternoon. It came on the agenda all of a sudden. There were very few of us in the Parliament, and we reacted. I think the HDZ Club is responding and we are here in the middle wondering why such an important thing is being done at an inappropriate time, although they always assure us that every time is appropriate for discussion. Changes three days before joining the EU and this unnecessary change and dispute with the EU several months of fighting under quotes, the pressures coming from Europe certainly agree with you that they did not, did not do good to Croatia, that Croatia has suffered great damage because we have become an unworthy country that wanted to trick Europe into something that was not agreed with Europe before the celebration itself. And despite these efforts by the government to try to baptize that mistake of yours, unfortunately no one ever came to the Parliament and apologized and said sorry we were wrong, it was just like you said. So I say it didn't happen again, but that's why we need to be reminded to learn from our own mistakes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94437	Comrade Shakespeare, will you answer? No, I don't. Thank you. Deputy Justice Minister, do you want the final word? Sandra Artuković-Kunšt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94438	Thank you very much. Dear MPs and respected MPs, here is a brief answer to these two specific questions asked by the respected representative, Mr. Seks. Therefore, the question first referred to the Appendix or paragraph 3 in Article 17. We have complemented this provision in a way that the body issued by the European arrest warrant is obliged to put it out of force immediately if circumstances arise, so if the requested person is turned over if antiquity occurs. Or another reason when the arrest warrant is no longer required. It is precisely this provision that has been added to the search for practice, i.e. to seek out those who issue orders. You asked if it was related to orders issued in the Republic of Croatia? Well, of course, yeah. Our sovereignty extends to our territory, we cannot influence in any other way than our conduct, or our publication. And this provision applies to Croatian authorities issuing a European arrest warrant. The second question concerned the execution of the European arrest warrant itself, so this is the procedure when we carry out the warrant that we have received and if the person no longer exists on our territory exactly related to what I have previously explained we do not have jurisdiction and sovereignty in other territories if the person has left the territory of the Republic of Croatia. We then no longer have a European arrest warrant as a Republic of Croatia. And she also asked for this to be arranged, so that for our country, such a demand for the execution of a European arrest warrant should be put out of force. So, in that sense, we're just looking for the practice of these two provisions and we've complemented them. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94439	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU Member States, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 730. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: - a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU Member States will be adopted - all objections, proposals and opinions will be sent to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law. Please, let's vote. I find that a unanimous conclusion has been reached on the adoption of the P.Z.E. law. No. 730.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94442	Thank you very much. The law on a national preventive mechanism for preventing torture and other cruel, inhuman or humiliating proceedings or punishment was adopted in January 2011 and they established a national preventive mechanism. And thus, a commitment has been made under the Faculty Protocol with the Convention against Torture and other cruel, inhuman or humiliating proceedings or punishments. The procedures of the national preventive mechanism in the Republic of Croatia shall be carried out by the Advocate General and we now have a prescribed situation that two representatives of the Associations registered to carry out activities in the field of protection of human rights and two representatives of the academic community shall participate with the Ombudsman. We propose amendments with the aim of increasing efficiency by enabling a greater number of tours of the places where persons are located or where they could be found persons deprived of liberty and for the more active participation of organisations registered to carry out activities in the field of protection of human rights. This is also proposed for the active involvement of independent experts and for the involvement of special Ombudsmans in the performance of the tasks of the national preventive mechanism. These amendments are proposed on the Ombudsman's initiative and are the result of the practical application of the national preventive mechanism during this previous three-year period. The amendments we propose to increase the number of tours concern regular tours of the place where persons deprived of liberty are the main purpose of the university protocol and are one of the key issues in accordance with the Law on the National Prevention Mechanism. Since the start of the national preventive mechanism, 19 tours have been carried out by the end of 2013. For example, 46 were completed in Slovenia. So we can conclude that in that part we were not too effective. We have analyzed the reasons for a small number of tours, the reasons are that tours can only be carried out if representatives of the academic community and associations participate, and if they are carried out only by the Ombudsman they are not considered tours in accordance with the law. And there is also a lack of financial resources to compensate for the exit of representatives of associations and the academic community. The legislation of most of the countries that are being implemented by the preventive national mechanism is within the jurisdiction of the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman, but in most countries they do not contain provisions that would make it impossible for the Advocate to carry out the tasks of the national preventive mechanism on his own, unlike our law, where we are seeking the participation of the academic community and associations. And we therefore propose to the proposed amendments that therefore the tour can be carried out as necessary with the participation of associations or academic community but therefore that it can be essentially carried out by the Ombudsman herself. The proposed amendments to Article 2 allow more active participation of more organisations registered to carry out activities in the field of protection of human rights and the inclusion of more independent experts, and thus contributes to the effectiveness of the activities of the national preventive mechanism and thus the protection of persons deprived of liberty. We propose that the Advocate General shall, through a public call, choose an association or association with which he will conclude a cooperation agreement, thus enabling a much wider and more quality cooperation with associations in the performance of the national preventive mechanism. It is also part of the amendments to the co-operation with the other defences in our country, so the special defenders, in accordance with their responsibilities, participate in the protection of special categories of vulnerable persons. We, i.e. on the basis of the cooperation that has been established with each other, have concluded an agreement between institutional cooperation, and since this agreement exists on the basis of it, the proposed amendment will allow for the participation of and special defenders, and we are confident that this will contribute to strengthening the protection of human rights of all categories of persons deprived of liberty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94443	Thank you very much. It's a replica of Vladimir Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94444	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I don't know if I understand you correctly, ma'am, whether to elect representatives of the academic community and the Human Rights Association that will be within this framework protection mechanism at the appeal's request. Did I correctly understand whether the Ombudsman would give, call an invitation to tender, and then choose, on the basis of it, which human rights associations or representatives of the academic community will be in monitoring in the protection mechanism. I'd like you to clarify that a little bit more.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94445	Reply to the replica Sandra Artuković-Kunšt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94446	Thank you very much. I can only point out the provision of Article 7(4), so that the Advocate General will, no later than one month from the date of entry into force of the Regulation referred to in paragraph 2, make a public call for the selection of associations registered to carry out activities in the field of protection of human rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94447	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94448	Thank you very much. Dear Deputy Minister, you are in the draft law in the introductory section, paragraph 3 is said "Assessments from these necessary means to implement the law." In order to implement this law, it is not necessary to provide additional resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. The purpose of law-making is, here is only one point of change proposed, the amendments proposed to increase the number of tours. How is it possible to have more activity without additional resources, how is it possible that any changes to the law can be without financial effects or by existing spending what you should not or if you increase visits and engage new independent experts, whether or not holders already on the state budget, to the Advocate or Advocate as possible without additional funding from the state budget? It's just mathematically and economically not possible. However, it is surprising that any proposal for a new law of ease of copying referred to in paragraph 3 does not require additional resources for the implementation of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94449	Reply to the replica Sandra Artuković-Kunšt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94450	Thank you very much. It's mathematically clear and understandable. Therefore, under the existing 2011 law, an obligation was introduced to participate representatives of the academic community and representatives of tour associations. People who have thus participated in tours have the right to compensation. We have proposed an amendment in such a way that it is not necessarily their mandatory participation because we have established in parallel law with other countries that other countries have done so. The Croatian Ombudsman, of course, has her own income and should not receive a special fee on this side, she can go on her own, if necessary, and when she considers it necessary to engage and determine that the associations or representatives of the academic community are involved and that this will result in savings, as there will be more frequent visits to go out and implement the national preventive mechanism and it will not be necessary to engage and pay for two representatives of the academic community and associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94451	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Comrade Maric, don't come from the club. They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS club, he was to speak to counterpart Boris Blazekovic, not present, and the club loses the right to debate on this point. On behalf of the SDP representative club, counterpart Melita Mulic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94452	I would like to thank the Vice President, the esteemed deputy minister, colleague and colleague. We think this bill is good to go to first reading. He also raised some questions, and even on the trail of what his colleague Maric said and on the parent board, it was the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, but I understood and we at the SDP club realized that this would be much more practical because the new proposal for amending and supplementing the law was just more flexible and intense than it was before. Because in the current way, it was necessary to include a minimum of 5 persons in order to make such a visit to be carried out at all by the Ombudsman, or by her deputy, to whom it was in power, in the number of these tours that need to be fulfilled precisely in accordance with the Convention against Torture and other cruel inhuman or humiliating proceedings or punishments. It should also be said that the attorney general's office so far had quite a minimum amount of funds allocated to it, so it was about 40 thousand kuna and it was only 10 thousand kunas for doing the work of the national preventive mechanism, and as much as I read this explanation that came in the explanation of the attorney general's office, so that those who acted in accordance with the relevant rule had the right to compensation. And we believe that it is very good that this article that regulates this area is changed in such a way that representatives of independent experts or academic communities are called if necessary, and that it also opens and expands the spectrum of associations, so a much greater number of activists and human rights activists, of course, who are registered, will be able to be included and, if necessary, with them, the Office of the Public Advocates shall conclude a contract. I also feel that it is very good to open one paragraph, namely this Article 1 of the Law, the possibility of cooperation with other attorneys because, for example, the Ombudsman's institution for persons with disabilities, it also conducts the supervision and tour of patients treated in psychiatric institutions, and I would also simply ask for the interpretation of the Deputy Minister for Article 3, which is related to persons deprived of liberty. So, since he is regulated here very extensively, the question arises whether we also consider psychiatric institutions because, as I recall from the Report, the Office of the Public Attorney's Office has often been to psychiatric institutions, and I think that, in accordance with the Law on Persons with Mental Disabilities, the Ombudsman's Office can also carry out these visits for Persons with Disabilities. Of course, there are all these repercusions of cash, therefore, and given the draft budget that is under way and the possible amendments that will be and... so you would actually know whether this applies, this article of the law on expanding cooperation. I think that the laws in general, that our goal is to make them more enforceable, let's say, and that these changes and they will provide us with that because I don't think it was enough for us in the Republic to have an average, although the law only takes place for a year and a half of 13 tours, and when we look closer and wider in the region, so whether it's the EU Member States or those outside the EU, it turns out that we are doing it in Croatia two or three times less than others. So, although... we think that the law will not require additional funding but that management means that it will be more efficient, more intense and flexible, the SDP club will support this bill in its first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94453	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94454	My colleague Mulić, I was just about to say that when you said that these changes would be re-percussed on money and then you finished the debate that the bill did not need to provide new additional funds. So what are these repercussions, and to remain neutral? And at the beginning of the debate, you said that they had insufficient resources... for the attorney general, that only 10 thousand kunas for prevention, and if they're forced now, there's a larger number of tours. Well, that's all it takes to raise her additional funding from the state budget. And it's impossible, it's impossible, that she doesn't understand the deputy mathematics I can't help her, but it's impossible to apply this law and it works without being up to an increase in costs, despite what they're eliminating, will increase the costs that nothing... the attorneys, and she already has limited costs. He's got a set of expenses. This application should then be provided for in the paragraph of the increase in the public defender's expenditure. For how long? To predict, but it can't be... What's he going to do with his car and he's not going to count the logs and he's not going to count that day? During her vacation, will she go on her own expense? Come on, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94455	Melita Mulic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94456	Comrade Maric, let me explain. So it's in the description of the attorney general's affairs and she's got deputies or deputies of which one's just in charge of doing these jobs. What was the problem so far was that there were four more people who needed to be paid from the academic community and associations to go to the field. Now it will be as necessary and will be equally regulated by the Regulation. So, in this sense, there is no increase in costs, and what I have referred to is the question and what I said may cause repercussions, but for other attorneys, it is specific for the Attorney General's Office for Persons with Disabilities because, in fact, perhaps with its means, we can do part of it if, and what will depend on the interpretation of one article, this article is, therefore, about persons deprived of liberty and whether it involves psychiatric institutions or not is very broadly extensive. So, I personally think it leaves room for, I won't say savings, but coverage with other points of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94457	Final word, Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković-Kunšt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94458	Thank you very much. Well, here's just for a little while. Therefore, the way in which the Ombudsman will cooperate with special lawyers is the matter of their agreement under their jurisdiction and this agreement has already created a platform for such an arrangement, of course that we, in Article 3 amending Article 4, have provided for the implementation of the national preventive mechanism for all persons who are either incarcerated or detained. This, of course, applies especially to persons with mental disorders and is related to the amendment of the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation, so to the fullest extent possible, we try to enable the national implementing mechanism to be implemented as it is imagined. And I will repeat if the matter of the budget and the special defenders, the attorney general or the work they are doing has just the protection of fundamental human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-28-0.u94459	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. That would be the conclusion of today's session. We'll continue on Tuesday, December 2nd at 9.30 p.m. First we will vote on the debated points, and below we will continue with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Disputes. Thank you very much. Goodbye. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on a national mechanism for preventing torture and other cruel, inhuman or humiliating proceedings or punishment, first reading, P.Z. No. 717. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: - a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on a national mechanism for preventing torture and other cruel inhuman or humiliating proceedings and penalties is adopted. - any objections, suggestions and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that a unanimous conclusion has been reached on the adoption of the P.Z. Act. No. 717 with 95 votes in.
