ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87121	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We're going back to work. We will discuss: - Proposal for a Law on the COMMASSATION of Agricultural Land, first reading, P.Z.BR. 687. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Minister of Agriculture Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87122	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues of parliamentary representatives and representatives in the Republic of Croatia are in effect the Law on Cooperation, which was adopted in 1979 and has not changed since 1987. By 1991, about 822,704 hectares of agricultural land in the area of 11 units of the regional self-government had been co-massed, according to state geodetic data. With the new territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia, the application of this old law has been virtually disabled and we have almost 24 years of non-commission procedures. In view of the above, it is not a fact that small and depreciated holdings of agricultural land which do not provide satisfactory conditions for successful and profitable agricultural production prevail in the Republic of Croatia. It has joined the creation of a new law on the accumulation of agricultural land. The commission is a set of administrative and technical procedures that bring together small and ground areas of agricultural land into the larger, the path, the channel networks, and the arrangements for the ownership and other real legal relations on land in order to aggregate properties and cadastrian particles into the larger and more correctly for their more economic exploitation, to create more favourable conditions for the development of agricultural production in order to establish and build agricultural roads, waterways for milliorizations, and to perform and other work on the land for the purpose of agriculture. The commission shall be carried out on the basis of a multiannual programme adopted by the Croatian Parliament for a period of 5 years and an annual programme adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The programmes shall be organised in the first row of the areas in which the work will be carried out, the sources of funding for the implementation of the membership and the deadlines for the implementation of the programme itself. The Programmes shall be developed by the Agricultural Land Agency on the basis of expert analyses on the implementation of the Cooperation Procedure. In accordance with the programmes of the Agricultural Land Agency, the Agency shall develop ideacommission projects for certain cadastrian municipalities for which a comcommissionation procedure is initiated. Prior to the launch of the comcommissioning process, the agencies shall convene a meeting of landowners to get acquainted with the purpose and conditions under which the commission is intended. Decisions on the launch of the proceedings shall be adopted by the Agency in the previous agreement of the Ministry of Agriculture. After the publication of a final decision on the launch of a comcommissioning procedure with the units of local self-government and the unit of the regional self-government, it shall conclude a contract establishing mutual rights and obligations for the implementation of the commission and the financing of the costs of the Commission itself. Discommunication bodies are the County Commission appointed by the representative body of the county on a proposal from the Ministry of Justice. The State Cooperation Commission which decides on complaints against the resolution of the County Cooperation Commissions appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Ministry of Justice. The Committee of Co-operation Participants appointed by the County Compassionate Commission on the proposal of the Mayor or of the Municipal Commissioners. The special commission that determines the real situation is discussing the relations created by self-performing land, which is referred to as the County Compassionation Commission. And the last body of the Land Assessment Committee appointed by the Agricultural Land Agency. The implementation of expert geodetics, water-building works and construction of other buildings shall be carried out on the basis of contracts concluded by the Agency with authorised performers after a public tender, i.e. units of local self-government or units of the regional administration if they bear the costs of carrying out works. After the conclusion of the contract, the procedure establishing the real situation, discussing the relations created by self-performing land, carrying out land assessment, drawing up a statement of land on pre-composition conditions, and drawing up a transparent plan of location routes and channel networks. The County Commission shall publish a statement of land on the pre-composition situation and a review plan of the position of the road and channel network on public insight for 15 days and shall decide on the complaints submitted. The County Cooperation Commission shall determine the specific oral discussion of participants and others in order to determine the area and estimated value of land to be provided for the general needs and common needs of the settlement, i.e. the participants of the commission and the areas where new land will be allocated to the participants in order to establish the principle for the establishment of new land communities after which the expert geodetic business operator shall draw up a proposal for the division of the commercial gromads. Following this, oral debate is held on the land-dwelling that is being called upon by all members of the commission and other parties participating in the comcommissioning process. On the basis of the results of the oral debate, the performer of expert geodetics is developing new cadastar plans, drawing up a statement of land on the post-commission situation, and then limiting the distributed particles on the ground. The County Commission shall publish a statement of land on the state of play after the commission with a transparent plan of the allocated particles on public insight for 15 days and shall decide on the complaints submitted. The geodetic technical works performer shall be required within 6 months of the conclusion of the objections to build a technical elaborate in order to make a solution to the membership. Within 60 days of the expiry of the time limit for the production of technical elaborates published on public insight for 15 days, the County Commission shall adopt a decision on the membership of a Member State within 60 days of the expiry of the deadline for the production of technical embodies. The solution takes place in a comcommissioning process, carried out by the County Commissing Commission. An appeal may be made against a solution on the parting within 15 days of the date of delivery of the excerpts on the solution to the compromise. The transfer of... land owned is made on the basis of the written conclusion of the County Commission on the introduction of the participants in the property. The land allocated in the comcommissioning process shall not be subject to real estate tax. A fine has been established for the violation of the procedures for the commissioning, the prevention of the introduction of participants in the ownership of the land assigned to them, one example and the proposed resolution of the started and unfinished proceedings before the entry into force of this law. According to the first indicators, the reduction should cover around 280 thousand hectares of agricultural land in the area of the Republic of Croatia, all of which need to be secured by around 840 million kuna. Priority should be given to about 90,000 hectares in the first 6-year period for the period '15-20. Since the cost of a commercial operation is estimated at around 3000 kuna per hectare, for the implementation of the priority plan of the commission or the first plan that this High House will bring for the first 5 years, total costs are estimated at 270 million kuna, i.e. an average annual amount of around 45 million kuna. The funds needed to implement the multiannual and annual programmes shall be provided in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia, the budget of the units of local and regional self-government and EU funds through the rural development programme where we have designed one measure to finance cohesion, grant and other funds of interested and legal natural persons. Therefore, it should be noted that the owners and owners of the agricultural land will not bear the costs of the agricultural land-composing process. The costs of the commercial operations themselves will be provided from two basic sources, such as the European Fund for Rural Development, which, as I said in the draft Rural Development Programme, provides support to support investments in infrastructure related to the development, modernisation and adaptation of agriculture and forestry, to support units of local and regional self-government in implementing measures of agricultural land storage amounting to up to a maximum of 45 million kuna per year, i.e. 270 million kuna for the 5-year period. Also in the state budget at the position of the Agricultural Land Agency where 10-12 million kunas are planned for multi-annual work, but also for the implementation of the comcommissioning process itself, are planned for the next period. Finally, the implementation of the proposed law will allow for the rounding of land and cadastrian particles of agricultural land, the editing of the road and the channel network and the setting up of ownership and other real-law relations on land for its more economical use and the creation of more favourable conditions for the development of agricultural production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87123	I thank the minister. We have a single replica reported. Dear Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87124	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, unfortunately, you continue to practice badly from the government, which is that you do not adhere to the Fiscal Responsibility Act. The fiscal liability law accurately indicates what the legislator should do. You here for an extremely important topic made some kind of approximation, nothing certain, you re-scheduled the costs to local self-government units. You can't impose new obligations on local self-government units unless you lower their incomes. The second thing, a sentence that has begun to be repeated in all the proposals of this Government's legislation, will be provided in the European Funds. I mean, that's funny. Well, you know how you can get funds from the European Funds. And so, you say that you're going to provide funds, that from the resources of the local self-government units, it's simply ridiculous. And the other thing, and even if it's all true, you can't operationally bring it to work in 2015. You cannot make local self-government units after you take the funds from them by amending the Income Tax Act, you cannot impose a new obligation on them, and the question is when you can withdraw funds from the European Funds and even if they are approved for this. So this is an alibi, because simply because of the ignorance of what is going to be done, these arguments are being written. The second thing, if you're doing a law like this, then you've also had to make an assessment of what it means financially for both the state budget and the budget of the units of local self-government. That's what the fiscal responsibility bill says you raised your hand for at the government meeting, and it was adopted by this House of Commons.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87125	The replica matches Minister Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87126	With all due respect, my colleague Schuker, I will once again repeat the rural development programme '14-20, the most important strategic document or one of the most important strategic documents related to the Ministry of Agriculture with 16 measures. One measure is which I have also read in full name and for which the amount is secured, the possibility of using 45 million kuna annually is programmed and will be able to be used for this measure. I would actually like to have used the... pre-accession funds in a much larger amount and practiced, the way we prepare projects and withdraw. Not only is this measure and measure 7 intended for local self-government units and in constant contact with the mayors and mayors, I am actually appealing to the preparation of projects. This is the thing, this is the law, this is one procedure that will be implemented in cooperation with the Agency for Agricultural Land, with units of local and regional self-government, and I am sure that we will, in fact, withdraw to this extent all the resources for the jobs that will be planned and the annual plans for the commission, but also the five-year plan that will adopt this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87127	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleagues Grubisic and Cain reported. There's not one, the club loses the right to discuss this subject. On behalf of the Club of Representatives Linic and Hodzic, the respected Slavko Linic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87128	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I say immediately that we will support the bill in the first reading, but I think there are a lot of shortcomings, so I will try to indicate what we think should be corrected in the second reading. First of all, it would be good to point out that there are weaknesses in the primary food production and something more to say about it, and then we will see that one of the great weaknesses is the delicacy of the property, and the depletion of the property is solved by the Law on COMMASSATION. Then we wonder if it's possible that we haven't solved this problem for 27 years. The last law or amendment of the law in '87, and otherwise the law itself was created in '79. So the basic problem of primary production has not been solved for the full 24 years of Croatian independence. At the same time in Croatia we resolved the issue of ownership, at the same time we established a territorial structure in the Republic of Croatia, but what is also important incentives we gave in agriculture. All of this worked 24 years in Croatia, and one of the biggest problems, which is the rounding we haven't solved, which means that we can really argue that the incentive policy and it wasn't quality-oriented for a simple reason, because we've provided the money for mechanization that's become too expensive because it's uneconomically spent, and we have too much cost per product unit, and on the other hand we have the biggest problem of the non-competitive price of domestic production, and that's why we have too much imports and we have strong, strong imports competition. So when we have such a strong competition of imports then again we raise incentives per hectare to manage to maintain production on the ground. It's just a failure in the incentive policy, we haven't solved the fundamental problem. Now, here we see what a lack of law is, well, the lack of law is that after 24 years, we're now predicting the new 18, 19 years in order to solve the estimated amount of land that should be entered into the process of cohesion. It's simply unacceptable that we won't solve 280 thousand acres in the next 18 years. Why? Because only 90 grand will be dealt with for six years, and then we can figure out three times as many that it's a new 20 years. So we're wondering if it's possible when we have far more landscaped land books, when we have computers, when we have a huge number of employees, when we have an institution like the Agriculture Agency that we're legally predicting an unacceptablely long period of time. Because if it's such a long time, we'll be spending the incentives again on subsidizing our uncompetitive primary production. And that is why I also expect in the second reading to understand the deadlines, the increased commitment of all and that we simply invest as much money as possible in the process of co-communication, and all for reasons to round up visits and finally have more economic production and, on the other hand, more competitive prices and stop imports. Therefore, the basic objection when we talk about this law is unsustainably long deadlines for the implementation of the entire process of membership. I also don't want to get into those procedural deadlines, but it's unacceptable that the cadastar and the competent courts have been spending a year. I think try to explain to me what we want to do, encourage further ineffectiveness of the body of the state administration and the judiciary, a year to complete the process in books. Well, that's simple, so that operating deadline is unacceptable. So we're already giving ourselves a chance. I ask myself, is it really an respect for inefficiency or vice versa, to continue to encourage small property, small landowners, and we are essentially covering our incompetence? So I suggest that the processes that we've predicted, too, we cut deadlines because I think that's possible. We are also witnessing and I believe that we can all agree that we have a slightly larger number of public service employees, state bodies. Therefore, it needs additional funding for the Agriculture Agency to do the job because it will employ 15 new employees for me is not acceptable. I simply believe that within the agency, a part of the people can be redistributed to these jobs and that they do not need additional resources for the business of the agency itself and that we simply try to understand that in this law we must also talk about the rationality of public services and that we assess that no new employment or additional funds are needed in that part. Now let's go to the expense. That's where I really agree with my colleague Shucker when we talk about local self-government units. Well, for the past month, we've been talking about a new tax all the time, or I'd say redistribution of income taxes where cities, municipalities, counties will take 2.5 billion at least. Let's be honest, I don't believe we can find compensation measures, I don't. So tax-deprived funds and at the same time impose unnecessary costs on local self-government units. I really don't think it's necessary to burden local self-government units and regional or regional administrations to reparticate materially, financially in this because it's easy to find funds. Just delete the agency's cost, and you'll see that we've already cut a significant part of that cost and that we don't really need to transfer the burden because we're going to re-establish animosity on the one hand when we're talking about tax laws, we're taking units of regional, regional self-government, and on the other hand we're imposing new obligations on them. I think that simply the promoter should give up on that part, should insist on the active role of units of local and regional self-government in the process of cohesion but should not be dealt with financially. And now we're going to one of the let's do some flashing topics that we should think about that might not concern the law itself. What's the problem with depriving the property? It is evident that the problem of earning possessions is the Law on Inheritance and, on the other hand, the disappearance of agricultural cooperatives. It's two basic problems that we've got our possessions cut out. I doubt that, after very clear definitions in the Law of Property and other material rights, we can change the Law of Inheritance when it comes to agriculture. Which means, let's be honest, and tomorrow we'll have a day-long simmering in every succession process. Now we're wondering what the solutions are, so if we can't change the law on inheritance, if we're afraid that we're going to have a very hard time learning again on some collective system like cooperatives that can help us not get a split, that tomorrow we don't share what we've combined in the ownership division. And then you come to me that these are tax laws. Because the biggest problem with fragmentation is that no one is processing the country, which is one of the fundamental differences that 50% of Croatian agricultural land is not processed and is essential to sanction any irresponsible ownership management. Because there is no doubt that anyone who is not willing to work on the work he has received from his inheritance will leave it to those who want to do it because that tax must make him do it. So we have a series of legal solutions that could really try to solve the new ones. And it is evident that we need to understand that in the Law of Inheritance and other real rights it clearly states that property is the right but property and is bound. The Ministry of Agriculture should therefore find a solution with other ministries to stop the further process of fragmenting agricultural land. Because obviously if we fail to change the Law of Heritage at least when it comes to agricultural land, we should think about how tax laws simply stimulate activity on agricultural land or sanction irresponsible behaviour towards their property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87129	I thank you, too. We've registered three replicas. First respected Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87130	Thank you very much. I would like to welcome my colleague Linic to all of your observations in your discussion. You didn't mention the problem of the island and I think it's clear through the ownership relations you said, namely the islands are the most complex ownership relations since on one plot there can be no 20 owners and there must be 10 of them somewhere in distant countries because there was a large emigration because these are also vineyards and olive groves when it takes of course the consent of the owner. Thus, a solution is likely to be found by another reading. However, I would mention here something else that is not mentioned here and it is not about this law, however, I am thinking that it is very important and it is an urban commission, or a combination of building land. I hope that we, too, will be in agreement with other European Union countries because that is exactly how a row is done in space, or under such, on the basis of urban cohesion, new settlements, that is, parts of cities, are done. The problem, of course, is the code, it can occur in the distortion of space, we are witnessing that there have been various re-uses and of course there have been damage to the citizens. I therefore believe that urban cohesion is one of the most just form of options for the population. So in order to avoid all of this, when we look at just an example of how many politicians have gone to builders, in terms of construction entrepreneurs. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87131	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87132	I agree with my colleague that the particular problem on the islands is for another reason because the irresponsibility to the agricultural areas on the islands also causes enormous damage because we know that I would say the thickness of the agricultural soil and the harmful, harmful plants are the reason that the agricultural area simply disappears on the islands. And that's why, when implementing the Law on the COMMACATION of Agricultural Lands, it certainly needs to work rapidly on the islands that and what little agricultural soil we can return to function as soon as possible, especially if it's a small number of I would say the culture that we can plant on the islands and turn them into what we need, a product. And as far as urban cohesion is concerned, I agree with you, unfortunately we have always been irresponsible to ownership and that is something that this bill shows that other ministries that are responsible for urban and building land would also try to find far more high-quality solutions. And not if we're going to some larger project where more particles are to be rounded up then we have to resort to the Exclusion Act because without the help of the state we can't settle because the owner doesn't want to sell and will not sell, at any cost. So it's not even a problem that times and doesn't appreciate it, but it doesn't want to be sold because it's personally tied, familyly bound, that we don't talk. So these are all laws that are known, all of these are solutions that are famous in the world, and what do we say? So whoever comes from investors to Croatia becomes powerless.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87133	Thank you. Second replica, respected Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87134	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Linic, I really agree with everything you said in your presentation, and I particularly underline these deadlines which are justified how you pointed out too long. It's from Mary Teresa's time to '91. It took us a year to round up 800,000 acres, so in 120 years we've rounded up 800,000 acres. Now somewhere around 300,000 acres, we need to circle much, much faster. However, this law, which I think it is, I would say, that tectonic shifts should be made, not in terms of land boundaries, but in terms of the country's development. So if we're talking about agriculture all the time, if we swear that agriculture is so important to us, in the last 40 years over 208,000 small farms have been shut down, in the last 40 years. Therefore, here for this law, which I consider to be a tectonic shift towards the front should be much faster to determine the dynamics of implementation, but some other laws should also be amended, especially the cadastre and grantovnica should be harmonised because the land in the cataster and garnery are not the same in many places. Look in Slavonia, which exclaims simply for this commission, there simply the catastrian and grant state is not identical, so it should be harmonised. The Law on Land Books as well as the Law on Ownership and Legal Relations should also be amended.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87135	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87136	I'm glad we agree on deadlines. I really hope that the Ministry of Agriculture will understand that after 24 years of Croatian independence cannot give itself a 20-year deadline to implement the vital part of the success of agricultural production because simply if we have large possessions of everything we have invested in the machinery, all knowledge of our people can then come to terms and we will lower the price and in food production, regardless of whether it is a plant or cattle. So... especially this part of 90,000 acres that's been scheduled for six years. Unsustainable. You simply must not propose such a long time because this means that the plan of a multi-annual or five-year-old will not come to the Parliament for almost a full period of 2015. No, he has to be discussed before the end of this year. Before the end of this year, I expect the government and the annual plan to deliver for 2015, and indeed, my people, so I won't talk about the number of agency employees, there's a huge number of agency employees, we transfer them to these jobs not 15, 30, 40 and we hire all units of local self-government without financial expenditure. I'm telling you, you'll be surprised how fast it's going to be. And the story of the catastre and the court registering a solution for a year is unsustainable to me. The question of whether the moon is too much for them. And if we make it all so that it's a priority and that's the goal, I believe we'll be able to show in 2015 how many failures we've had and why we haven't solved that problem for 24 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87137	The third line will be presented by the esteemed Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87138	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Linic, I am really pleased that after a long time, you as a former minister are free to say this, you are experiencing one conversion in terms of tax policy and tax burden on local self-government units. Of course I agree with you completely when you said that local self-government units don't have the strength or the financial powers to finance a law like this. But you are just like the former finance minister, and this is exactly what we of HDZ have repeatedly criticised that units of local self-government can no longer suffer the discharge of the state budget, and on the shoulders and the increasingly powerless backs of local self-government units. That's exactly what we've been saying in this past period of time, and that's why I'm glad that you've made such a statement today as the former minister under this law. It's true, if we don't get the funds, and she's in the air of the local self-government unit, I can't finance it. Then what does that mean? That we can't even bring the Law of Compassion, and we can't carry it out. About the time period you were also talking about, I agree. If we haven't done anything about it in 27 years with these preparations made today, I'm sure we won't be able to solve it for the next 27 years. If we know that there is only 3% of the order between the grantine and the catastra I ask you how and how to carry out the commission, if at the same time we know that the cadastrian measurements in cities and municipalities last for years, then when we're going to pass the Consummation Act if we haven't agreed on the previous things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87139	Thank you. The replica corresponds to the esteemed Slavko Linic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87140	Maybe very briefly. I wouldn't say I turned. Yet for ten years as mayor of the city of Rijeka has left such a trail, that I have always been on the side of local self-government units. So when I remember that a year and a few days ago we changed the level of the non-taxable part, we didn't fall on the burden of units of local self-government, but we reduced it if you remember the 40 percent tax threshold to compensate for the units of local self-government because there was no space in the state budget. In addition, fiscalisation was the greatest effect on local self-government units for the simple reason that the three percentage costs they collect on the marketing of alcohol and drinks units of local self-government are their income. Therefore, I always find that the quality of Croatia is local self-government and project financing just as close to citizens and taxpayers as possible. Therefore, I'm always in favour of giving jobs, but that has to be followed by financial potential. Therefore, I will still and will continue to fight for very different tax solutions that will not be burdened by cities, municipalities and counties, but vice versa. New means to be more responsible at work.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87141	The next replica, the esteemed Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87142	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Linic, I think all MPs will agree in principle on the basic settings of this law. However, one key problem has been touched, and this is financing, and another key problem is garneries and land books. So two keys to two burning problems holds the government in their hands. And when you look at this bill, she didn't offer any concrete solution to those two burning problems. And that's the biggest problem of the law. Because if someone who holds in their hands tools and instruments to solve problems didn't get them in the law, then it's impossible to enforce this law. Why am I saying that? At the time of the introduction of the OIB, only 5% of owners in the Republic of Croatia were seduced through JMBG, and the unique birth number has not been applied in Croatia for 12 years, and it was the basis for pairing with the OIB. Today, speaking with the minister, 17% of the owners were registered through the OIB. So 83% of the owners we don't know at this point for sure whether they're owners or not. Because of those taxes that went up to 75, 75%, land-deposit rates, it was never practically done in land books. And what my colleague Skare-Ozbolt said was catastre and grantovnica have diametrically opposite data. Many units of local self-government from Maria Teresa have not changed land books, and in my view, this is one of the key problems of garland ownership over land not only for this but also for certain entrepreneurial activities and this deadline of one year indicates, we are all talking about removing administrative barriers, and we are being served here to give the state administration the power to stall certain processes. So the government is talking against itself. Because this reform procedure, that here is said to have to be done within a month or two, then it's a reform. But within a year it's unfortunately three steps back.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87143	Replication response, Reverend Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87144	I am convinced that we will have changes in the second reading and that part of this debate today will be installed by the Ministry of Agriculture in this new final draft of the law. Let's really try to understand I don't see the need to hire another 15 employees at the Agency for Agriculture, redistribution of agency employees, and not 15. 20, 30 on this job is what we really expect if we're going to speed up the process. On the other hand, it is evident that the Ministry of Agriculture must seek this basic solution from the Ministry. So much has been spent on land-book projects, we have on the other hand from the Ministry of Construction to invest in cadastrian books. That's all the reason we have to have a final solution in that part too. It is evident that we cannot find a completely clean legal situation, but then legal solutions can be found premature or short-term or temporary solutions whatever. Because it is essential that we have so many objections that when investors enter Croatia they cannot move, they have administrative barriers. Administrative barriers are addressed by certain solutions which can also be temporary but also permanent. Thus, the lack of land-based books to find another 80 percent of the owners is something that we need to solve in different solutions, not by cleaning books that have been going on for 24 years. The first thing we did was clean up the land books.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87145	Thank you. The last replica, respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87146	Thank you very much. Mr Linić spoke affirmatively of the incentives and support that every Croatian government has given to agricultural producers, and it seems to me that you mentioned the total amounts, that it was up to 2 or more than 2 billion kunas. However, very often finance ministers forget that the import of food and agricultural products into the Republic of Croatia has reached and has been very similar in your time, about 14 billion kunas. This pre-EU imports were paid customs, excise duties, taxes, and you as Minister of Finance could easily tell us how much this steak of these customs duties, excise duties, VAT taxes and all that goes on to import food was then granted to farmers in the form of support and incentives in total somewhere around 2 billion kuna. I'm convinced that this amount of all these donations that the state has imposed on imports, and imports are booming, is more than 4.5 billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87147	Replication response, Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87148	I would not agree if I spoke positively of incentives, I believe that any incentive that goes into financing uncompetitive production for me is not an acceptable incentive. But I'm starting from the fact that it's not the manufacturer's fault for his incompetence. Why? Because through the incentives we were giving for tractors, we were giving for equipment, we were giving for long-term plantings, and at the same time always on small properties. And of course you had every farmer with a tractor and that's what I would say to John Deer, who is an enormous capacity for small property. He couldn't have been economical. So what do we have? Of course there's a simple product on the outside that's far cheaper. When there are no more customs barriers in the EU, although since the Stabilisation Agreement there is no more and that is the main problem that we have accidentally pushed incentives instead of going to large production, economic production and essentially through the quality that Croatian agriculture gives plus a competitive price we are going to win the market outside Croatia, we have lost the Croatian market as well. And that is why, as soon as possible with such laws, such reforms as the Law on the COMMACATION of Agricultural Lands must compensate for everything we have lost and allow for the competitiveness of Croatian production. And be assured then we will export, we will not import.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87149	The word has now been made by the respected Deputy Minister of Snježana Spain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87150	Thank you very much. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I wanted to take the opportunity to explain. In this regard, regarding the costs of units of local self-government, we are in the rural development programme which has been prepared to provide for a measure aimed at financing the costs of the implementation of the comcommissioning process. What's the comcommissioning procedure? It actually covers from the catastrian measurement, the state-of-the-art in land books, so the resolution in the ultimate ownership relationship. A large number of agricultural producers told us on the ground that they had problems with the outcome of the loan because their assets could not be displayed as a loan insurance instrument because they did not have resolved ownership relations. We're alone, I've heard, and you've brought here the data that actually somewhere only 3% of the harmony between catastrophe and land books. So it's about agricultural land. In addition, what's more difficult is that because of the non-implementation of the process, it's the subtlety of the possessions, so according to the data that we've come to the Republic of Croatia, there are 14 million cadastar particles and we know what our surface is, 5.5 million hectares. So, some agricultural producers literally go to their fields with a map because they have so many particles and so many different locations. Using fuel, walking, using machinery and everything else leads only to this example that our agricultural producers as hard as they try can not be competitive because their entry costs are high. In addition, land policy measures were unfortunately implemented in the Republic of Croatia only through the State Agricultural Land Act. For 24 years, therefore, there were no other measures that would make land policy more efficient, efficient and better for agricultural producers. This is one of the steps, so the Cooperation Act, we also analyze here what's said to inherit agricultural land, so that we wouldn't happen to round up the process of cohesion and then re-inheriting it. So we're doing a comprehensive analysis that will end up with an expensive measure of land policy. And that's our goal. Because only the Law on State Agricultural Land is impossible to resolve the issue of foundations in agricultural production, which is land. I stress that through the rural development programme of the local self-government unit that they will want, which they will be interested in, they will be able to withdraw 100% of the cost of covering the implementation of the comcommissioning process, which is also co-financing of the costs of agricultural producers. Therefore, to solve their problems related to both the land book and ownership, and to coordinate the catasters, and to rounding up the funds from the European Rural Development Fund will be used. We are aware that we have been too ambitious in this calculation, but because of the need to determine the funds to a certain extent, we have made such a programme so that we can provide as much resources as possible through the European Rural Development Fund and help our units of local self-government to withdraw funds and have no large costs. Here, thank you very much. I hope I answered some of the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87151	Perhaps you've opened some. We have five replicas. Tomislav Klaric first.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87152	Well, ma'am, you didn't seem to listen to a colleague of Linic's and all the replicas that were on his exhibit and his answers. The situation in Croatia, I guess you know for yourself what it is about land, land books, garlands, property and I don't know what kind of problems we are operating on. And when you talk about units of local self-government, so most of us have contracts with the State Geodetic, where we pay 60, 40% of them and we, for a hundred thousand square meters, are estimated to be about 40 million kuna. Now put that on the local self-government units. Without the tools that Mr. Linic spoke of, without the tools that we are talking about here, and what Mr. Shucker was saying, without something that is probably the dead capital of this country, and the strategy should be the development of agriculture, without forcing the heir, who owns it to either register it, and to process it, it will still remain dead capital and you will not be able to solve it with what means. And not to mention that units of local self-government with a number of projects that we have, running towards European floors, must have their own means of security. So it's realistic what Mr. Linic said that it shouldn't be real that I don't know how many years, because it's definitely going to take so long. We've been taking care of local self-government units for 20, 30 years, and there's enough one that doesn't agree to bring a court dispute to block everything. So, you should go not to tax everything but what is targeted is that the strategy and interest of the Republic of Croatia, that through tax policy you force someone who owns it somewhere to either process it or to do it according to this model, and it is very easy to implement with several laws that we can all agree and adopt together. I guess it's the interest of the Republic of Croatia to get rid of it once more This is how we solve the cadastre, no matter what it's not solved, and it's been going down for 20 years and how many years we're not going to solve it for another 100 years. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87153	Thank you. The replica matches Deputy Snowy's Spanish.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87154	Thank you very much. So, you're on your way that I didn't listen to you, and I'm on my way so you wouldn't listen to me. Therefore, related to covering costs from cadastrian measurements to the entry into the land register, to the implementation of all procedures and even the construction of roads and meliorative channels and networks, all the costs of implementing the comcommissioning process are provided for financing from the rural development programme. We went to the local units... Wait, let me, I've been listening to you, please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87155	Please don't throw it off the bench, let the deputy explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87156	So we went to local self-government units, because that's when we went to the farmers' producers, it was costing 50%. If units are local self-government, it's 100%. Therefore, costs will be paid through the European Rural Development Fund programme. And about the length of the process, I forgot to say, so the Ministry of Agriculture can't change some of the procedures prescribed by the Law on Land Books, the state measure of the catastra, so we've prepared a bill based on other laws where it's prescribed how long a particular process is going on. Of course we'd like it to go faster and we'd like to, and we'll make sure it's as fast as possible, but the other things are prescribed in other laws and, of course, they should be respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87157	Second replica of the esteemed Vesna Scare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87158	Your Honor, ma'am, I've been listening very carefully to what you've just said is the essence of the story. So, this law was absolutely supposed to be passed 20 years ago, we didn't bring it, our big mistake, and that's why we have what we have. However, it is necessary to coordinate and amend the Law on Land Books with the Ministry of Justice. For example, you will not be able to begin the comcommissioning procedure unless your land-booked and catastrian status is harmonised. So you have to go to harmonisation. To coordinate, you need to establish or restore a land book, which is what you need money for. The money today at the Justice Department is gone for that purpose. In Zagreb, the renovation of the land book takes place after 10 years. Why? Because there's no money. In Zadar today, you are being disintegrated by feudal agricultural relations in litigation. So there's a lot of trouble. In Zagreb, owned by Croatian Railways, you are registered with Yugoslav Railways, social property, which are the institutes of the old system. That's got to go away. At this rate, you will be blocked because it needs to be resolved previously, as the previous question needs to be resolved by harmonisation and of course you have clear records.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87159	The replica matches Deputy Snowy's Spanish.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87160	So we do not have what we set an example of, but we have that in certain areas where the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have built houses still today you have forest land. So the situation is the way we are, and you yourself said in the debate some of you, that compliance with land books is 3%, meaning ownership and catastra of what is used. So the use and ownership is 3%. Of course, the idea was, and we will insist that the Ministry of Agriculture, and that is why we have set out in the Law on the COMMACATION of Agricultural Land because it is our priority for agricultural producers because it is our priority that they can resolve their situation and that they can report to European funds, invest in agriculture without the unresolved state of their agricultural land will be extremely difficult for them. We have assessed, we have made calculations, of course, we are open to speeding up the process, but in everything the units of local self-government are involved, their cost will be financed from the EU Rural Development Fund, and I hope that the local self-government unit and all of us in the Ministry of Agriculture will recognise the possibility that they will be opened here for agricultural producers from their fields. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87161	Next replica, the esteemed Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87162	Thank you very much. Dear Deputy Spanish Deputys, in direct talks and in debates, it is obvious that you at the Ministry of Agriculture do not understand how complex the situation is in local self-government units. Of course, you are talking about the funds that will come from the European Rural Development Fund that are still in the air, which have not come, where units of local self-government have no guarantee that these same funds will come, and at the same time you do not know that units of local self-government, as I was saying, cannot finance and cannot provide additional resources for such large projects. You probably know that the catastrian measurements themselves cost millions of kunas to spend and sort out local self-government units. You didn't predict, and you had a chance to fix the garter and the cadastre, and then go into this law. Don't think that we here at HDZ are against the Law on Cooperation, but through the discussion of both us HDZ people and here, and the other MPs are visible that this unprepared law gives us the right to keep this going for years, as I said, maybe as long as we've been waiting for the Law on Cooperation, but surely for 20 years. Why? Because you haven't prepared it, because you haven't made any preconditions and because you're putting everything on the back of a local self-government unit. Well, the local self-government unit can't finance a law like this, especially all these advances that are important for this law to be passed. So I am sure that this law will be difficult to implement and that for years and years we will wait to consume it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87163	The replica matches Deputy Snowy's Spanish.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87164	Thank you very much. Here, very briefly. If we hadn't made commitments to agricultural producers, but to local self-government units, because agricultural producers throughout all these many years, I think they're very aware of what happened to them and what we have now in agriculture in the Republic of Croatia. Local self-government units receive funds under the Agricultural Land Act of 65% of the leases, therefore from agricultural producers in their territory. These funds can be used for the purpose, in the implementation of the process of cohesion, the setting up of ownership relations and the resolution that I am not now, shaggings and bushes in certain parts of Croatia where it is sad and sad to see what agricultural areas have come into, and to enable agricultural producers who want to work, who want to invest to reach these areas and that it is that and that the local self-government unit itself becomes a developmental area, that small processing plants are opened and that agricultural producers are finally allowed to be competitive in Croatia and that those who are engaged in agriculture can get that. The Law on Cooperation allows units of local self-government to show that according to their spatial plans, the areas they have established for the development of agriculture want to meet their farmers and want to enable them to implement the procedure, above all because they will be paid and co-financed from the rural development fund. Here, not to overstep, I hope I answered the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87165	Next replica, the esteemed Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87166	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy, I am pleased that, after a few discussions, the intention of this law has actually been revealed which unfortunately will not be enforceable, but we need such a law definitely as everyone has said. It is very interesting that units of local self-government are mentioned as a ficus in the bill itself. They're so, somewhere around here, they're going to give some board members who'll probably figure out somewhere out there, in the other part they're going to take responsibility for everything they can't carry out, and they're not going to be able to implement it. And now it's not clear to me here when you're talking about this funding, how much percent of all this money that will have to be put into the backs of local self-government, whether local self-government will have to pre-finance before they get the money and withdraw money from the rural development programme, whether they'll end up being guilty and whether really after these discussions they shouldn't start thinking that it's necessary and necessary to have the most of the public service within the public administration, within these powerful agencies that they're practically covering each other and blocking each other, and then starting to make a law that will finally be possible to implement. I'd really like to hear how many percent of this money will fall to local self-government and I repeat, will rural development program prefinance funds or will local self-government have to pay, so wait or get that money in advance?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87167	And this replica corresponds to the esteemed Deputy Minister of Snow White Spain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87168	Thank you very much. The law will be implemented in that I assure you because the aim is to help farmers. The agriculture ministry will do everything and do everything in its power to create preconditions to speed up these procedures. As far as local self-government units are concerned, and about what we've discussed, I'll repeat, local self-government units have 65% of what I'm talking about is the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, 65% of the income from the lease of state agricultural land. the additional procedures and large part of the operations are carried out by the Agricultural Land Agency, which concludes a contract with the local self-government unit and with the contractors. Detailed analyses have been made together with the State Geodetic Administration with individual geodetic contractors and the calculations we've given here are based on their data. The funding will be 100%. Of course, if the needs are indicated during the commissioning process for any additional investment, if the units of local self-government want to build a channel network or some road, the roads cannot be financed from this comcommissioning process. Then they will have to provide and will have to prepare a project for this because the process of co-composition is very much covered by the construction of a channel network, melioration systems, travel networks and, of course, by fixing the situation in land books. As for the commission within the state service, I can only remind you that none of the agencies of the Ministry of Agriculture founded and that all agencies were founded ten and fifteen years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87169	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87170	HPA Croatian Agricultural Agency, Payment Agency, etc. The ministry didn't start any.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87171	Thank you. The last replica of the distinguished twilight gnome.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87172	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Madam Deputy Minister, here you are again in your last line, counting everything you need. This law of course needs and from the point of view of science he is fine, however assumptions and you have now numbered them you have not done at all. It's people on the ground, and here you've heard us from all the replicas not only sorry but also amazing, and that's why you won't be able to speed up this process. And that you are, for example. make at least one justification study in one area or an idea project in the area so that you have conducted a public debate in that area and that all interested there or were in or at least 2/3 you would have accelerated. But I repeat, you have not made any preconditions. Through this law, it won't be enough for 20 years for it to start being implemented because the preconditions aren't there, they're gone. And indeed, we do not have these EU funds yet, we are talking about something we do not have yet, and the law really needs it. But it would be very good here to the second reading if we could at least get one concrete idea project or one professional justification, so let's see in that field, what has been done, how people reacted because we really saw that an Internet debate was made, believe that in areas where it will be conducted, where the commission of farmers or their grandchildren may have the Internet and not as long-term Internet debate as they would have been that the Advisory Service carried out or someone from the ministry came and explained to people what and how. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87173	And this replica corresponds to the esteemed Deputy Minister of Snow White Spain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87174	Well, I'll remind you, I apologize if I repeat myself, but the measures for which the rural development tender has been called are being financed already this year from the European Rural Development Fund, so we are using the European Rural Development Fund. Number 2, the ministry has published a regulation implementing measure 5 aimed at restoring production potential in areas which unfortunately had a flood disaster this spring. The competition goes at the end of this week and the beginning of next, so the European Rural Development Fund is used this year. As a matter of fact, we have not made assumptions, I will only read about the assumptions, we have simplified the procedure as much as possible, so the special commission determines the situation on the ground, discusses relations with the country's own self-performing occupation because we are aware that individual agricultural producers, and also citizens, do not already know how many tens of years and more they process the land themselves and not just agriculturalally and determine the situation with each individual agricultural producer. He doesn't need the Internet to come on call, he doesn't need any advisory services, people who get appointments to do it on the basis of contracts that will be concluded with a local self-government unit and a contractor. Here, it can't be simpler. Of course the law is in the first reading, if you have any better suggestions we're open to the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87175	Thank you. Now we're going to continue the club debate. On behalf of the SDP club, the respected vice president of the House of Dragica Zgrebec will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87176	Thank you, Vice President. Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So if all the assumptions that are spoken of here through replicas were fulfilled then this law shouldn't be done, that the state of agricultural land is settled, the Law of Cooperation shouldn't be done. So I think this law is welcome and it's well arranged and I'll say it through further discussion. So when we talk about the process of cohesion, then it's a complex interdisciplinary agrotechnical measure that's not just a rounding of parcels, it's also an arrangement of space, not just agricultural and land books. Well, just because we don't have any land books, we need that kind of process. Good agricultural policy cannot be managed unless good land policy is conducted because this is the basic assumption of rational agricultural production because land is a basic resource in agricultural production. The history of membership in Croatia dates back to the 18th century, in 1766, at the time of the Empress Maria Teresa, the Urban Law on Cooperation was passed, and then those urban communities that we see here today are one of our working groups having a debate on how to resolve disputes or property in such urban communities. In 1902, the Croatian Parliament passed the Law on COMMASSATION until 1947, and 120 catastrian municipalities and about 200 thousand hectares of agricultural land were combined. In 1954, a new Law on COMMASSATION was re-enacted, its work was '74, '84. and '87. A year. In the '54 period. Until '91. 489 catastrian municipalities and about 660 thousand hectares of agricultural land were co-massified. These measures in such an area, which has been combined, increased from 0.4 to 1.04, then you know what the hectares were and the number of particles per agricultural holding has been reduced to 3.4. According to the State Geodetic Office, the Republic of Croatia has 3,000 360 catastrian municipalities, about 14.4 million catastrian particles. In the last century, we had the first agricultural census in 1960, and then a million and 920 thousand hectares were recorded, and when we had the next census in 2003, only one million and 300 thousand agricultural land, which means that over the last 43 years, 600 thousand hectares of agricultural land were lost in production. The land structure is also very unfavourable by the 2003 census and makes rational and profitable production impossible. Here are some data, up to one hectare there are 227 thousand households. From 1.1 to 5 acres 158,000 households. From 5.1 to 10 acres 42 thousand and over 10 acres just 21 thousand households. 448 thousand agricultural households are listed with a million and a half thousand members. So all of this goes in favour of the decision to move into a legislative arrangement and immediately to realise a cost-of-commission project, which is also an important segment of agricultural policy and coalition, i.e. this Government. It should be borne in mind that the rounding of parcels will not produce long-term results and, in particular, because significant resources have been invested in this, unless the Law on ownership and other real rights are changed and, possibly, the Law on Inheritance and prevent the split of the parcel using the experience of other countries. Here I will set an example of France that has very rigorous legislation in terms of preserving agricultural land and agricultural parcels. The positive side of co-massion other than the rounding of parcels means the construction of land and space, so both the channel and road networks and other buildings needed on such land for rational production are being built. Land books are being arranged, which means that investment is being accelerated and used for other purposes not only agricultural and spatial plans, because there is always one part of the land on which the commission is being carried out and some other purpose is not only agriculturally adequately decided by the local community. Production costs are reduced, agricultural land transport is increased as larger parcels are sold more easily than depleted parcels. There are, here is what we have heard now and on several occasions through the answers to the replica of the possibility of using and the means of rural development for this purpose, which is favourable because it is not in terms of structural funds but being paid out of the European budget. It is explained that the draft law was also attended by a respectable task force which included all participants and interested as well as experts, so the public debate was few of which were accepted. I may be among the few here who have had the opportunity to participate in several processes of co-operation in catastrian municipalities, and I know how complicated this is, and I don't think it's a good idea to discuss whether the law is enforceable or not because I'm saying, as I said in the introduction, that the state of these laws was arranged, we wouldn't even need it. Because the Law on the Cohesion of Agricultural Land provides for an institutional, legal and technical framework for the rounding of land that will contribute to the sustainable development of agriculture and rural areas but will also support the development of a national agricultural land rounding policy. The combined land is supposed to be for other agri-technical measures, especially for irrigation and disposal, meliorating buildings, but also for the development of municipal and economic infrastructure, as it also provides a part of the land for such purposes. I would especially point out here that irrigation projects should also be done because Croatia is among the European countries with the lowest irrigation surface, which then makes it impossible to produce more profitable production, especially if it is about fruit production, vegetables and similar cultures. The draft law provides for the commission to be implemented on the basis of the multiannual programmes produced by the Agricultural Land Agency and adopted by the Croatian Parliament. Article 3 provides that a commission of interest for the Republic of Croatia, which is in line with the constitutional provision on agricultural land, is good for the general interest. However, the economic interest of the participants of the land and local communities should also be taken into account, which must have an opportunity to influence the development of the comcommissioning programme as local, not only of general interest. I would like to cite this example of Dalmatian hinterland and islands, which may have higher costs at the beginning of the commission, but will be compensated in the future through more profitable production or acceleration of the investment process. It should be said that it says in the explanation that the areas would possibly be initially intended for the commission, but I think it should be left to the five-year plan or the Croatian Parliament and that it should not be written like this in the very explanation because then this is causing the debate whether it is real or not, it is not realistic. I think it's for assessing both what area and what size the area will be. The Agency for Agricultural Land plays a major role in the preparation of the commission, but as I said, the local community should also be involved. We estimate that the proposed text of the law comprehensively regulates the preparation and implementation of the commission and, as indicated, it will not be necessary to adopt a number of implementing rules that often violate the whole of the law. Since more than two decades in Croatia have not been co-commissioned, except as a pilot project in five counties, and as far as I have information, the pilot project was carried out only in Varazdin County in the area of the Kadastrian municipality of Vidovec, we also point out the need for additional training of a number of people who will participate in the project implementation process. There are both judges and geodetics and staff in the catastro and grants and local people who will participate in the work of the commissions. And if it's going to be high-quality, then we estimate that even deadlines prescribed as deadlines in law will be shorter. We estimate that the Law on Cooperation after the Law on Agriculture and the Law on Agricultural Land is the most important law for the development of agricultural activity and therefore members and members of the SDP Club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87177	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas now. The first came to you, dear Tomislav Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87178	Dear Vice President, you said the negative discussions were on this bill. This law is welcome, it was also welcome to the Strategic Investments Act, the Law on Entrepreneurship Infrastructure, and when we discussed here and when I warned that this law was inconclusive, that in a year it would have to endure changes, it was not a year ago that the Law on Entrepreneurship Infrastructure started to change after a few months because it simply won't listen to us from the field, operatives, people who are operating something. One of those laws you mentioned there until the '80s has a final court verdict where the city had to pay formerly to those heirs of the owner, for 2300 m2 4 million and 200 thousand kuna a few months ago. So we're talking about the feasibility of something in this way that we're talking about, that it's a huge, expensive and long-term process, and there's enough to be one owner, and I guess in today's arrangement, it's undisturbed. How are you going to force someone if they don't, there's one particle inside a couple thousand squares to tell you I won't. How are you going to force him if we don't start thinking about this the way Mr. Linic was talking about? So the thing is simple, we all want and the goal of this country is to put the land into operation, not to depend on some import and to feed us cheap, and to be produced by Croatian farmers. And that's our interest, and they need to round up that land, yes, to put these machines where the incentives were given into operation and not have the costs, to make food cheap. But the way and the way to this model is impossible because we already have experience with fixing grants, cadastres, the simple state is on local self-government, with me in my city we pay because the Ministry of Justice didn't provide funds for the court, and neither does the secretary nor the one there. We've arranged the space, we're paying them to take care of that court, that's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87179	Thank you. The replica matches the esteemed vice president of the House of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87180	I didn't say there was a negative conversation about the law because there was only one club before me. I'm just saying that through replicas is actually expressing doubts about the enforceability of this law. You say who's gonna make them if one of them gives up. So we have the Law on Exclusion when it comes to investment, and when it comes to membership, it is not just a project that will be implemented by Croatia, it is famous throughout the world. Our Constitution says that among other things, agricultural land is a public good, therefore good of general interest and you cannot deal with it as with some other good. That's why you can have the Exorcism Act, which is why France has such a rigorous law that you can't even inherit land if you're not a farmer. There's no way you're gonna rip it up, there's no re-use, it's special commissions that will decide whether to re-route agricultural land into building land. So the countries in our environment have it arranged, and it's just such a process that you make space and land books easier not to go with all those steps that you have to go when there's no membership.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87181	New replica, the esteemed Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87182	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, not that the law is welcome, the law is necessary and must be passed, it is 100% correct but must be clear and enforceable and only that is what I notice that people here speak of in the Parliament. But the doubt that is being imposed is being imposed because as a major actor, the Agency for State Agricultural Land is being imposed, which in the last year or slightly more than a year has not proved very active and has not done much work for what it was founded for, so it has not quite put in place some new hectares of state agricultural land that have not yet been processed in the country's rural areas. You also said that local self-government is involved, we repeat here, here you may be able to answer a question that the Deputy Minister has not answered whether this programme will be pre-financed or that we will receive funds in advance in local self-government. It's a very important detail on which you should give a concrete answer. And when you said that a respectable expert group was working on this, I absolutely support it, but I'm asking a question and counselling was conducted with an interested public, and it's from 14.4. to 14.5. that's the seed time where the peasants are? Where are the people who own this country? Is it enough to communicate with them if even during that period when they are all in the fields, when they are therefore in their fields, meadows, and when they work? So a month's debate about this law and counselling isn't enough, I think we should work on it a little bit more.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87183	The replica corresponds to the esteemed vice president of the House of Dragica Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87184	If some institutions in the state don't work or people don't work in them, they need to be changed. So whether or not the Agricultural Land Agency is going to do it properly depends on the people who are there, who are in charge of them, at the very end of the line about us because we're going to be bringing in five-year plans, that is, multi-annual plans. As far as consulting is concerned, so we now have a first reading, the debate will be open until the second reading through parliament and through round tables if you want to organize, there is our Committee on Agriculture which can also conduct a public debate and I think it leads to it. So, but I'll tell you that in my contacts with people, I come from a working environment where agriculture and the food industry and people can't wait to come into the process because then some small plot they can't sell and maybe sell or round their parcels into one or two, so they'll have cheaper production and as far as the law is concerned, its feasibility depends on how much we'll have the will and will we do it, how much on the ground will it be willing to get to the commission. We've had five pilot projects in the middle of the last decade, we've only spent one thought, and we could learn something through five pilot projects, and we've already got far more areas to be combined with. I talked to participants in the Vidovec commission who were very happy because these are people who produce vegetables and they care about having a parcel that they can irrigate and where their production is profitable.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87185	New replica, the esteemed Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87186	Dear Madam Vice President, it's true what you have now finally said is that these five pilot projects, from which we have been able to learn a lot, unfortunately we haven't. What I would like to comment on in your presentation is the first sentence that everything is so smooth then I wouldn't need this Law of Compassion, only in part I can agree with that. You will not be able to handle the ownership of agricultural land in the process of membership unless the provisions of the Property Act and the Law on Land Books are amended. So besides the Ministry of Agriculture, which must absolutely be the bearer of these activities, the Ministry of Justice must be involved and, in my opinion, the Ministry of Spatial Planning, since you said yourself that I agree with this, I need to take care of landscapes, the landscape is in some way in the law and apostrophe because the land must become an instrument of order of rural space, absolutely must become and the cohesion must be done in accordance with spatial plans. The spatial plans are unfortunately not sufficiently highlighted precisely in this law and I think it must be done because in addition to those good sides of the commission there are also those bad ones where you'll have to tear down the woods, you'll have to change the green areas, you'll have to do a lot of it. Therefore, it absolutely takes much wider mobilisation of other branches, other structures of ministries to include in this project because it is truly of strategic importance as you yourself have said.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87187	The replica matches the respected vice president of the House, Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87188	So I was just in my presentation and I said on behalf of the club that it would be necessary to intervene in the Law on Property and Other Real Rights, the Law on Inheritance but most likely in the Law on Agricultural Land to talk about it because there should be a need to preserve the value of land, so it is being processed when it is already complicated to process. And I'll tell you myself, because I worked in a company like that, I was involved in a three-catastar community. Nor did the forests collapse, nor did land be lost, but new surfaces were obtained because when you have no more borders, when you round it, you get a larger area that the local community then uses for its own needs. No forests are destroyed even green areas because they are agricultural land.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87189	Now let's listen to the replica of Stjepan Milinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87190	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm glad, Madam Vice President, that you've spent us through the history of cohesion since Maria Teresa, and I'd say that in that history I've unfortunately had unpleasant memories of that law I mean from '84. what you said in my community when the commissions wanted to spend their pendejo and imposing one, people resisted and resisted it because it was simply that in this area the quality of the land was completely different from one place to another. Second, they said you'd have to pay for it, you farmers. Thirdly, every farmer of ours is emotionally bound to that plot. Now, that's what we refused then. Now he says the local self-government units will have the main word. Well, there's not a single unit leader of local self-government who won't say hello to say he wants to improve agriculture in its midst. I'm proud and I think I come from an environment that tries to do it in a quality way, improve as much as possible under these circumstances. But it is not clear to me at all, and it makes no sense for me that the commission, in accordance with Article 46, has two members from the agency and none from the local self-government unit. It's the first moment I've noticed. Maybe it's... Well, make this right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the first one. Secondly, he says during the commission's conduct, all participants should, therefore, be too high and unnecessary to play the role of these counties, the county commissions. It seems to me this way in a way a little extra, and that's something to think about. Because it may happen that now these committees will tell you it's good for you, and the units of local self-government will take responsibility, and then we will get not a pendejo now but from those who need to do it in a different way. You understand? I kind of want to warn you about that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87191	The reply to the replica, the esteemed vice president of the House of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87192	That's why I'm saying that through the debate we're talking about the law, so until the second reading, maybe we'll get some work done, fix it, etc. And I hope that no one in Croatia today will force anyone to go to the comms or not to go to the comms. But it can't be one or two potential participants or owners just because of some romantic land connection that makes it impossible for others to do so. So, as far as land quality is concerned, that's the problem. And there's always a problem in the Catastrian municipality, it's not the same quality of land in the whole catastrian community. But that's going to be solved by the directions, but it's been dealt with so far in the conversations that have been carried out so far in a way that if you got more quality land, you got an adequate lower surface, or if you got a lower land quality, a lower class than the one you went into the business with, you got a bigger area. And people were mostly satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87193	The last replica, the gnome of the twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87194	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, so in one way you called us a little bit and said why in reality we are constantly questioning this law. We continue to say that such a law is necessary. We've expressed our doubts. And among other things, one of the suspicions is that here in 2012 we remember the Law on the Hire of State Agricultural Land when Minister Jakovina was here and said very euphorically that a million acres would be leased, used, given to farmers in production, and then we again expressed our suspicions to him and told him that he really didn't know the situation and that it was impossible. So then he passed the regulation, degraded all the activities that were in the matter, and then in 2013, it was last year, Vice-President of the 500 hectares of the Parliament, which was leased for agricultural state land. And now 29 thousand and 500 hectares of land are expected to be placed. Here, that's where we're from, or the plan is from 80 to I don't know 100 thousand acres. Why are we talking about getting everything well prepared and that's why we're warning you, Madam Vice President? You know the matter and you're well familiar with agriculture, you've been president of the Agriculture Committee and you can kind of see it. I know that you will, of course, defend this law to be excellent, but I'm sure by the time you read it, you'll have your comments and you agree that you should examine it from all aspects and that it would be good to have one idea project as a pilot project to implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87195	Thank you. The replica matches the vice president of the House, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87196	I won't have any objection to the law because I think the law is good. The law is good and enforceable. And it depends on how much he spends. The will of the people who will be involved in the commission, therefore having land in a given area, of a local community that must be included because the catastrian municipality is in its territory or more cadastrian municipalities in its territory and depends on how much money we will have because it is an expensive process. And since the expensive process is then to pay maximum attention not to break the process later, so it is necessary to urgently change these other laws as well. But we, when we tried only to edit a little bit, remember in the last term of the Law on Land that the Constitutional Court had abolished certain provisions where we said we should manage the farm land by private owners. And that part must be arranged, arranged in a way that is consistent with the Constitution. And as far as no pilot projects are concerned, we must urgently move into the first project, make a commercial project, bring in a five-year plan. It's not easy and it won't be easy to implement quickly, if in a year we prepare a few cadastrian municipalities to enter the project of co-composition it'll be great.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87197	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, the respected Franjo Lucic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87198	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues when we talk about the Law on Cooperation then we must certainly say that he has experienced his last changes, as has been said 27 years ago today. And as the government announced in July this year, the adoption of a new Law on Cooperation should put the wind in the back of the competitiveness of our agricultural production. The current situation in Croatian agriculture reflects the activities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to direct the entire agricultural sector. The results of this government action do not need to be particularly stressed because the ratio of imports and exports of agricultural products speaks for itself enough. But back to the proposal of the Law on COMMASATION, it is true that the implementation of the commission would greatly contribute to the more economic exploitation of agricultural land and create preconditions for the regulation of agricultural land that would ultimately result in the competitiveness of our agriculture. It is also true that land can be combined, arranged, ready for agricultural production with minimum costs without the same resulting from the absence of a national strategic framework for the development of agriculture. We must not forget the specificity of ownership over the agricultural areas of our village, the inviolability of private ownership and the volunteering of the participants in the conduct of the comcommissioning process. We have here and the obligations arising from this bill for units of local and regional self-government relating to the financing of the costs of carrying out the comcommissioning process and the cost of investments that will be directly linked to the implementation of the commission. The proposal sets out the European Rural Development Fund's funds as a source of funds for commercial operations in the framework of the Rural Development Programme. This appropriation is intended to cover: All those who have had the opportunity to run for funding withdrawal projects from European funds know very well how much the cost of project making and how much it burdens and creates problems for local self-government. Furthermore, we are talking here about the resources that we will withdraw from the rural development programme, which has not yet been approved by the European Commission. In other words, "We're making rye and the rabbit's still in the woods." Furthermore, Article 44 provides that contracts on the performance of expert geodetic works, works on meliorations buildings, as well as other buildings shall be concluded by units of local self-government, i.e. regional self-government if they bear the costs of carrying out works. What does this formulation mean, who's carrying out the work? Unless they're borne by a local, regional self-government unit, is the investor a private company who? Are we talking here about satisfying someone's interests if, yes, whose land will be collated by this law, private, state? These are questions that cannot be read from this law. We all agree as a commission is needed, but we would be happy to hear the arguments related to the areas in which the work will be carried out. The commission will be implemented on the basis of multiannual and annual programmes. Both will be developed on the basis of expert analyses by the Agricultural Land Agency, so we assume that there are now indications which areas would be covered by these laws. Furthermore, Article 8 of the Law sets out how the sale on agricultural land by way of use of vineyards, orchards, olive groves and ponds can only be carried out if their owners agree to this. What about the government land that is in a long lease and whose tenants are not the owners of the land in question? It should also be defined as meaning in the draft law of the less area on which a commission can be carried out without the consent of the owner. Furthermore, Article 36(3), Article 37(4) speaks of the conditions to be met by the President and the Vice-President of the County Commission. So they must be judges of the municipal court or civil servants of the state administration's office responsible for property and legal affairs have completed a pre-graduate and graduate university study or an integrated pre-graduate and graduate university study or specialist professional study of legal professions and passed a judicial exam. It is questionable whether persons who have completed a professional study of the legal profession can have a judicial exam, or whether they can even go out on it. Article 36(4) determines who may be members of the County Chamber and their deputies. It would be good here to make an obligation for the members of this commission to be members of the unit of local self-government, or the city of Zagreb, so as not to be in the communicative body, for example in Požeko-Slavon County, to have members, cartoons, from Dubrovnik County. In principle, the provisions of this proposal of the law are literally prescribed by a applicable law which could not be applied because of the appointment of first-degree commissions for whose appointment the competent municipal assembly was abolished by a new territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia. We believe that this bill will be difficult to implement in practice primarily because of the lack of enforcement of ownership rights over agricultural land. I've already said, the weak harmony between the garland and the catastrophe, it's about 3% of the harmony between the garland and the catastrophe. As well as the longevity of the commission procedure. On the issue of the capacitation of the Agricultural Land Agency for the construction and implementation of multiannual and annual cohesion programmes, it is difficult to happen at this time, but we are afraid that special structures and units within the Agricultural Land Agency, which will employ 15 workers, will be insufficient to carry out such sensitive and demanding work. It is also necessary to add here the tasks which will be based on this bill to be carried out by local self-government units and the fact that the largest areas of agricultural land are precisely in the field of the most underdeveloped units of local self-government. So we're going to meet here a problem of local administration's capacitation in the conduct of these affairs. We all know what problems we've encountered and we're still meeting in the process of making available to state agricultural land. The same story could happen again in the application of this law. Of course, there's a lot more to what I've been talking about. I have already been through replicas and I have been involved and I have said that, as long as the funds are not secured in the European fund, it is not possible to count on the funds of the units of local self-government, precisely because units of local self-government through various discharges of the state budget so burdened that they simply will not have the resources for this law that is extremely demanding and which requires enormous resources. We also spoke here that the debate was held, and it was held in only a month and it was just spoken of and Mr. Hrg is insufficient. Dear colleagues and colleagues, will we be discussing such an important law for only a month, and even the institutions that were to be introduced have not been informed? What is the meaning of the debate during the season when farmers are, in particular, in their fields? Why have we come so easily to such a bad debate, when it comes to such an important law for our agriculture? Of course the law is inconclusive of what to say if the particle goes to another county? That's not what the law says. What if someone doesn't want to participate in a piece? Well, that's also one big problem. How and in what way did this law be protected, did he foresee that the process of compromise was indeed and implemented? When we're talking about the time in which we're going to spend our business, then I won't be optimistic because I know, because as mayor of Požega-Slavon County, in the town of Pleklernica, I've been conducting cadastral measurements that lasted several years. The cadastar measurements that cost a lot, and here in the Law of Compassion, we didn't do what we had to do, that we had implemented the changes first, that I wasn't talking about the arondation, and everything that was necessary to do before this law. Of course, this was about not only this law but also about everything that preceded the adoption of this law and the irrigation, and of course I will look back here and look back, which is also about to make certain protection and prevention and what happened to us, and these are floods that followed in May and September this year, especially in Požega-Slavon County, in order to build certain systems, it is necessary to also make cadastrian changes and the Law on Cooperation, and precisely my question that was addressed to the prime minister, and it was based on why we did not build these flood protection systems, he replied that the units of local self-government for this bear responsibility. So I ask you respected friends how and how the units of local self-government are responsible, is tomorrow also going to say that the units of local self-government are responsible for the adoption of this incomplete Law on Cooperation? And, of course, when my question was focused on the prime minister, it was only aimed at trying for a short period of time, and by the law passed by this government in 2014 to build the protection of the flood system on the River Orljava on the left and right without a building permit, because the law allows, and that during the next two years, Croatian waters are bound to produce all necessary documentation and construction permits. In order to be able to do these things, in order to be able to carry out certain activities on the protection of particularly those affected by floods, it is necessary to adopt a Law on Cooperation, it is necessary to implement cadastrian changes. But here today we're experiencing a feeling that some MPs don't understand exactly what we're saying on the opposite side, that we want to implement this law in terms of membership, but at the same time we warn that this is a time period that will last but it will only take because we haven't prepared the law in the way we need to, we haven't created all the preconditions that should have been created. And that's why we believe that this law will not be possible for a short period of time, and I'm afraid it will take as long as it has to be passed for 27 years. We at HDZ know how we're going to spend it and we're ready for it and when we're at the opportunity. When we come to power, we will implement our views in this law that is not complete. [[Intruder Stazic: Bring the end.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87199	Until then, you'll be listening to the replicas from your club. First Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87200	My colleague Lucić is here as a representative from your club, I don't know why it is constantly mentioned, but here we heard quality and debates and replicas and Mrs Škara Ozbolt, Shuker, Mr Linić we all spoke and suggested that a law like this really requires a broad and comprehensive public debate because it is not only about this Law on Cooperation, but also about the Law on Ownership of the Justice Ministry, the State Geodetic Administration and all these problems. You mentioned Prime Minister Milanovic's statement, we all heard him in these floods that he is significantly slowing down the unsettled cadastre and that's the fact. Mrs. Zgrebec has mentioned the possibility... because of the Strategic Investment Act, this possibility does not exist because the Law on Exclusion is clear and he says what can be ruled out and why, but does not speak for this, neither speaks in that Law on Strategic Investments nor in the Law on Entrepreneurship Infrastructure that we have recently passed, and we will have to change all these laws precisely for reasons because this is not how they are adopted because not all those who need to be involved are involved. It's a huge job and a complex job that will last for decades and cost millions not to say billions of kuna. It's about 14,000 400 I don't know millions of cadastrian particles. Who, how, and how will they handle it? I'm going to give an example of solving property relations for just one football field that's been done by procedures... that's been going on for 5, 6 years and costs units of local self-government because it's already about 400,000 kuna somewhere. We have an example in entrepreneurship zones where one of the co-owners in one twenty for 15 years has been tried with a unit of local self-government, a regulated plot, an infrastructure equipped cannot be put into operation precisely because units of local self-government have no ability to rule out that land for that purpose. So there are a lot of issues that need to be discussed at a wide debate not like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87201	Reply to the replica Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87202	Thank you very much. My colleague that I agree, so of course those strategic investments that the government advocates and says should be strategic are not implemented precisely because of the unsettled relations we are talking about. So we're just warning that this law won't be enforceable because we haven't made any advances. I asked the Prime Minister how and in what way do we know, but we need the permission of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to build embankments on the Orljava River, which cost 7 to 10 million kuna, and the total damages are 170 million kuna, to build on an accelerated procedure without a building permit because the law that I spoke about earlier in 2014 shows that in the midst of the elementary disasters, the war or any other disasters can build objects to protect people and property. The same facilities are also ordered to be removed after two years, or if they are necessary for them, the outcome and the authorisation shall be given, for example, to Croatian waters to produce all necessary documentation within two years. That's all I asked the Prime Minister for, and he answered me and I'll pretend I didn't hear you. So then I ask the question, what kind of way to build it at all if we don't have a relationship here, if we don't have cadastral measurements, if we don't have how he said a good law on exorcism, and we have it, we brought it in. Therefore, everything is only feasible if there is a good will for it, and I can see that there is no good will in this government. But I am convinced that their thoughts and thinking of all of us who will present them with all these problems will follow. He'll understand what it's all about. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87203	Marijan Škurić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87204	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow, in your debate over this law that's now on the agenda, you've had a lot of the thesis and expertise on the application itself, but you've also had the most political thesis about the law itself. One of the things you've always mentioned is that this law that's now in the debate is too little time to argue, that it's a very crucial law but that all the measures that have been taken are not good. Now I'd be honestly surprised about one thing and it's an advocate like you fell from Mars and your party that the 20 years you held in power couldn't pass this law. Why, for eight years, we haven't discussed it so that we can make concrete conclusions today. I'm surprised you've been able to do everything for 20 years, but now there's only a few more details that we can define and make it even better in the development of agriculture and everything else. I wonder why. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87205	Reply to the replica Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87206	You colleagues are just forgetting that the SDP has been in power for four years and then ask the question of what the SDP did during that time. However, during the HDZ and behaviour of the Croatian Democratic Community, the largest catastrian measurements were carried out throughout Croatia, in cities and municipalities during this time period. And we have just made our proposal and pains to fix the situation in the Republic of Croatia as much as we could. And in my direct debate, I said the Croatian Democratic Community has a position on the Law on Cooperation and we know how and how to arrange it. Therefore, the time the SDP lost while he was in power did nothing. And we've really done a lot in the course of our government to enable local self-government units to sort out their situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87207	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87208	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Lucic, you have made a good point of the problem and the fact is that the Croatian government led by HDZ has done very much because today we would not be a member of the European Union, we would not talk about it at all and everything that is directed by the SDP and is believed to be political so let it be taken into account that they were in power for 8 years. And the first construction of land books you said well began right at the time of the HDZ government. There's a former minister, sitting right behind us who started it. But I didn't want to talk about it right now, I want to say this, that the responsible government should be aware of the problem and the responsible government should create preconditions as you said. And what I said once before in replicas, and once again, we should turn to similar experiences of countries in our environment, which are Austria, Germany and Italy. I think it really should have been done in a way that the agency, this time of the Agriculture Agency, was to make a study of justification for the cohesion area, i.e.. an idea project that would then be carried out at the level of the unit of local or regional self-government on which the catastrian municipalities are located and to which the scope of the programme would be covered by the previous public debate. And if, according to that previous public debate, the surveyed farmers in two-thirds are declared to have then this programme or the law makes sense because it will be implemented much faster. And you've also highlighted this government, or the representatives of the ministry, so they're very aware of the problems they're going to face.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87209	Thank you. Reply to the replica Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87210	That our colleagues are coming to us, and here's a colleague who just said you didn't do anything. And during the HDZ government we have just made and started these preparations that are necessary but of course this government did not recognise that it continued but is going towards the final law that will not be enforceable. Not to mention everything that's been said that the former HDZ government hasn't done much about pre-accession contracts, so please, who has prepared all of this together so that this today's government can enforce these laws and pass laws if it hasn't been prepared and people who were just inside the HDZ. I don't like to be politicized here. It's all about politics. We need this law here, people need this law, but don't say anything that's true, don't find yourself offended. Because this man who deals with agriculture in the country, he doesn't care about this kind of shooting, he just wants this law to be implemented. But we act well here and warn and we have warned many times in a series of cases and in a series of laws that have been passed here. And it turned out to be true, and then what did we do? We lost time, didn't want to listen, and we came in a position to supplement, and that's why we have a series of changes, additions, laws that were unsettled. Be wise now, listen to the cry from this other side of people who also know and who have participated in a series of these cases and the adoption of similar laws. Don't act deaf because the biggest damage is the one that this law needs, and that's the little man, the farmer who needs this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87211	Hansel Mandic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87212	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Lucic, I'm glad I heard from your mouths now in the replica that the commission needs it. It must also be the task of all of us to make this law as high as possible, as simple as possible, as possible. What I've replicated is the question of Article 7 where you mentioned whether it was possible in other counties. Here in this law are mentioned catastrian municipalities and it is possible to partially and more municipalities to be covered. So there's no problem if it goes from one county to another, from one catastrian municipality to another. It does not have to be in the entire Catastrian municipality, it may be parts of an interest which it must justify economically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87213	Franjo Lucic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87214	Yeah, I know that article 7 says that, but I'm saying that it needs to be far more specific in order to make it easier to implement. We're just through our constant presentations saying yes, we're up for it, but we want this constructive debate on both sides to be comprehensive. And that's why all of these proposals, so ultimately the colleague said earlier, we have a minister who started certain things around and catastrian measurements and general preparation was done. We all know that the law needed to be passed on to a piece long ago, it wouldn't have waited 27 years if it were so simple and it was so expendable. We therefore advocate that this preparation, and ultimately this is the first reading of this law, to clear it, to supplement all of our proposals, and in the second reading, and that the legislator, or the Ministry of Agriculture, and before we finish the debate here, should implement these proposals and classify it because we will have fewer problems later. If we don't do it, and if we stick to what the ministry has put on the proposal here, then I'm afraid it's right for those who use it to have big problems. So yes, we're all in favor of the law, but let's just let these proposals on the left and right be implemented in this new law that we all need together.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87215	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87216	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague, you said the laws in Croatia can be implemented, but there is no will for it from those who should implement them. So I'm going to say that there may be laws in Croatia that could be implemented, but unfortunately in Croatia one big redesign of legislation should be made and most of the law cannot in principle be implemented, that the blocked state for this reason is in one large part. And that's why I said just now that we're talking about a combination that would be necessary first to make a public administration, a whole system, so that a law like this could be implemented later. And you said yourself that there was not enough public debate, that there wasn't enough counseling. I haven't read anywhere that the Croatian Agricultural Chamber is involved. Yes, the institution that this government unfortunately collapsed before it began to live is wounded, and it is necessary in this part. She is the institution to gather peasants and to prepare such things. You also wondered what local self-government units would be responsible for. For everything. For all that can't be done under non-executive law. In the end, it's gonna be the local self-government, like she's guilty of everything else. Whatever is done or not done, the blame is always transferred in the last three years to local self-government. It's very incorrect in this way and that's exactly the point of the story why so many criticisms and from local officials at the very end of the day. Because we are already predominant that it might come to the idea that local self-government will be guilty and then we suspect that this law is actually a pre-election law, that it is not planned to be implemented at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87217	Franjo Lucic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87218	I agree with my colleague, Hrg, entirely with you, that we haven't even taken care of the state administration. But you know what else is important, we all know that together. I'm not going to have to say fix up the state of the State's attorney's office, that the State's Attorney's office reacts more quickly. We are witnessing on our units of local self-government that both the state administration and the state's attorney's office are a major obstacle to resolving certain matters. I'm sure there's no one against certain shops, but certainly with the State's Attorney's office should talk and see how and how to speed things up, especially when it comes to law-making. And when the law is enforceable tomorrow, it will happen that the obstacle will be in the State's Attorney's Office due to indeterminateness. That's why we urge this new Law of Cooperation to be defined, to be clear, to be simple, to be recognizable, and ultimately it will be implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87219	And Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87220	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Lucic, I am pleased that you have pointed out the importance of the cadastrian measurement and the editing of land books and, personally, in our midst in a catastrian municipality, we have spent this and we have witnessed the immeasurable benefits, especially at the time of this now legalization of these illegally built objects we are certainly and interested in. We have three more catastrian municipalities where we are also very interested in continuing this procedure. But as for the composing, here I am skeptical, in my midst for the reasons I spoke already in the earlier replica when we were once convinced by the pendejo that it was good. But I don't want to politicize these things at all here, but I want to be constructive and think about those things that I can improve that cohesion. Let's go when everyone says she's welcome to me is the situation she is. I said about these committees, the composition of committees, and the county commissions that were somehow given greater importance. But there's one more moment. My farmers circled themselves, circled the land in various ways, bought, changed, and created a remarkable and good production. We're also the first to form a dairy producer's organisation, also with intent and so on. And that's why I want to say here I'm not clear about this rounding one moment that I want to trouble, where it's not clearly indicated during the commissioning process, what about paying real estate taxes. That's the one, that's the problem. It's very important to me that I know the traffic of real estate because if it were to be released then it would be kind of stimulated in the same way that rounding. Here's one moment I want to trouble. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87221	Franjo Lucic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87222	A colleague of yours as head of local self-government has been here for many years, and I have just discussed these things many times in our direct discussions, and of course all these procedures that are being conducted are extremely expensive. But we're just agreeing that this commission and this law need units of local self-government. However and in any way, whether the sale of real estate has a VAT obligation or not, I don't think there's anything special we're talking about here. That's probably where Ms. Spanish's deputy will tell us more about it. But of course, if it were and what you're proposing, I'm sure it would have accelerated and that people would've done it much easier and faster, and of course it's in everyone's interest and of course it's in the interest of the local self-government units first and foremost. But the most important thing is to do it all for the benefit of those who use that land, which are agricultural producers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87223	Deputy Minister, Snow White Spain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87224	Thank you. Honorable Madam Representatives and Honorable Gentlemen Representatives. Thank you very much. There was a lot of it. First of all, I thank you for your suggestions. The law is in the first reading, and we will consider everything you have constructively suggested. But I see I have to go back, I can't talk about implementation, I have to go back. What did the SDP government do? In 2001, the Law on Agricultural Land was adopted and began to be made available to state agricultural land. I'm talking about the SDP government. Local self-government units have begun the procedure. By 2013, between 2001 and 2013, 260,000 hectares or 20,000 hectares per year were given. This year, the Agricultural Land Agency made 11,000 hectares available, last year 50 thousand hectares of temporary availability for five years, and through the Law on Forest Land, we solved forest land where our agricultural producers who built vineyards and olive groves could not have built a barracks on those same surfaces, let alone a winery or other. These areas are 25,000 hectares and these areas will pass into agricultural land because they were in the history of agricultural land, we are only because of the non-implementation procedures and all these other measures that make up land policy did so primarily that our agricultural land on the islands is now pine, maquis and karst, and there is no agricultural production. 25000 hectares of forest land that has been brought to agriculture is being made available to the Agricultural Land Agency. As far as our plan is concerned, so when we add up 11,000 hectares and 25,000 hectares, there are up to 36,000 hectares this year, and it is said that the priority of the Ministry of Agriculture is to give land, and we have heard that agricultural producers received loans for farms, for machinery, for raising large farms with 70 and more cows. They didn't have a hectare of land. Priority has made an analysis of the paying agency and the Ministry of Agriculture that as much land as 90000 hectares are missing this year is made available to farmers who are in a difficult financial situation. That's what the SDP did, what HDZ did. As regards further availability when the Agricultural Land Agency was established in 2009. According to data made and transparent and can be reached by any citizen of the Republic of Croatia. From 2009 to 2013 there was no agricultural land available in Croatia, because it was taken over by the Agricultural Land Agency to avoid entering now who was director, who was director of the Ministry and Director of the Agency for Agricultural Land, etc. The agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia has not been available since 2009. Regarding the process of cohesion when we speak facts, all developed European countries that have large agricultural production of Austria, Italy, Germany, the Netherlands have been carrying out this procedure continuously for centuries and, of course, their agricultural producers are more competitive because they have taken care of what is their tool for work – the country. We did what we did for 27 years. We've trimming agricultural land to particles that are 1 metre square. Then we bring national irrigation programs, floods. So we know ourselves that local self-government units that the situation on the ground is impossible, that when you go to work some Polish road or irrigation system that the agricultural producer has particles at 30 or 40 locations. How is he going to state this, what kind of system does he need? Well, no one in the world has such a system, not in Europe. We agree and we're open to suggestions but this is for agricultural producers. Someone mentioned pre-election law, no, we're trying to do what's in the interest of agricultural producers. Introductoryly, I said, an analysis at EU level of how the inheritance of agricultural economies has been resolved. Very soon, the Minister of Agriculture will come out with a proposal. So, we do the maximum that 27 or no longer know how many years of neglecting the care of agricultural producers and ensuring competitive conditions of their business to leave it behind and to step forward bravely and boldly because of them in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87225	Thank you very much. Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87226	Thank you very much. You said what the SDP government did for the village and agriculture, especially what the agency did. The question of these hectares of power that you mentioned that the agency had put into operation is simple. Whether this land was already in some form of availability before so it was only extended or some new hectares that had not yet been covered by a program of availability from those times that you're saying that no one had done anything. What did the SDP government do? Well, she hired 193 people at the Agriculture Payment Agency in 2.5 years. And she swept the peasants all the way. That's what they say, if we talk like that. People say it's never been worse than it is now. It was hard, it was stupid, there were mistakes, but they say it was never like this. That's what people in the field say. Try talking to them and you'll get the answers you're putting yourself here. And I repeat the question, for the third time, will I repeat it all day today, will the rural development programme funds be given to local self-government as funds for the financing of the commission or will they be received in advance? Will it be pre-financing or will money be won in advance?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87227	Snowy Spanish, reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87228	Thank you very much. Yes, 11 thousand acres is a land that has never been put into service. Unfortunately, the Republic of Croatia has a state agricultural land with shrubs and forests and has never been made available. We're talking about that the Agricultural Land Act was passed in 2001 and that it was being implemented you said by 2013 until we came up with a guideline. Who and why is to blame for the state agricultural land as she said and the esteemed vice president is defined by the Constitution as a general good and has special protection of the Republic of Croatia, serving for the purpose of growing forests, and not food on it. Regarding the number of employees, 193, I would like to remind you that the Payment Agency was founded in 2007 as part of the Directorate, and in 2009, it became a legal person. So 650 people work at the paying agency, you mention 193. I'm asking you to judge for yourself when it's employed as many people. As regards local self-government and funding units, therefore, in law we did not limit funding opportunities as a ministry because we left local self-government units in part, they can, in part, come from the state budget because they sign a tripartite contract between the Agricultural Land Agency, between the local self-government unit and the contractors and of course they can from EU funds. Almost everything is possible, and the deal is how it will be implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87229	Franjo Lucic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87230	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Hrg, I'll certainly focus, I'm sorry, but I'm going to be focusing on the presentation of the Deputy Minister, Mrs. Spanish, who also took part in a party debate. So I don't know why you as vice president are getting involved in what the SDP did, what HDZ did. But now I'm going to answer that, whenever you want, which is what the SDP did and why agriculture is in such a difficult position today. I'll just tell you that the government relationship you're sitting in and your ministry did despite our appeals, you've been cutting down on the agriculture ministry's budget. You've cut it in over three years over a billion and a half kuna. I'll just tell you that in 2002, the number of OPGs that sold milk was 63,000, and 2003. 12,000. Mrs. Spanishol, I must tell you that the government's relationship with the farmers has done everything that the farmers have gone missing. No more agricultural holdings. And I'm afraid that just the funds offered to us from the EU will have no one to consume because agricultural economies have been destroyed. The import of meat is increasing every year. In 2012, 256 million dollars, 2013 imported $353 million. Well, that's absurd. It's such an increase, and it's all over the place saying that we don't have domestic production, that we don't have a domestic strategy that needs to be based exactly on fostering agricultural economies. Yeah, that's exactly what you did in SDP. I ask you, why did you just do it to make today's man in the country so hard to live?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87231	Thank you. Please, let's focus on the law and we'll discuss it better. Replication response, Snowy Spanish.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87232	Thank you very much. So, about politics, I'm sorry, but I think the MPs themselves went that way, so I wanted to answer because I included actually making more of your proposals, and that's how I responded, so I answered in fact when what year was done is done. As far as the agricultural situation is concerned, so everyone who deals with agriculture and who knows something about agriculture knows that the results in agriculture do not come suddenly. The result of the situation in agriculture is the consequence of the non-implementation of this process of cohesion, non-implementation and non-compliance of comprehensive land measures, the granting of capital investments and loans to farmers who cannot repay it. So it's all a consequence. We're aware, we're working on it, but we can't talk about it in a way that brings our citizens and our agricultural producers into doubt when and where it happened, it didn't happen two years ago, it lasts. In the commission process for 27 years, and in other procedures when we come up with the proposals, and the Minister of Agriculture's succession, we'll see how many problems we have there. So here I am asking that citizens and agricultural producers, based on all these facts, bring their own judgment which is in agricultural production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87233	On behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, a colleague of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87234	I would like to thank Mr. Minister with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a Law on the COMMACATION of Agricultural Land, we who remember the last commission know that the commission is a very complex, formal legal procedure. And in that sense, in the name of the club, I would say first of all if there was a political, strategic decision to go into co-operation for reasons that were said here on several occasions and I will not repeat them because we think they are justified, logical and necessary for the further development of agriculture. We support this strategy of the ministry and support the ministry in the adoption of implementing, implementing acts, i.e. the law that is currently under discussion in the first reading. And I will comment on it and with a desire to contribute to getting a quality implementing act in the second reading for this process which, I repeat again, is very complex, expensive and long-term, but it is, we need to show to the public that it is ultimately multi-payable to society. In this regard, I also interpreted all the discussions that were on the subject of this legal text today on both the left and right sides, meaning also the opposition that warns against the assumptions that should be done well so that this process of cohesion could be carried out. I will also say a few dilemmas about the very assumptions that are proposed in this law. Compassion is usually a set of administrative and technical procedures that form small and fragmented cadastral particles into larger and decorated areas, agricultural areas. And what's particularly important to us is the ownership and other real legal relations on land. Why does it matter to us, I will say through arguments in further discussion. The commission shall be carried out in such a way that each participant of the commission gets for the land covered by the commissioning of a new land in as little particle as possible, along with, of course, the deduction that they make for the general needs. And we think that this is the basic logic of the commission, so to protect it, to fulfill the public interest of the state, to buy property because of the rationalization of technological production, because of European funds, because of the construction of infrastructure projects such as road, water, etc. The other component that is very important and should not be ignored, protected and satisfied by the interests of the owners of individuals or other participants in that combination. As a process, the commission will be well done, the objective will be achieved if this balance is reached between the two interests of the public and private, and this should be governed by the assumptions of this legal text. The commission was once, the last commission was carried out in the Republic of Croatia in a different environment, assuming that when we had collective ownership over private property, it could then be arranged differently, simpler and more effectively because it was collectively so-called. social property was primary and priority. Today we have a reverse situation that the basic component of the commission is arranged private property which is unhurtable. And here I see that there will be many formal and technical obstacles to the completion of this commission within a reasonable period of time. We see that the majority of the commission refers to the area of Osijek-Baranja County which has the obligation to compass 64 thousand, Vukovar-Srijemska with 29 thousand hectares, Virovitical-Podravska with 26 thousand hectares and Brodo-Posaviska with 22 thousand hectares for the commission. Obviously, there is also the best state of the garland or land-marked property here, and that this commission will be easier to carry out in these Slavic counties. And we will see later that this process will be much, much harder to implement in the rest of Croatia. As far as costs are concerned, one public question is whether these costs, the cost of carrying out the commission, whether they will be proportionate to the benefits expected from the commission, or to simplify whether these funds will be recovered, paid to improved agricultural production, which is of course the subject of further discussions. Likewise, when talking about costs, it should be said that part of the costs of the commission are expected to be transferred to local self-government. I will warn here that of some 490 units of local self-government, so the municipalities, according to some data, are almost half, or 220 are below the threshold of self-sustainability, financial self-sustainability. Unfortunately, among the top 10 are those who have the majority Serb population and we are afraid that this additional cost of co-operation will lead to absolutely unsustainable, financial unsustainability of these local self-governments. Why do we feel that there are certain obstacles to the effective conduct of communications? First of all, we have a few things that we would like to apostrophe here, first capacitate, we have an agency that should be the bearer of the entire comcommissioning programme, and even in Article 30, it is said that the basis of a consensus of interest are public and previous discussions, meetings by local self-governments conducted by the agency. The question of whether the agency can do it, the question of the agency's capacitation and that kind of work. We think that it should be a purely advisory and control function, and that the county level should be the one that will carry the main initiative to carry out the commission. Here, they're just going to do one dipression, we've already had experience with warehouses in agriculture, we've got experience with stock exchanges that haven't worked, we're afraid that the concentration of this big deal on the agency will slow down the whole deal further. The second thing is the article 43, which speaks of the condition of the cataster, or land books. It's a key thing for us. The basic conjecture assumption is the orderly land library and the operative, and... it is a cadastre that leans with its data on land-based library, i.e. on grantovnica, i.e. on land-based book records. The situation is today in the Republic of Croatia next. The reform of land books covers everything according to some official data: 5.5% of the surface area of the Republic of Croatia, where the state of grantshops and catastra is also harmonised in 5.5% of the area. For 219 municipalities today there are no established land books, and 64 are in the process of rebuilding or new establishment. Examples are the next one we've already talked about, I'll do it again. 17 catastrian municipalities in the area of the Carlovakia County, the Municipality of Ogulin, Drežnica, Dubrava,..., Janja Gora. The land books on those premises were put out of force in '95. years haven't been formed yet. The village of Otjesic near Vrlika, the books have been unsettled since II. The World War and the overall view of the PPDS area, the area of special state care has absolutely unsettled land books, is then automatically and incoherently, unequal state with the disaster. We're asking a question, basically, how are we going to combine land that has no land-based book status? Those who deal with this kind of profession know that it's almost impossible. The other thing is, Article 48, which speaks of usurped property through the category of owners, long-time owners, I would say long-time usurper because if someone uses something that isn't his and even gets an incentive from the state, then it's for me as a lawyer of the category of land usurper, or a real legal usurper. Article 11 refers to the real situation as relevant to ownership. We are asking the question of what is really a situation in situations where people in northern Dalmatia,..., the characters, behind Zadar off-book owners for 200 years for a variety of formal legal reasons they have been off-book owners for 200 years, but are neat and peaceful owners since their grandfatherhood. It's about forests, meadows, orans that will be the subject of this commission. And to be an even worse situation on these plots, i.e. real estate is now registered to the Republic of Croatia as owner. In the 1960s, the citizens of the Straight Kotars lost their first country when the then government carried out a commission in favour of agricultural..., then the country was given to the peasants in exchange for poorer quality and without ownership papers. And on that land they re-entered the Republic of Croatia as the owner. We have, I could quote further examples from Benkovac, Glina municipality, etc., all over the country as the owner of private property. So, to this day, we have failed to resolve this formal legal injustice and bring people back to our property and property, and we intend to compose that same country. In favor of who? To whom shall we give and whom shall we take away the category of land that is usurped? The next thing I'd say here is that, that's a matter of thinking, that's an article 24 that says, which speaks of an expropriation fee, that's the basic question, how we've defined the amount of the fee to be granted, and that's how to meet the basic postulate of the commission to be satisfied with both the state in that process and the ones that are co-commassed, that is, by whom the country has been taken away and replaced with another parcel elsewhere. It's a very subtle question because getting into the country, in the country, in the fatherland, is one very dangerous thing and a socially very sensitive thing. The question also, here someone just mentioned, is how are we going to combine the country that was the subject of a programme available to agricultural land? 10 years has not expired which limits the right to dispose of this land, so these are just... land is owned by the Republic of Croatia, grant means library, how will the land that was the subject of the available programme be combined? Maybe well, maybe successfully I don't know, but it's not a small number of hectares, it's a whole project of the state and there's something special to say about this project. Finally, I would say something about the infringement provisions, Article 73 very explicitly punishes and warns against the high penalties of those who will prevent a participant from entering the property of the land that was assigned to him by the commission. All this would be good in some ideal relationship, but when we know this before I said that hundreds and hundreds of hectares are being usurped, where we have book owners who are not present here, and they haven't come back because they don't have where someone else is still using their land, it's logical to expect that such a process is being opposed, and we're threatening him with a fine of 50,000 kuna. So we punished him twice, once we took his land and enlisted in favor of the Republic of Croatia and the second time when we didn't let him rebel against it, we punished him and threatened him with a fine of 50 thousand kuna. I'm not saying that we should not always have threatened penalties to implement a certain legal text, of course we should, but in this matter we should have a measure, and since we are going to hit exactly one category here whose interests I am trying to represent for this speaker, trying to articulate and say that this society is not yet ideally prepared because of these formal shortcomings so that I don't say injustice on the ground, because someone's unworkable thing can be grantly and otherwise updated and arranged if anyone wants to. So we have one half situation that certain counties can successfully implement this project of co-operation, and we support it. And I also warn that there are places where the commission will be very difficult to implement, even in its final and negative effects by a specific category of population. In any case, in our first reading, we support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87235	Thank you. Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87236	Thank you very much. My colleague Horvat you mentioned one thing from the past, but they say it shouldn't be too much to mention, but it's good to visit sometimes because it's precisely those comments from the past that left a very bitter taste in people's mouths because after the massage they lost the country. The land went to the combined and was kidnapped. And now people are still looking suspiciously in some way, even though private property is still protected today and something like this should not happen, but then attack in another way is a big one, and then the little ones are basically losing the battle so systematically on the ground and so are doing all the time the laws. That's why I'm just thinking I've been looking at some conclusions and remarks and the Croatian Peasants' Union, they say this law should be based more on volunteering and encouraging, not on some repressive method of communication. And as for what you said that the agency should consult on the ground, I really agree that it should not be with you, I think it should, but to a lesser extent, I think that the Advisory Service should do the most of the work and do the field in cooperation with local self-government because, as we said, you speak and everyone has a lot of ambiguity, there are a lot of questions to be answered. When there will be a small question in this House, then surely the law will be much better.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87237	Mile Horvat's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87238	Thank you. My colleague Hrg, I fully agree with the conclusion that the land was previously well of general interest and this is the basic premise on what the process of communication should go on. It would be good if it could be formed in shape to be both voluntary and stimulating for a while. However, speaking of these examples of negatives from certain parts of the Republic of Croatia, I fear it will not be voluntary and stimulating. I said that the essence of the commission is for us to satisfy the interests of the state that are the primary general interests of the state while respecting the category of private ownership, which will be very difficult to reconcile in such a messy and disorderly ownership-legal relationship as they are today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87239	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87240	Thank you, Vice President. So, at one point in your debate, you said that in some parts of Croatia it will be very difficult to carry out a commission, in some other parts of Croatia it will be easier. So in this place where it's going to be a difficult basic reason it's going to be that private property is non-injurious. So the fact is that the Croatian peasant is emotionally related to the country, but what I want to do right now is to stress that private property and this emotionality, an emotional relationship with the country cannot be an objective alone because the fact that a large number of small agricultural producers have recently failed speaks precisely in favour of this conclusion that small agricultural areas cannot provide competitive production. So small agricultural producers have survived for the last 20 years, thanks to the fact that they were literally on state appliances, breathing devices, and I mean incentives and support. The moment this government came and changed its overall attitude towards agricultural production, so when it began to shut down these appliances, or significantly in the state budget, reduced incentives, small agricultural producers began to fail. The big ones that work with big agricultural areas don't fail, they thrive. So the commissioning of son qua non is a presumption or a basic element for further development and progress of agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87241	Mile Horvat, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87242	I thank my dear colleague, I would agree in one part with your debate, but then we would have to polymize about the situation of the peasants today, about the causes of such a position, you said that he is unfavourable for the category of small peasants, and then I could open up a debate here, which means today a small peasant, which is big, which is medium, we never said that. In the former system, 15 acres was maximum, so my uncle built two houses because apparently around him, about 15 acres worked a little bit better than around 150 acres does today, but I'm not doing it now. So the basic assumption is to carry out the commission, and we are absolutely for carrying out the commission because without it we can't, you said condicio son qua non-absolutely agree, but the assumption is that on the ground the ownership relations are being handled because we talked about the grantovnica, the e-gruntovnica, we talked about the cadaster, we talked about previous services that we didn't arrange, and now we threw this ministry a hot potato to make a strategic decision on the membership and some others haven't arranged what we were talking about back 2, 3 years. So I don't think the Ministry of Agriculture should be able to solve the problems I've been talking about, it should have been solved by another ministry and this ministry has a clean situation, and today it's here that we're presenting a political position, whether we're going into a commision or not. If we're going to spend it like that, if we don't go, we don't spend it like that. So what I've been saying is not about the work of this ministry but about the previous actions that some other services were supposed to do, in the end, by some other agency, some other state administrations in the county did and did not do. I could open a story here, and why they didn't do it, in the very places I was talking about, there were evil intentions, and maladies and everything else, I have documents about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87243	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87244	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, honourable ministers with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we've heard a lot about the proposal for a law on agricultural land, and I'm not happy to hear that there are both malicious remarks and malicious ones. I am in good faith and will discuss this law in the first reading and clearly that after the second reading we will also make a decision on how to promote this law. But I want you to take everything and my remarks well-intentioned, not in any way malicious, bad, or I don't know how. It is true that by massing, it comes or is driven into the circulation of land, to the arrangement of land surfaces, to the creation, and to say infrastructure conditions, starting from agricultural roads, meliorization, irrigation although unfortunately this latest irrigation in the Republic of Croatia is here and after three years and even after HDZ authorities have moved almost no steps forward, somewhere around 1.5% we have watered surfaces, let's say it's drastic, for example. Israel, which is half, 70% deserts but has much more watered areas than the Republic of Croatia. I hope that there will be a chance that there will also be a much higher percentage of the commission for irrigation. Unfortunately, this year we have irrigation and natural and harmful even. This should be expected, when we talk about agricultural areas and rounding up, to grow and develop agricultural production, which could then be measured or affected by agricultural production in other Member States of the European Union. Unfortunately now is the situation I would say catastrophic, you can hear it when you reach the peasants. There is no half-empty or half-full glass of statistics on this matter, but it is completely empty and it speaks of strong, strong imports, trend of imports, the growth of imports continues and the trend of exports which is the worst stagnating or even slightly falling, a copy of agricultural products. I will not read here about war cultures that are imported, exported or about the state of livestock, so pig farming is in the situation, we know that the decline in milk production, that the Croatian needs are about a billion gallons of milk a year, that now there is maybe half of us have about our production and half of the milk actually has to be introduced. We know that even to say it was for a while and selling and slaughtering cows that milkmen could not repay their loans and other obligations had to close their farms. All of this has contributed to the disastrous situation in agriculture in Croatia. There may be a silicone or Silicon Valley being transferred to Lica after the trip to the Americas of our prime minister, but we also have our golden valley and we have all of Slavonia, Srijem and Baranja, if we were to compose it here according to the law and if we were to spend no silicon sout Valley, etc. but we have our valleys. Thank God that after the intervention, after the intervention and after certain remarks and in the Strategy of Economic Development entered and agriculture, Mr. Minister knows but there is something else, it seems to me that we here today have a lot of these sharp little debates and perhaps they are and, I won't say unnecessary. Why do I say that? Well, because in July, the minister or ministry sent a rural development fund to Brussels, a rural development programme, including the commission that is currently being written here. There is still no news from the Fund about whether Croatia is approved, whether the money for carrying out a commission is said to be approximately 3,000 kuna per hectare in this material. So when we take 90,000 acres it's 270 million kuna. So there's a rabbit in the woods, and we're a piece of hair, we're sharpening, we're sewing, whatever we want. Is it okay, is it normal for the Croatian Parliament to discuss such an important topic, and that, in fact, still, perhaps something has arrived in the meantime, so we have no information about the financial structure to finance it. We trust, we are all talking about the European Union or the Rural Development Fund will finance it for us, mainly. I don't know, when it gets there, maybe there'll be news from Europe by the second reading, so we'll see what it's like, and then we'll decide on it in the second reading. I got here, and ours to tell the officials first of all from Osijek-Baranja County communicate with the minister any written route, so they were also at the consultation on the commission and they brought out I mean constructive proposals in order to arrange this matter. So here are some remarks that I received as a doctor, which were observed during careful consideration of this legal material or the bill, they delivered. So first of all we don't know, here's the story of how much we have a hectare of agricultural land. 700, 900, 550,000 agricultural land. Will we ever find out from what data exactly the agricultural land available in the Republic of Croatia? That's one thing. According to local self-government units, there are about 550 hectares. Well, we heard in earlier statements from the minister that it's a lot, a lot more. We have reported to the European Commission 750,000 hectares, to the European Commission, that we have that plus 50,000 hectares of meadows and pastures, and this is an oran of 750 000. Secondly, the main observation that the rural development programme of the Republic of Croatia, as well as that unfortunate strategy that went twice in Brussels last year, has not yet been agreed by the European Commission in the period 2014-2020, and we are already starting to regulate the Commission itself by law. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. What's the ratio? The ratio, therefore, is not defined, does not say. How many units of local self-government, how many counties, how many states. And then from the funds of the European Union funds, the funding of donations even. What donations, we had the other day when we were discussing women raped in the war that some donation fees would be paid, and the definition of donations is so hazy. Article 8 states that only if their owners agree to the use of vineyards, orchards, olive groves and ponds on agricultural land. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. As far as these surfaces are concerned, the size of that surface is not defined. It might be better to put some kind of one, if what the Bosnians would say is a duo, 1,000 m2 or a dozen acres or I don't know how many. So this formulation creates the possibility of arbitrary interpretation of that surface, less surface. So it's not defined. I'm saying this well-intentionedly because there may be a confusion and a misunderstanding in the field of communication. Furthermore, in Article 35, the Commission notes that, following the publication of a final decision on the initiation of a co-operation procedure with a local self-government unit or a regional self-government body, a contract establishing mutual rights and obligations in the implementation of the co-operation and the financing of the costs of cohesion is concluded. So the financial framework, the co-financing ratio is not defined, as I said before, so that, on the basis of which these mutual allocations will be carried out, therefore, the spending of the money for the commission. We know now that 65% of the lease belongs to the local self-government unit, 10% of the county and 25% of the state. Whether this same relationship will stay or be different is hard to say. But if that's 65% of the lease here, I've got an example. The town of Sikirevci, which I consulted the chief, told me that they have about 50 acres in the lease, so since the lease is 580 kuna per hectare, that is, 29000 have kuna per year from the lease. If that's 65% of the local self-government unit, that's 20,000, 21,000 kunas the municipality has. Will she be able to, with all the other obligations she has to finance and the part that belongs to this piece, it's hard to say. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth A representative body of the regional self-government unit is therefore responsible for the implementation of the commission and for the adoption of a solution under the provisions of this law. Now, the County Assembly determines the commission, the composition and the president who has five members, from the ranks of municipal judges and state administrations, and in particular the legal professions. This means that the county, the county assembly, determines someone who doesn't actually belong to some aspect of the county at all, and the county, so the County Assembly is responding and who will finance all this together. If there is, here is the secretary in paragraph 5, the secretary of the commission is appointed among state officials of the Office of State Administration. Even the secretary of the commission is appointed from the state administration and they are right to ask the county and the Croatian community has asked the question that the counties are given responsibility and they have no authority to exercise because there are no members from the county in the commission. The proposal is to appoint a competent authority for agricultural land or the Office of State Administration. It is questionable, therefore, and who administratively serves that body and to whom it suits. There is also the danger that the counties are being sued for those old cases from, from 30 years ago, what was the case and we have, it ended up in the Constitutional Court one lawsuit and the Constitutional Court said that the counties have no right. But later, in a conversation with the ministry representatives, and that is what happened to us, and we will say something about that point later, and these are points 71 and 72. So, it's about unfinished ones, unlisted etc., and based on the commissions that were conducted before the Homeland War. I won't say seventy-seven, eighty-seven, etc. when it was, and the others were, therefore, unimplemented procedures which would actually allow this commission to be made possible by that commission which was carried out in the earlier period to be recognised as a commission which was now carried out. Therefore, Article 71 deals with the costs of communication as far as they are concerned. Therefore, the eligible costs should also be the costs incurred or to be incurred in the procedures which have begun under the earlier applicable law, which are defined in Article 74. So, and that unfinished composition actually involves me saying it in some way. in this. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Bring the end.]] Anyway, the situation in agriculture is difficult, we all know we need them, much more necessary, and to say emergency measures, measures that would Let me just say a sentence. [[Invader Zgrebec: Thank you, colleague Boro.]] Which would prevent us from spending over five, six years on a co-operation, and she has no one to refer to. That's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87245	Thank you. The word was sought by Minister Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87246	I thank the esteemed vice presidents, respected colleagues and colleagues. Once again, nice greetings to all, given that I have some urgent obligations, I will have to leave after this debate, the deputy and team will remain here and listen carefully to all your good suggestions and suggestions. I felt the need to say some things I would like to say after these two discussions, i.e. to give the respected colleague Grubisic some additional information on the questions he gave, or the data he presented, and not exactly the real state, or the truth. Is, if we talk about the gradual increase in food and food imports in the Republic of Croatia in the thirteenth and fourteenth, it records growth. But what is not true is not true that the amount of agricultural products and food products from the Republic of Croatia is falling, or exports are about twenty or 21% higher with 17 to 18% higher. So this kind of ratio that we normally have of export coverage is moving on a multi-annual average between 55 and 60 percent. What I really wanted to correct is the data on milk production if you looked closely and looked for the data you will see that in the first six years it grows more than 6% as well as in some other productions. But yeah, it's a problem. The sector is whole, I've taken over on glass feet with negative trends and within a short time of two, two and a half years can't be done much. You asked me not to know how much agricultural land we have. We know, we know. The information system we published before and launched, the Agricultural Land Agency is a few weeks ago, says that the state agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia has a precise number and letters of 738125 and a half hectares. The same Agricultural Land Agency has worked three years before me in the term of office of the last government. Everything was done manually, on paper, and they didn't even have a database like this. From that we have even by cultures precisely defined by the county, by the way we have free land. In this way we have made transparent management and management of agricultural land. Rural Development Program. You mentioned him a few times in your discussion that we were making a skewer without a rabbit. The Rural Development Programme was sent to the European Commission in July for the official procedure and from week to week for consultations officially with administrations, with the Commission. The deadline within which the European Commission should respond and adopt our programme is half of January 2015 as well as for all other Member States no exception for Croatia is late here at any time. In fact, all the comments we get, and most importantly the DJ Agria, are actually positive. Our program that we've come up with with 16 measures, and one of the measures is also the measure that I've mentioned and that I'm going to refer to here again. This is the support for investment in infrastructure related to the development, modernisation and adaptation of agriculture and forestry is designed to enable commercial activities to be financed and carried out through that measure. The applicants are units of local self-government. In that part, co-financing of local self-government units is also foreseen through this law. What I must categorically interrupt immediately and reject any premise of repressive composing. It is the same story and the same ones that talk, which speak against the need to associate agricultural producers, against cooperatives, producer groups, organisations, clusters because we have had negative experiences in some post-war but then in the '40s, '50s related to the cooperative and association of agricultural producers or to the cohesion. One more thing, I see that the debate among some individuals is going in that direction, this is not a commission where the state takes the land and surrounds its surfaces with which it will dispose. This is a process which, in accordance with the multiannual plan, will then be followed by the annual cost-suming plans following the priorities and the cohesion clusters that will work to cover all natural and legal persons who want to join the commission. An example is a successful vegetable one even joined in a very good vegetable cooperative in Varazdin, for 15 hectares of vegetables on over 90 particles. More time and money and resources are lost by driving from parcel to parcel and fuel than they spend working on that plot. I think he's going to welcome this law and the possibility of rounding up his production. Not to mention that it will raise competitiveness with new irrigation systems and new technology that it will put on if it has land in two or three production units. So there's no repressive compression and it's not a commission to do this law so the state can circle its surfaces.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87247	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87248	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you just confirmed what I said. So we don't have an answer, we can wait until January, but so far there's no answer. I said it and it's true. From Europe in connection with the Rural Development and Financing Fund of this legislative proposal. Secondly, what you're trying to disabling me is a complete lie and you're not telling the truth. I have data for 2012 and 2013. So, imports are vegetables and google for food, so that's what's called professionally, right, it increased in 2012 from 105 thousand tonnes to 118 thousand tons, and exports from 14 thousand fell to 12 thousand tonnes. I don't know if that's for you to increase? I don't know, maybe it is. Furthermore, fruit for food, melons and agrumia exports in 2012 were 43,000 707 tonnes and 2013. Thirty-seven thousand. From 43 to 37, it's the same increase for you. Okay. Furthermore, fruit and vegetable products, 2012 was almost 16 994 tonnes of exports, and 2013. 13 435. Well, I don't know who's telling the truth or who's telling the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87249	Tihomir Yakovina, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87250	Your Honored colleague, you brought out product groups and compromised in 2012 and 2013. I believe in that data, I hope you used DZS data but then looked at total vegetation, livestock, or total agricultural production. In 2012, I only became a minister, in 2013, it was the year we joined the EU, which all analysts expected would be a market disturbance for two reasons. The 1st of July was no longer protected customs duties and... to imports, we became part of the internal market and there was no longer any additional protection from meat, from dairy products and all that we had towards EU countries, and on the other hand we lost the preferential trading conditions that we had for the traditional CEFTA market where we could export our agricultural products without any customs duty. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Even today, the commission, i.e. the EU, needs to negotiate with CEFTA countries conditions that will then apply to Croatia, are not finished negotiations and these conditions, we do not have standard terms of traditional trade with the BiH market in particular, which was 30 per cent export. I have no doubt about the data that you presented, you completed in 2012 and 2013, I was talking about data for the first 6 months of 2014 which differ. Statistics is statistics, we call on the same, look but you're talking about the whole group. Yes, the entire sector has been systematically destroyed for years, lived on support, lived without real reforms in the system, and now we are part of the common agricultural policy and we have the same rights and obligations and opportunities as farmers in the EU. And there's our possibility that, in fact, through a rural development program that you're saying wasn't formally adopted, it wasn't. Yes, for no EU country, no rural development programme has yet been adopted for any of the 28 countries. But we're sure that ours will be adopted and that's why we're already calling the competitions. A tender for measure 5.2 is being opened tomorrow. – the restoration of agricultural potentials and land related to disasters of the elemental disaster The 11th and 12th months are scheduled to take action 4.1.4.2 because the programme is good. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87251	Thank you very much. Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87252	Thank you very much. Well, I'm not really sure now who was talking about a million acres of state agricultural land when a new law was passed, was that coming from the promoter, or was that, Mr. Minister asking, or was that coming from the opposition here in the Parliament? I think it was said by the promoter that a million hectares of state agricultural land, and now the minister presented 738, 175.5 hectares. So here I am, Mr. Minister, really interested right now if it was the fact that a million where there's been so many hectares gone? Then we were saying right here that there are no million acres. And now, after a while, the amnesia came along, and we forgot it. I don't know who's against the association of agricultural producers, but I'm asking you, as Minister, how much of the resources you've given as an incentive to association, let's say, to that producer organisation that was founded in the nude, which Mr. Milinkovic spoke earlier. And as for this law and the debate that I'm talking about, and whether it's repression or whether it's supposed to be volunteering, my God, everyone would like to be volunteering, but we are, and I personally mentioned a few things that need to be thrown around and talked about. But here's a moment ago, my colleague Jelash said, when this government came and reduced the incentives, the small producers began to fail, and the big ones survived. So I'm really asking if perhaps we are rightly not afraid in which direction this commission is going?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87253	The reply to the replica of Minister Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87254	Dear colleague Hrg, the data you left for us at the agency was unsettled and did not become a database about how much state agricultural land we have. We've been talking about agricultural land distribution programs that had to be done by local self-government units, 75 of them in this country have no state land, 300 and something made them. Of the 75 municipalities and cities, they never made and fulfilled their legal obligation and at least that we had that information. Well, based on the availability program, it accumulates, so let's see what it is. For the first time, we have a real base that is consistent with both the Payment Agency and the DGO with all relevant institutions from where we could withdraw land information. When we talked, and we didn't talk about the debate and the law didn't say a million hectares, we talked about at least a million hectares of unprocessed agricultural land, which includes state agricultural land that is not available but also private land that is not available in large quantities for agricultural production. According to indicators, which this year, i.e. 2013 and 2014 were done by the Agricultural Land Agency but for the mandate we will make a cut and compare to those 262 000 hectares you put in 10 years of age under the old law, in any form of availability. I'm sure what we've drawn out and this part of the dynamics as it is, under the new Land Law, that figure is going to be much bigger. And this is the exact number of hectares of agricultural land and culture, and in ways, and by units of local self-government. I wish my predecessors and your colleagues who ran the Department of Agriculture had done it a long time ago. As for this Cooperation Act, 25 years ago, how many governments we've had since 91, and how much you've been participating or running the Department of Agriculture. This law did not come in the meantime to this esteemed home. We will appreciate all the good comments, all the good suggestions until the second reading, but I will not allow demagogy and politics and the fear of agricultural producers with something we give and do for the sole benefit of agricultural producers. Once again, I say the commission will take place within the commercial process and between agricultural producers not only as you try to say between the state and the agricultural producers at the expense of the agricultural producers. This law was exclusively developed in the interest of agriculture and agricultural producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87255	Thank you. Thank you very much. Ministers for you are also worth the time. On behalf of HNS representative Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87256	Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with Associates, I will begin by saying that the Croatian People's Party Club will surely support this proposal in the first reading and would certainly propose to both the promoter and all colleagues and all clubs that this very important law be passed by consensus because this is one of the most important measures in competitive and economic agricultural production. I'd like to get into the introduction before I move on to this law to touch some information that is interesting for our listeners, and I think for my fellow MPs. One third of the world's population is working in agriculture and therefore I see that the importance of this law is very much because it can give the Republic of Croatia a certain and great chance. Because of the large number of inflows of the population, the world was numbering 2.5 billion people in 1950, and that road fell from the total area to the head of the population of 0.5 hectares per capita. In 2000, the world numbers 6 billion inhabitants, the road is 0.3 per capita and the population is projected by 2020. 7.5 billion inhabitants where only.200 hectares per capita will be lost. What turns out to be a fertile country and water is that they are one of the world's most important resources and there is no reason not to be in the Republic of Croatia. That's why you go into business, so clearly says Article 4 when you go into business. So there's no such thing as arbitraryness that a proposer can go for no reason. Article 4 defines exactly when it is to be taken into account and Article 5 defines when it is not to be gone. What is going on in the Republic of Croatia is that Croatia has 14 million cadastar particles, and there are 4 million and 300 thousand or maybe something less. Now imagine what this relationship is, and that's one of the reasons why our production in agriculture is uneconomical, uncompetitive because small small possessions don't give competitiveness. I would touch and present the data that has been provided by the academics Tomic, and I believe that they are correct, that in the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia has 2 149 080 hectares, that 1,316,000 are currently being used from these working areas and that 833 000 hectares have not been used. Is this unusable even because of petty possessions? I guess so. I'm saying, a land-grassing or deforestation is an agri-law measure that is implemented for the purpose of rounding land particles for a more rational agricultural production. Land circulation is carried out if, due to the high land fragmentation, agricultural production cannot be organised in a quality and competitive manner. What's the big deal? The commission is primarily important because of more economic production because with a smaller number of particles the owner, the one that processes has fewer and less transport costs. In addition, the commission brings quality land to a more favourable position, because if family farms are competitive, this time and staying in those areas is safe. This is where agricultural roads, roads,... facilities, channels, dams are arranged, lands where rinks are located, where possible streams and all that is important for more quality, more competitive production. What's most important is that there's ownership and other real legal relations on land. The parties in the procedure are owners of land, land users of social property and tenants. It is rather unusual that the Republic of Croatia has failed to comply with this law for 24 years, probably because of the complexity and importance of this law, the ministry and the government have so far not decided on this procedure. Here, we as a political party in any case support and do not need to go megalomanic because the Republic of Croatia does not have enough resources to arrange 300 thousand working surfaces or to circle in 2 or 3 years. If the Republic of Croatia had so much money, believe me, it wouldn't be a problem for this job to be done in a short time. What is also important is that in the Republic of Croatia from Mary Teresa or from Francis Joseph to 1862 to 1991, 800 thousand hectares were rounded up. That still one large number of procedures that were conducted under the old Law on Land Circulation or on the College of 1979, which was completed in 1987, that a large number of proceedings were not completed. It is also good that this new law in Article 74 provides that these procedures which are not completed that can be..., we also consider it to be certainly good. What is most worrying and essentially opening up the biggest problem, the unknown is that the inconsistency of catasters and land books or their consistency is only 3%. So, this is not just a job that is related to one ministry, that it is one job that has synergy to do several ministries because the issue of success depends on the competitiveness of Croatian agricultural production. The commission itself is a complex business and the law should be as simple and as efficient as possible. What is good is that both the most significant and the most representative body of the Croatian Parliament is involved in the commission, that the Croatian Parliament brings into the 5-year plan of membership, that it is good, that it is, that it will be known exactly when it is brought, it is brought by the Croatian Parliament, which... municipalities are going to do, in which way rounding will be done. What is also important is that each year, at the beginning of the year or at the end of one year for another, the government brings a programme of membership in the following year. It is also clear in this law that the largest and most significant part of the business is carried out by the Agricultural Land Agency. There are already colleagues in their quality discussions who have touched a lot of problems that the commission does not include, and that is the question of succession, and it certainly needs to be done with other legal decisions and other laws. What is particularly important, and this is important for local self-government units, that due to the difficult financial situation of local self-government units, no one can impose a financing obligation, so it is necessary to see that the entry of the commission goes with the closed financial structure because the units of local self-government cannot do so in this financial situation. I don't want to talk about the part, how the course is going, and how the plans are done, but I'd like to touch a few articles that we think are important. Article 3 where it says that the commission is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia, thus also to all political parties that are participating in this House, and therefore I would like this law to be adopted to the greatest extent in the consensus. I would also comment on Article 8 of Article 1 of Article 2 to seek consent, where several-year cultures are designated, where all owners are asked to consent. This is primarily related to islands where there are a large number of owners who are not already in contact with that property, and they can make a significant provision, and certainly that part, that article would have been a good thing to do with the decision of most owners who are in the Republic of Croatia, so that they can make a decision about it, but they would suggest that we see such a possibility because individual owners with one family are located from Australia, New Zealand, South America, and Western Europe will be difficult if there is no consent, so we should certainly find some easier form. They would also refer to Article 18 of which is referred to when it comes to the commission that a participant cannot get less than 80% of the quantity of hectares and more than 120. I think that part should make it more clear because it's basically a big difference whether you get 10 acres 8 or get 12, I think that border might be a little too big. Given the amount of money the Republic of Croatia has and that this process will certainly be longer, it would certainly be a good thing that Article 22 says that a replacement of agricultural areas is possible only when there is a commission. Our party's proposal to see that it is essentially the fastest interest of the OPG if he can find his neighbor that they are particles, I don't know in the same catastrian community that they can replace each other. Now it was possible but only as a sale. Here we should allow the same conditions that are in the balance if it's for... countries only the real costs that they had that didn't go like real estate traffic. I think that in such a way we would allow a part of the OPG in its interest to replace particles without it costing him too much, and that he himself would get his particle which is bigger because that way he would be more competitive. I'll just say that in the county plan from which I come is about 276 hectares of farmland. From that, there should be a commission of 64 thousand hectares. I think that if we are aware enough of the situation in agricultural production and the situation in the family economies that we could certainly complete this process long before it was planned to be somewhere over 20 years in the long term. Because the competitiveness of agricultural production and economics depends first and foremost on the rounding of land. What we would also warn about for this job that will come to the agency is needed by new workers. Yes, but given that there is a surplus in the public administration, it should certainly be taken into account that this is not a new cost, but that I do not know from the portfolio from the Ministry of Spatial Planning, from the State Administration, from the Ministry of Agriculture, is that essentially these are all professional persons to form this team because they would essentially disburse these ministries and get here and at quality. The HNS will support this law because we believe it is an important segment of the development and competitiveness of agriculture or the CAP.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87257	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87258	My colleague Mandic, here I am actually grateful to you for mentioning one very important thing in the introduction of your presentation, you said that the number of inhabitants of our planet is increasing, but unfortunately Croatia loses one smaller city year after year. The Croatian village with all the laws you mentioned until the 1980s slowly died. We have a situation that our great cities have become both vacuum cleaners and people and money, and from the village we have what we have left. It all reminds me, but also this way of passing the law on some composition of the train to be picturesque where one axle has already come out of the rails and if that train doesn't stop and put the composition together, it can happen that the whole sun is going to happen. Here I also think of the demographic structure, here I also think of those laws that have been passed recently here where Gorski Kotar is deprived of income for reasons of taking down the mountain-mounted status, and above we have enough land for the cosmitment, abandoned villages, empty towns, municipalities, reduced budgets, and we are going back to what we have been saying from the beginning. So this law should be passed but passed by law in a way that is followed by all other laws, primarily those relating to tax policy, those relating to the Law of Property, our judiciary, and the State Catastrian Administration. That's what I've been talking about, and a lot of us have been warning about that problem. We will continue to lose years and years by solving the banal problems of property relations because the long-standing laws are not in this sense directed to see things this way. This composition, which is already before jumping out of the rails if it doesn't work out, stops completely designing a new strategy, and on the issue of particularly demographic renewals that you have cited will be major problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87259	Thank you. Ivica Mandic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87260	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague, I agree that one of the most important issues or question of all questions is demographics. The Republic of Croatia has tried its independence with various measures, but apparently these measures still do not produce results, and I still fully agree with you. But given the state of affairs that it is in the industry or industrial economy that it will still not be raised so quickly to the level we want, I believe that this process of living in rural areas should certainly be the ministry with its measures, and especially the EU has a mass of measures that enable people to return to those areas. The situation in the country must have wanted to or did not want to change significantly because each of us in the first, second or later third generation is bound to the village and we have certain sentiments towards the village. But the village and the family economy that are operating will have to be finished in a market match with quality, quantity, competitors to the world. We consider the potentials that we have and the space and quality land, the unpolluted water that should only be welcomed at that time and that the number of family economies dealing with agricultural production will still go, the next 10 years will stagnate. It's inevitable because only the strongest, the strongest, the most competitive remain. Once again, one obligation for the Republic of Croatia to and part of these family economies that are older is that it is better to find some measures and this land that they have to share with people who will be competitive. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87261	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the New Wave and Independent Representatives Baranovic, Martincevic, a colleague of Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87262	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, the esteemed deputy with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Our club will absolutely support this draft law in the first reading it is a dry need for further development and agriculture and investment, investment and the entire sector of agricultural production itself. However, no matter who's responsible for what we are here today and why this law hasn't been all this time, the fact is one. This law that we are now discussing, which is just now coming to the agenda, shows a rough truth which is that we have entered the European Union completely unprepared. And the country is a substrate for agricultural production. Therefore, our farmer with half a hectare or several hectares cannot be competitive to a standard farmer who has 20 hectares of land and that is the standard in the European Union and that is the problem. And that's the problem. And that is why this law should be passed as soon as possible, shortened this procedure until the second reading, of course very dynamic and debate, public debate and all concrete proposals included. But we, that's what the vice president already said sometime in 2005 we started with pilot projects. After 10 years, here it will be next year for 10 years we have completed one project. What's the indicator? That we can't deal with that problem at all. Indeed, until we have settled the country, the agricultural land will not be an agricultural investment, until we round the country there will be no investment, there will be no development of agriculture, and not only does it stimulate an increase in agricultural areas, it sort of solves the issue and social policies of those farmers, the elderly farm housewives who simply have no more power to deal with agriculture, and should in any way enable them to receive a certain pension for that land. I've already said in replicas that solving property legal relations is the key to the story. Here, several times the number of 3% of the cataster's compliance with the land-book situation was highlighted. I am here, since we do not have a business option is not 3% of the harmonised land-book and cadastrian state in the Republic of Croatia, much more surfaces are harmonised. You have the whole of Istria harmonised the catastrian land-book, you have Međimurje harmonised, the Varazdin region is fully harmonised, part of Slavonia is harmonised, part not, part of Dalmatia is not harmonised, therefore, Zagreb is your total chaos, so there is only one catastrian municipality of Trnja harmonised everything else. Therefore, you have a lot of, a lot of space for the implementation of this commission, of course there should also be implementing rules where this membership will be carried out, it is not the same to carry out a commission I do not know in Zagorje and carry out a commission and Slavonia. Therefore, you will lose much more time in Zagorje. So that's where a smart strategic policy should be made, and when it starts with the law where it will first start to be implemented. It's interesting and in some ways it's a rough truth but it's so that all those procedures that started in '79. The years that stopped there in the '90s, '91. The year will be completed under the provisions of the new law. Now you can imagine how many proposings have already left this world since then. I would, if you allow me to make some concrete proposals as a contribution to making the law much more concrete, Article 25 paragraph 1 provides that services and real burdens are to be deleted after the division of the communicative clusters to non-commission participants and, if necessary, given the new distribution of land, the legislator may establish new services, burdens and restrictions on ownership rights. I would suggest here that you put this "can be founded" in "must be established", absolutely must be established if they were becoming they must be re-founded until they are abolished. Therefore, it should be entered in the land books at the same time as the implementation of a powerful solution on cohesion. In this case, Article 59(2), which determines what a solution to cohesion must contain, should be amended. It should be added that the real burdens and that right of service pass by this same powerful solution are recorded on the newly formed real estate, not just to delete them. You can't write the services being erased and what about them. The services must remain. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions apply: I don't think it could be without the written consent of landowners, so in the process of co-operation it should also be given the consent of landowners to do so. We can't just prescribe it. And then, in that case, in a decision on membership, it should be determined that, in the event of payment of a fee in cash on real estates which are subject to the commission and on which the mortgage is entered, the fee should not be paid to the owner of the land but to the creditor, of course, with the consent of the owner of the land. I think it's clear, right? Article 39(2) determines who may be the real estate auditors which are subject to the commission, and here you are saying that they are persons who have a pre-graduate and graduate university study or an integrated undergraduate and graduate university study or a specialist professional study of agricultural professions, but in any case they should be persons who, in my opinion, have been appointed by the court as court experts and assessors and these agricultural professions, of course. So from what you've suggested, it's not visible at all what you thought was authorized to evaluate the property, and I think it would be a good idea that in the future, there would be no confusion, that there would be an authorised judicial assessor of the agricultural profession. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. In addition to these remarks, the solution should also contain a provision in which the ZK service or department of the municipal court will make enrolment in land books. Whether the same solution with the rightful solution will be provided and proof of payment for confiscated property or evidence that the owner has given in exchange for another land or will simply be carried out on the basis of a valid solution. These are important things, and that's why I'm going back to that initial thesis from the replica I was saying there, until the second reading, it would be good for us here to have a set of legislative proposals and when it comes to the Law on Heritage and when it comes to the Law on Agricultural Land and when it comes to amendments to the Law on Land Books and the Law on Property and Legal Relations. It just has to be part of a package that we're going to sort of discuss together, then that makes sense. This way you just go out with this law in the first reading without all these other accompanying things that just have to be built in this direction that goes by the law won't make any sense. But here, until the second reading, we expect important shifts and we support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87263	Thank you. Replica, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87264	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Škare-Ozbolt, in your presentation, it seems to me that Mr. Mandić is about the total amount, i.e. the total area of the harmonised land book and real estate cadastre in the Republic of Croatia, saying that more than 3% of the surface of the Republic of Croatia is harmonised on the ground with the cathedral and land book. In the Republic of Croatia, about 3500 catastrian municipalities and 350 of them carried out a new cadastrian measurement, which is about 10%, but out of these 350 catastrian municipalities, a public insight, a restored cadastre and a renewed land book was carried out in the 100th century. This information would suggest that 3% of the entire area of the Republic of Croatia is spoken of. However, I agree with you, many more areas of the Republic of Croatia have been harmonised, and a land book with a situation on the ground for reasons, because this coordination was not only done where a new measurement was made, where a new cadastre was created, where a land book was created, rather than a number of administrations or cataster offices throughout Croatia were performed by harmonising the situation on the ground, i.e. land books and cadastres with the situation on the ground and without a new measurement being made. In that sense, your correction is correct, so more land is curated, and especially agricultural land is a harmonised terrain with a disaster and a land book.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87265	Replication response, Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87266	Thank you, colleague Bačić, for having explained a little bit to your colleagues next to me. However, what I want now, somehow you've suggested to me, so all the time I'm saying is that we need to speed up and not just make this bill, but also cut deadlines. It is this harmony, regardless of the ownership relations within the registered owners who are of any kind, that gives a chance to open up a much more commercial process in many places, and that these commercial procedures go much faster. The very harmony gives us a great chance. Of course, when you open a land-book sheet, a property sheet, so when you see who the owners are from 100 years ago, so you need to do them up to today, then you get hurt. But that's the situation in Croatia, we're a rich country rich in real estate with catastrophic property registrations. Therefore, this harmony itself is a good basis for the commission to be launched in a lot more places where, of course, these data and land-booked conditions with the Catastre are fully aligned, and that is more, far more than 3%.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87267	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. My colleague Mirela Holly is not present, so she's losing her right to debate on this wheel. Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87268	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, dear Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So here is listening to this debate, but we all know that the fact that Croatian agriculture is plagued by many problems, many problems, and whose causes we know more than ever. But let me start by doing a brief review at the beginning of my debate, which is why we're in the situation we're in. It's primarily a lack of vision in the 1990s that with agriculture. So, we were faced with the situation when the big globular peaks started to fall apart, when privatisation started when the state had no clear strategy or vision of what it would do with small farmers who primarily existed as co-operatives of large IPKs and other ways, or many of them existed as agricultural producers, but had no significant land potential, or had no large land, and they did so exclusively as some added value to the already existing work. So they were employed by certain companies, and agriculture was done as additional work. I have to conclude, unfortunately, that we also encouraged certain projects and programs that were already known to be doomed at first. For example, setting up small farms now of 20, 30 head of cattle. It is, therefore, if we talk about dairy and the like, we encouraged a branch of production that we knew would not be able to be a competitor, which we knew in advance that it would not be able to manage on a bulky market, that it would not be able to perform on its own. Because in every economic activity, so in agriculture, circumnavigation is the key. Whether they are carried out by clusters, whether they are carried out by associations, is now less important. But, unfortunately, our mentality of clustering, rounding, mechanizing cooperatives and so forth are not welcomed exactly as is necessary among our producers. I cannot blame them on one side because they have very bad experience from previous systems when cooperatives were carried out violently, but they did not produce the results they expected. Certain political elites at a given time were in the interest of preserving this status quo, i.e. we have a situation where many agricultural economies actually have more social than production character, where the structure of agricultural producers, therefore they are mostly old people who live with a relatively small piece of land and which, as I said, have a social character. So people work the country to survive something literally, not to practice, perform on the market and so on. And yet another problem I'm afraid we haven't yet given sufficient importance to this problem, or we haven't problemed it, even though it's not a concrete ally. The problem is the education of agricultural producers. So we have a situation where most agricultural producers are not sufficiently educated as far as agricultural activity itself is concerned, but often my work to say so is based on the principle of experience, tradition, what they learned from parents who were also engaged in agriculture, etc. However, if we are talking about agriculture as an income activity that one wants to live on, then it must also have an appropriate educational basis. I'm not saying that in terms of maybe some formals, let's call it so academic titles and so forth, but certainly it should, that today agricultural producers must be much more educated than they should have been before. What I am very sorry to argue is that during the morning debate, I have heard a lot of politicizing and I am sorry that the debate on such an important issue for agricultural producers comes down to this, from the transfer of guilt to the constant insistence that someone's proposal is heard or not heard. Well, for God's sake, this law is in first reading. I believe that by the second reading some of the proposals here will be appreciated. So, I'd wait for another reading until we get to such discussions. Farmers need solutions, not floscules and demagogy, and I think that I can safely argue and that's what this law offers them. Compassion as such is part of the solution. As the minister mentioned in the debate earlier, this time it is not a matter of, otherwise in the country today, there is a very negative sound. When you say "commission," it's something that won't be welcomed very well. However, this is not about co-operation, as the minister said rounding up state particles, but about a combination that wants to help farmers and farmers so that they can be competitive on the market. Therefore, in my opinion, the Law on Cooperation is part of a solution to at least one of these problems that I was just talking about. Therefore, the implementation of the commission is a prerequisite for strong and arranged agriculture. Land policy as such must be the basis of efficient and competitive agriculture because, if I am not mistaken and Vice President of the House said the land is a basic resource in agricultural production, therefore it is logical. My colleague Skare-Ozbolt was talking about the arrangements of our land books. There I will agree with her that they depend on the part of Croatia either more well or less. The fact, however, is that last year we also passed laws aimed at the construction of both cadastrian books and grantshops and a general list of state property. Because we were faced with one fact that the state didn't know what she had, she didn't know what she had, let alone that she could use it. If I'm talking about land then land, if we're talking real estate and real estate. It will, of course, also lead to the rationalisation of the business of agricultural producers. So the larger land particle itself suggests that it will have less costs, above all manipulative, that it will have the possibility of better infrastructure. Therefore, they will be paid to connect to irrigation systems and similar infrastructures needed for agricultural production if they have larger parcels. We already had situations when the irrigation infrastructure was built. You have in Slavonia several such cases, however there were no users. And why weren't there any users? First of all, because each soil is not suitable for irrigation or any culture but also because of relatively small possessions, it is not worth paying for all the infrastructure needed for irrigation. Otherwise, irrigation is not the solution to all agricultural problems. But what I'm saying is that if the manufacturers had larger particles, such infrastructure operations would be worth it and I believe that they would be much more encouraged to engage in similar things. To conclude, I would like to welcome the ministry's insistence to consult and expand the public and manufacturers and experts. As I have repeated this is the law in the first reading, until the second reading he will surely experience certain changes. I'd like my court final, so I'd like to appeal to my colleagues on the other side of the assembly, save and book until the moment we see the law in the second reading. In any case, support of the law in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87269	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87270	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Hajdukovic, I am very sorry, you said in one part that farmers do not expect floscule and demagogy, and you have just started your exhibition with demagogy saying that in the 1990s the government did not have a vision of agriculture. In the 1990s, the government had a vision because it had a vision of how to free Croatia from the aggressors. '98. The year of counterpart Hajdukovic, if you remember, Croatia ended the war. She remained burned, robbed cattle, mined land, destroyed everything that was destroyed. In the '90s. So so far it's been your government twice, so we'd say 8 years in total. As far as agriculture is concerned, all you've done is destroy it mildly. And in this period, my colleague Hajdukovic, I have to say, and I am sorry to have to talk about this law in this way, but you have challenged yourself, today we repeat again you would not talk about European funds, nor about the EU nor about anything. And it's sad that you can talk about it, that 20 and 30 throats of cattle is nothing. Excuse me, when a farmer has 20 or 30 head of cattle or dairy cows or tow cattle, he can live very well if he is provided with conditions, you know. And we wouldn't have talked about all this if it hadn't been for the support. Today finally says the minister we know how much agricultural land we have, in 2012, you were so prepared to scream here that there are millions of hectares. You forget the ARCOD, you forget everything that's been done. It's sad, it's demagogy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87271	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87272	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, colleagues, yes, flossula and demagogy when we talk about some strategic issues. The first thing you remember is the Homeland War. Yes, I remember the Homeland War very well. Yes, my colleague, I am of origin from an area that has been affected by this very Homeland War. Yes, my colleagues, I know very well what the Homeland War has done to our peasant and our village and our agriculture. Okay, aggression, whatever you want, or aggressor, call it whatever you want, but I know very well, and I remember very well. [[Twilight: Not Homeland War, but aggression.]] You're saying the ratio is 8 years is my party in power, and then what about 16 of those where you were? You had a vision, so I don't see the results of that vision of a colleague. Where are the results of that vision? The results are where they are, that's why we're where we are, and that's why we bring these laws with 20 years of delay. I can understand and understand, of course, that in the 1990s our absolute priority was to defend and release occupied territories but it can't be an excuse for all the bad things that happened in Croatian agriculture but everywhere else. I'm afraid not. And when we talk about secured terms and the government's role is to ensure conditions. And how did you secure them? So buying social peace, giving 40 lips of incentive per liter of milk, so as it goes, it goes. But that's irresponsible, fellow.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87273	Now we'll be on break by 3:00. And the first in line will be in the individual debate of counterpart Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87274	Our colleagues and colleagues are continuing to discuss the proposal for a Law on the COMMACATION of Agricultural Land. Marijan Škurić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87275	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, in this individual debate, I'm not going to look back so much on the course, the purpose and purpose of this Cooperation Act anymore. I would first of all like to look back on how this law has the possibility of applying that law in practice. It's true that you don't really get into a situation just because of the fact that this peace is in force and that this is not the law that we all want, that we all need, and we're never going to be able to implement it in the end. To be the result of all these activities, there are basically three specifics per me, which is that we have people who know how to do it, that we know and we have a good procedure to realize these things and, of course, it's always about certain financial resources. Speaking of people in that section, it is defined that the agency will build multiannual and annual programmes, and for the purposes of drawing up plans, the agency will establish a special design unit and write 15 employees. I suggest that the sequence of these activities and procedures that I said fall virtually to a large level of multidisciplinaryism. Let's define that, which was even said in the debate of 15 employees, let's take them as much as we need, but let's take 5 from the Ministry of Agriculture, let's take five from the Ministry of Justice, if it's largely covering the amendment of many laws that I'm going to say, let's take five from the Ministry of Finance, because it also concerns largely the amount of EU funds and also the Law on fiscal responsibility and other things. Let's take another 5 from, say, the Ministry of Construction and the spatial arrangement that's going to watch what this whole space will look like afterwards. Then we'll have existing people and people with experience who know, we can't take the trainees, and then we can use that million and four hundred thousand kuna more to support a certain level of activity that we still need. Of course, I always see that this could help us within the local administrations and self-government of any cities, the municipalities being also the county. Here, too, would be mentioned again about the part of the funding that we are talking about, that really the funds needed to implement this programme must be and be provided in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, the budget of the units of local regional and regional self-government and also EU funds, grants and other funds, etc. But speaking of the funds of the local administration budget unit to make this programme sustainable and enforceable, then you know that we must have these resources planned in cities and municipalities. If we don't have them planned, it means that if in that current year we don't know if that program is going to go, then we have to or if we don't, then we have to wait for the next budget year. Rebalance you know what it means, calling a session of municipal and city councils, it can also be called together every three months at the latest in that part, and that's all it takes. We need to look at this to be more operational in a way that these units of local self-government or the maximum freedom that you said you could do, pay and participate in such activities or certain amounts where already in advance for areas that could provide those resources to get us on the operational and speed of decision-making to participate in that and such a programme would also refer to Article 8. where in paragraph 2 it says that direct commissioning can also be carried out without the consent of the owner if it comes to cadastral particles of smaller surfaces. It's very disputable, I speak from practice, let's say 1000 square meters of surface in Slavonia is practically nothing, but 1000 square meters of me in Zagorje is very much, relatively much. In this regard, he would suggest that these matters should be defined more specifically as far as the surfaces themselves are concerned. In what way, I don't know about the debate but maybe even about the size of a half a hectare to see what kind of... or the percentages of the total surface, which are in some way covered by that combination itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Article 18 really points out what is important and that the commission is carried out so that each participant gets a new land, as little particles as possible and in equal value, well quality, and I think that should remain and define how this can be uniformly defined. In Article 29, where a process of carrying out a commission is defined and defined what an idea project must contain. Immediately the first point, a justification for the economic justification of the commission. Today when we are... in the debate here so I think that... as a result of the cases... the marking of what is the justification of the commission, so I don't think we should define for every compromise procedure in that section but I think that we can make for Croatia a single explanation of the economic justification that can then be an integral part of the idea project, because of the operationality if each time it does a smaller project, there must be someone who will do it, who will accept it, we must conduct public debates, etc., etc. Again, it's the thing that I think we can define in a one-off way... which is the economic justification of the commission. When I talk about Article 30, this is one of the important things that would be... in the future, which is that when a comcommissioning procedure is launched, the agency convenes a set of owners and landowners to whom other than the owner and landowners invite all representatives of units of local and regional self-government and other interested persons. Well, I think that's the key to everything. Why? This is, defined by intent, defined by transparency, defined by the public that everyone can say their opinions, and there's a start to even see the justification of whether anything has the basis to go on or not. If there's a big resistance in that part, then it's... it's something to do at all. From the experience we have in Zagorje, the massage... the years that have been spent, none of them have been carried out that they haven't had axes and shovels and motor chickens, etc. Unfortunately, that's the thing that's supposed to keep people quiet, if that's what people want or don't want, it's up to them to decide, after all. Article 31, where it is also defined in that section, that the prior consent of the Central Authority is necessary in a way that the proposal for the implementation of the comcommissioning procedure together with the idea project is requested by the central authorities of the State Administration responsible for that part. That takes six opinions. From my experience, if you're looking for one consent and with that agreement one opinion, in these 30 days, it's practically like that movie, "The Impossible Mission," that you get it. Let's put these six opinions within 30 days, and then another 30 days can be taken by the agency to deliver it to the state administration responsible for agriculture. This is an absolutely short period for those opinions, all of this and... the days, those 60 days are hard, but let's just put it on to at least be that. It's a reality. This is for me, what I said was an impossible mission. Also, what we have already said about the financing itself, Article 35, that indeed we in the city administrations of local and county should know sooner in the current year or before the current year that we can plan these funds in our budgets. Now in Article 36, what I said about the previous statement that according to the provisions of this law, the representative body of the unit of regional and regional self-government, i.e. the city of Zagreb, has appointed a county commission. Now, in my opinion, the same problem will be because it says so even on the proposal of the central government. If he had a proposal from the central authority of the state administration, then if you're asking for the opinion of the presidential body, which is again the county assembly or municipal and city council, again I believe we can be in a blockade for a very long time. I suggest that, on the proposal of the central office, only the executive body, and it is the mayor, the mayor or mayor, I think that there are legal grounds, can confirm such a choice, to be much..., much faster, and what someone says, and we didn't know, we knew, we knew because we had already had a public debate about it, and... by this and as mayor and mayor we must give reports to our congregations, or municipal and city councils what we are doing, so there is transparency and..., and we have achieved it in some way and speed. My general opinion is to settle this, there must be as few steps in that final decision to resolve the commission. Which will be more involved, from the experience we discussed today that no one wanted to deal with it for 20 years, that we must and as... all take responsibility and really try and solve it. And yet another in connection with Article 41, expert geodetic work must be done by authorized persons... jobs. The geodites in the catastrian service should be the ones who should be doing it. And finally, we need to do three more things. First of all, in other legal acts, if we do in a field of cohesion that we can no longer share that land, what we said, not the law of succession, we have to ban it, block it. The other side that has yet to appear, we have had an example, but we have made one beautiful pill, and then we have concreted, can neither turn it into a space for..., or for... zones and third, you have to help us to spend further rounding of land on the local administration for which we finance this... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87276	Time, fellow Skuric. Bring the end. Thank you. Next up for discussion, Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87277	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I'm actually going to pick up where my colleague Skvarić stopped because about all of us who come from local self-government agree on the same thing because we're with the same problems every day. Therefore, all that enters into private property and all that concerns agricultural land is a particularly sensitive issue in which transparency of procedures and decisions is important. The agricultural land industry is of great importance to agriculture, it is important to increase the competitiveness of Croatian agricultural producers. We all know that. We can all figure that out. However, the proposal for a law on cohesion, which is ahead of us, raises concerns, a certain sense of uncertainty, shows that there is no trust in local self-government, and the farmers for whom the law is passed have been placed on the sidelines of the whole process. The experience of other countries in carrying out the commission shows that the success of the commission depends on initial steps and obtaining support from farmers and other interested parties. And that's exactly what this proposal of the Cooperation Act is starting to be wrong. The Central State Agency, the Agricultural Land Agency, is developing strategic documents brought by the Parliament and the Government, designing an idea project of co-operation. The agency also deals with private companies that pay both local and regional self-government and all taxpayers. The Agency shall issue a final decision on the start of a commission in one area, meaning that such a solution cannot be declared either by appeal or by an administrative dispute. And until then, there is no mention of farmers their aspirations and needs. The county commission also proposes the Ministry of Justice, a full centralisation of decision-making and enforcement procedures. This causes justifiable fear among all future members of the commission. I suggest we take a look at the experiences of neighbouring Slovenia. In Slovenia, 67% of landowners must agree with the proposal to launch the commission and then the other owners have no right to stop the process, and with us landowners are not asked except the owners of permanent plantations, but the larger ones are not the smaller ones. But the law does not say who determines what are small and what are large orchards and vineyards. In expert analyses in Slovenia, they found that private companies that carry out commercial activities that should be agreed with us by the Agricultural Land Agency are one of the weakest points of communication. So, with us, only the Agricultural Land Agency could launch a commission procedure, and this right is not done by farmers or local self-government, for example. in Slovenia, possibly. The experiences of other countries in the implementation of cohesion are different, but generally there is a clear disseminating responsibility for overall control and monitoring and responsibility for implementation. That was not done in this bill. In terms of funding, it is not entirely clear who will finance what is and it is unacceptable to define it in the programmes and that, after the agreement of the Agriculture Land Agency, a contract with the municipality or the city of financing is concluded without talking about what is already very much in the replicas and discussions that it is not clear whether pre-financing for local self-government from the European Fund will be pre-financing or whether money can be received in advance. This brief summary of the proposal for a Law on Cooperation in most articles could be made as confusion and uncertainty are created and only a few examples are found in that section. Article 14 mysteriously presents an investor who makes an agreement on land compensation that will be for general or common purposes. In Article 23, I quote "It can be determined to move or tear down a residential or commercial building, and the owner shall be entitled to compensation determined in agreement with it". Who determines the fee, the need and the amount of compensation? A private company, a contractor? It is too non-transparent and opens up the possibility of agreements and certain malversions. Article 26 determines that, in relation to subsequent damages between individual members of the commission or participants of the commission and contractors, the competent authorities decide if the parties entrust them with the resolution of these disputes, and if not who does? In Article 30, the Agency shall convene a meeting of landowners and landowners and representatives of the local self-government unit to introduce them to the purpose and conditions under which the commission is intended. Where there is the role of farmers and local self-government in something that is of life interest to them, and they are only familiar with the conditions under which the work will be carried out. Article 36 provides that the Ministry of Justice is to propose members of the county commission, the re-centralisation of the procedure. In accordance with Article 38 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. From the above, it is clear that one of these serious laws that has been engulfed in the lives of several generations and which handles matters of vital importance for farmers and rural people must be prepared more seriously, complemented. Farmers have earned so much respect as Croatian citizens that such a law is being prepared more seriously and with respect to those to whom it applies. I propose that all legal obstacles to the implementation of this law be defined and prepared to remove them, to define clearer sources and funding ratios, to carry out through the winter of the right public debate with those to whom this law deals most with farmers and to think about it, I think that Mrs Škare Ozbolt said that in Croatia, there should be a lot of thinking and a total in agriculture and production by regional principle because it is not the same as my colleague said in Zagora, in Prigorje, Slavonia, Podravina everywhere, and it must be kept in mind because it can be a good basis for the later and better development of agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87278	Thank you. Next, Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87279	Thank you very much. So here I am also trying to make one of my contributions to this debate because I think today we've agreed on something at least a little bit. The first question that arises is do we need a commission? I think more or less we've all concluded not only us through clubs but also the professional public, but also the executive authority that we need the commission. Is that why the 27-year-old law should be changed? I think even in that part that we agreed that we should because in the meantime there was a new state, a new territorial structure, that there were some procedures, and I guess through this law, it's going to put everything out of effect, and it's going to start some new procedure. I think we're more or less in agreement here, which we've all said we want more production, bigger placements, bigger profits, and most importantly we want to process the country. Now that we've all tried to explain it, some of them have gone from Maria Teresa, from a time 100 years ago. I had a feeling that very skillfully avoided maybe a period that was devastating for ownership rights and that was a period that lasted 45 years, we called it communism. And indeed, then private property was a second category, at least we who come from the island and I believe that it is true and in the whole state we knew what it means when the party says something will be built there and not solve property legal relations. After that, we have received in some way an unsettled system of ownership, a catastra, and we cannot say that today we have a promising situation and from which today unfortunately all our economic problems arise, primarily a lack of investment and then jobs. I will only mention the question that we have tried and started solving tourist land and its status as a result of a misbehavior to private property. So then we conclude that for 24 years we've been sorting out a garter, a cadastre, and yet we don't have a promising situation, but we're still going to go into this kind of comcommunication law. Today, the islands were really often mentioned, and I think this is one possibility that is available. Now, I come from one island, from the island of Rab, and I experience this law as one hidden possibility that can contribute, we have three large fields that are agricultural land and I will only talk about this once unfortunately next to which I live in my municipality because I think it should also get the possibility of a different look from today, which is unfortunately grass, weed and disorder, an ugly picture in one tourist town. However, what happened was that one such resource for centuries allowed life on that island and then suddenly became completely irrelevant. That's what it was all about, and that's what it was for. I don't think it's different either in Slavonia or in person or in other parts of the Republic of Croatia. Everything was being processed and there wasn't a need for a commission, each and every tiny piece of land was being processed. I don't regret these times but something did happen because only my island fed almost half the county from Rijeka to Senj because there were no agricultural areas in these areas that could produce certain products from vegetables. But what happened? In the '70s, big tourist facilities called tourism came to Rab from a mile away that it was mass tourism and one generation that was the holder of the processing of the area, which is our grandfathers, our grandparents, unfortunately they have dried up or gone and the younger generations have turned to what is easier, it is a profit from tourism and they have very quickly compared what is worth it and what is not worth it. So the result of everything is very easy to harden, tourism can live better than agriculture, especially on islands and in the coast, in our 7 coastal counties. In the last 10 years, through incentives towards olive and wine vines, a portion of agriculture has somehow returned, but the properties have remained depreciated. The question that we haven't heard the answer today is why we're going into cohesion, do we want to produce more because we don't produce enough to feed 4.5 million people and 10 million people who come here in the season or don't produce enough, we need a combination, a rounding so that we can feed again what I've quoted. We haven't heard the answer to that question why we go into it because we listen to the manufacturer daily we have a product, we can't place it and we don't produce enough from the state, we import too much. That is obvious, those two stories cannot be matched and therefore the question arises. My point is, you had two public debates in Slavonski Brod and in Osijek, we didn't have a beach, I think this may be the first news for our residents, the first public debate to witness at least through television. Because I understand Slavonia is where people live and live for it, especially in rural areas, and it should be highly respected. When we talk about islands, these dehussed properties today tell me it was a dam from an even greater devastation of space. If they weren't such a small question, what would we look like to the coast after a rash of apartmentization of massive construction that we're trying to deal with today. However, due to the tenacity of the very quality land particles in the municipality where I live, we simply cannot move, we cannot find the model in which to run at all. We tried one example of the lease. And that's where we find problems when you're renting someone as a single company because they don't process to produce, say, tomatoes. We produced 20 tons on one hectare. When you produced it, you don't have a plasma. And when we add up plus and minus we just have two jobs and let's say the cost of zero. We didn't get anything, we didn't lose anything, but two jobs. Now that we accept this as it says, we don't stand a chance because people want to protect their property and they're going to have a very hard time getting involved with someone else. We don't understand the role of state and state land in that. From the land of the state we have on the island the only forest in the most attractive parts and stone with which we can't do anything. Now the question is, what can we get out of this law? And here's what I'd like the esteemed deputy to explain to us what it might look like with us, because we who meet every day with all kinds of laws in this thing can't read it. I have a feeling that too much centralism here is still expressed and I'm particularly bothered by this mid-level county. I really don't see their role in it without these some kind of timelines that have been talked about today. Because we will still live on that island in doubt whether we can engage in such a thing, knowing that we don't have plasma, that our particles are what they are, that very rarely anyone who gets into it because of cost-effectiveness, and that a few sunbeds on the beach can generate more income. And that's where I see the problem not only on my island, but on someone else. I think there's still, no matter what the start, I believe one law that we need, that we should maybe expand another public debate to the coast. There are various cases, from Istria to Dubrovnik, not all areas are equally configurational. There's a field somewhere, agricultural land and good land, and there's really no land. Because it bothers me, too, if something 24 years didn't work out, I don't know why I'm optimistic that it's going to go very fast. I think we have a certain... and I'm afraid that this law, like a lot of people, wouldn't be just some possibility, or that what I once said here, that we're driving a car with what's called a flat tire, we just have and somehow we're moving, and we didn't do anything. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87280	Thank you. And finally, on behalf of the motionary, Deputy Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87281	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable Madam Representatives and Gentlemen Representatives. First of all, I want to thank everyone for a great number of proposals and positive ones here, so to speak with the vibrations of the Cooperation Act. We have carried out an analysis of the implementation of the Cooperation Act in all European Union countries that implement this law and around 200, and in some countries, for example. in the Netherlands and over 300 years. So these are countries, as I said, with a high level of agricultural production, Germany, Austria, Italy, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, so the countries that do so in continuity and thus create a good basis for agricultural producers to be competitive and above all have less cost of production. As far as we're concerned, we've put farmers on the verge of the whole process, no, I'd say the farmer is here in the middle of the whole process because the whole system is doing a job for the farmer with funds from the rural development program and according to our analysis, the whole process costs about 3,000 kuna per hectare. So if we hadn't come up with a law like this, it would have been paid by a farmer. In the end, it would be his cost so that he could settle his property and legal affairs, and that he could write it down eventually in the land book and as such have as an instrument insurance and display it at the time of the loan. So we are and here is the center of this law agricultural producer. Compassion costs. We wanted to make it transparent so that it can be financed from all sources, taking into account the diversity of Croatia, here we heard from Slavonia, via Zagorje to Primorje, Dubrovnik. So some local self-government units have more resources, some will be interested in part of the costs and covering them, some local self-government units won't be able to do that. We have therefore made it possible to finance both from donations and from the budget and of course from the European Union funds. In doing so, agricultural producers are exempt from all costs and are exempt from paying taxes on real estate when replacing and during the whole process. Therefore, the cost of agricultural producers in this procedure does not exist. In addition, what we have tried to do is make it easier for farmers to establish irrigation systems because we have heard, we have examples in certain counties of vegetables and fruit producers have their own plantations on 10, 15, 30 or more particles among which other producers own. In order to create a irrigation system, it takes 5, 10, and in some cases more systems than they really need to round it up. So their cost of production is huge. In addition, we address the issue of unprocessed agricultural land, we allow that if, in a particular area of the cadastrian municipality, 5, 10 or 15 agricultural producers want to carry out a commission, then the commissation process will be carried out only in part of the cadastrian particle, and only for agricultural land, we do not enter into another. So if there is, and we had and talked in the field with people, so there are farmers who have goats, sheep, who would like to invest in small processing plants, produce tomato juice, fruit juices, mini cheeses, but simply can't because they don't have a basic tool, that's the country, they have no land issue solved. Through this process, when we allow farmers to reach the land which is now unprocessed and which is abandoned then we will also allow for the opening of small crafts, small processing facilities. Therefore, we will allow our farmers not only to produce a agricultural product, but also to add value to what they need. In terms of self-sufficiency and whether we produce enough or not, unfortunately, on the balance sheet of agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia, only two products are currently produced in quantities that meet the needs of the population of the Republic of Croatia. It's a feather and honey. In all other sectors, we are not self-sufficient, so we do not produce enough for our own population, let alone for export or other needs. About what we're still allowing this law. Agricultural producers will be better equipped with planning, reducing production costs and the possibility of obtaining credit because they will be able to enter their resources in land books and thus have value over the assets they use. What is still being said here in the debate about small farms that are not competitive, so I would like to remind myself that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted a new model of common agricultural policy that adopts two programmes – the Small Agricultural Economy Programme and we have an extremely important Youth Programme. We are also aware that in our second part of Croatia, which deals with more tourism, there are parts where tourist seasons and people work there, but the islands should also be reached in winter and see what people do there. Through agricultural production which is very profitable if cultures are grown that provide added value. Flowers, fruits, vegetables, greenhouses and plastics that provide two or three harvests over the year. So, extra income. There are great potentials and through the Youth Programme we send a message to young people that agriculture is also the future, food is the future to grow agricultural products, but of course bioenergy and all that can be done on the agricultural economy, rural tourism, tasters, sports and recreational tourism, all that is in rural areas we just need to ensure. One of the main preconditions is the solution to ownership issues and the solution to agricultural land. We think this is the first step. I also said in this morning's debate that we should analyse the heritage of agricultural land in other EU countries than France, Denmark, Belgium, the Netherlands, and even study Switzerland. Inheritance of agricultural land in these countries is very strict, limited. So we don't. We see the result on the ground with agricultural land as it is. I point out that agricultural land was placed in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The protection of the Republic of Croatia is of particular interest. Why? Because it's for food production. And when we talk about private property, everyone who owns agricultural land should be aware that they have the resources that they own, but serves everyone in the Republic of Croatia and food must be produced on that land. About the programmes I highlighted, about small agricultural holdings. So they can be competitive, they can produce, but their basic condition is association, association in any form they consider appropriate. These are agricultural cooperatives, d.o.o., d.d. So they have to team up. Why? To gain the financial capacity to invest, invest in refrigerators, in processing facilities, not what we are, the country of exporting raw apples, Mandarins. So, something additional that has added value, which employs new people and I am convinced, I am optimistic that, for this reason and the counties and units of local self-government, and at the end of the Agency for Agricultural Land and State and Government as a whole, we can carry out this process in the interest of agricultural producers and in the interest of the citizens of Croatia for food production and for investments in agriculture that will be realised through the Rural Development Programme. There's a lot of measures. The minister said it means 16 measures. One of the two most important is investment in agricultural economies, but of course it is from rural tourism and from traditional crafts and from investments in processing and marketing plants. There is also a measure for young, beginners very interesting. So we give a different direction to agricultural production with a much larger choice, and I am convinced that agricultural economies, especially young people, will recognize what they can use and that this is one of the fundamental laws that enables finally agricultural producers who want to increase their production and investment opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87282	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We have one replica, colleague Zlatko Tušak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87283	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, in one part you have looked at how the ministry has used experience positively related to membership in many EU countries, which I think is a good basis to have a quality law and it is undeniable that Croatia needs a Law on Cooperation. But something that this law must take into account, which is the question, I believe, is that until the second reading and correction, which is a question of opportunities in Croatia that you have talked about here, because in these countries they have a problem of land books, cadastres, grants, which is one of the biggest problems related to successful membership, and not to say that there are no such situations as we do that on certain cadastrian particles you have 10, 15 co-owners, and the question of efficiency in general is that there is no agreement between them and the co-owners to agree on that part of that section of that section that there is a compromise on these cadastrian particles. So inside that, and perhaps a suggestion when there are more co-owners then perhaps a certain if most co-owners agree to then and that part of the commission is carried out. This is kind of based on what you've been saying good examples of EU law but also on opportunities in Croatia that are something different.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87284	Thank you. No answer? There is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87285	Thank you very much. So, as I said at the Ministry of Analysis, we did exactly for reasons not to make mistakes and to make a law based on the practice of other Member States. Unfortunately, we had no practice in the Republic of Croatia because the process was not implemented. The second thought of the guide was to solve cases, here we are, and we heard, where the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have been waiting 30 years for certain issues and cases to be resolved, because no one took care of them. So, the truth is that the Republic of Croatia is specific to that. But I will stress, therefore, that the law provides the possibility that the process of co-operation should be carried out for a part of the Catastrian municipality. So, not for the entire Catastrian municipality and no. 2. for agricultural land only. So, if the agricultural producers estimate, 10 or 15, or I don't know what number, that they want to start the process of compromise they can do it and only that part will be taken, they won't be taken whole. As regards both the costs and the speed of implementation of the procedure. So this law emphasizes putting the agricultural producer in the centre and what it needs and what it needs to solve the issue of agricultural land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87286	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later. I thank the Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87287	Proposal for a law on agricultural land membership, first reading, P.Z. No. 687. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusions. 1. Proposal for a law on agricultural land membership is hereby adopted. 1. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes were 83 for and 20 abstentions reached in relation to the law of P.Z. No. 687.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87288	We continue with - Final proposal of the Financial Business and Accounting Act of non-profit organisations, second reading, P.Z. No. 611; The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. With us is a representative of the proposing, Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radinovic. Introductory, Deputy Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87289	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs are here before you, so the second reading of the Financial Business and Accounting Act of Non-profit Organizations. For the first time, I was sitting on the other side, arguing for 7 hours if you remember another 4th of February. Since we have accepted almost all the remarks through these amendments and additions to the law, but I believe that there will be no debate so much. I honestly don't remember when some law was adapted that way. when the Government of the Republic of Croatia and this and the previous one adapted one law so much to the demands of parliamentary representatives. So that's one positive step on that side. Here are just a few sentences on how non-profit accounting is being conducted today. Therefore, on the basis of a Regulation on the accounting of non-profit organisations adopted in 2008 and several amendments thereto and through the multiannual application of that Regulation, the need for the establishment of a legislative framework has also been identified, and in order to prescribe a system of sound financial management and control not only in the section of accounting but also in the design and programming of financial plans and their implementation and in particular reporting. Therefore, it is an assessment by the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the regulation today cannot adequately respond to requests for the application of the principle of public and transparency, especially in the section as I said financial reporting and transparent insight into the spending of funds from public sources. And that's why we proposed this law. A reminder of whom the law applies. So 23, 617 associations are registered in a register at the Ministry of Finance. At the Ministry of Management, there is still a significant number and we are solving this problem daily. So 598 associations, 422 institutions, 222 tourist communities, 282 unions, 227 art organizations, 112 employers' associations, 137 foundations, 96 political parties, 64 chambers, 24 foreign associations, 4 foundations. I think that, as I said earlier in the first debate, we have therefore cleared up the relationship that this bill does not introduce any new taxes, that this bill merely leads to a new increase in transparency and accountability in business, and that I believe that this law will also be acceptable to all the clubs of the representatives. So, on February 4th, we discussed this long session of this law and respecting all the comments of the fundamental change, the key changes, let me tax them out. Therefore, the specific position of religious communities as well as of political parties or similar political parties has been recognised, and on that side, Article 2(1) has been deleted from the list of obligeds to apply the provisions of the law, except in the section relating to the delivery of reports on budget spending and financial supervision of funds from public sources. Similarly, the biggest amendments and the most debates were held on the famous article 33, which therefore signed the amount of 230 thousand kunas of revenue in the original bill of law. If... during one year of carrying out economic activity, that amount was the limit above which the original draft law provided that the amount would be higher than that the non-profit organisation is obliged to establish a company or other form of association which is not non-profit. On the basis of, I say, the largest part of the objection, the complaint of the largest part of the MPs, of all the clubs of the representatives who were either fiercely or in doubt about the very provision and the provisions spoke in the first reading. Deputy Minister, Minister Lalovac also said that this is one of the topics with which we are entering the parliamentary deputies..., by listening to all of you, we gave up this article completely and all the controls, i.e. all business of economic, possibly economic business, I say, these associations will take place in accordance with the law as prescribed by the Law on Profit Tax and belonging to sublegal acts, meaning in the way it is now implemented. In addition, more precisely defined internal controls are based on financial management and control systems. What was also a second complaint in force, if they can be built up in such a way, was the objection of trade union associations and the good part of the representatives' clubs, so on the basis of conventions of international labour organisations guaranteeing the freedom of association and the rights of trade unions to form their own rules of action, including financial independence and their right not to be made public, and therefore, by this proposal, in fact, we decided, by amending the proposal in the second reading, to apply this argument and to apply the same to employers' associations, so the same principles apply to employers' associations, thus supplementing Article 32 of this proposal of the law in a way that trade unions and employers' associations are exempt... reports made on the revision of annual financial reports, i.e. the financial reports for the previous year. The unions of employers' associations are obliged to submit their audit reports to the Ministry of Finance, but they are not publicly published from the arguments, I say, which were presented at first reading. In addition, Article 37 prescribes that trade unions and employers’ associations are excluded from the publication of the annual financial report through the register of non-profit organisations, but that they may submit their annual financial reports to all interested parties if they are assessed not to violate their free and independent action. The third rank, if I may say so, in the first reading debate, were certain fines for violations during the first reading of the law, and we also respected that part, and therefore, in this proposal, we are reducing the final bill of fines for non-profit organisations, which amounted to 5 to 500 thousand kuna, which were in the original proposal of the law to 5 to 200 thousand kunas for the violation of a non-profit organisation leading to double accounting, and from 1000 to 50 thousand kuna for those less non-profit organisations which are therefore run by simple bookkeeping. I remind you, the first proposal was up to 500 thousand kuna. Accordingly, we have reduced the responsibility of the legal person, the legal representative of a non-profit organisation, so we are reducing any fines here from 5 to 20 so the punishment for the legal representative of a non-profit organisation if it comes to double accounting, and 1,000 to 10 thousand can be punished for the violation of the persons of legal agents run by simple accounting. On the one hand, the reduction, but one new article, paragraph 3 of that article, was added, in respect of the offence that a fine of between 10 and 50 thousand kuna would be fined by the Head of State Administration, i.e. the unit of local self-government, which would eventually receive payment of a non-profit organisation, which is not registered in the register of non-profit organisations. Since the register is open and transparent, I believe there will be no such brave leaders and uninformed, possibly informed leaders. The extended deadline for enrolment in that register from 30 to 60 days to, I say, not have a narrow throat, in this case it was a state statistical office to quickly issue, so that home number. In addition to these amendments, the law has been nomotechnically amended, there are one, two remarks of, or three, to be precise, by the Committee on Law in the second reading that the Government has already accepted, so I believe there will be no problem on that side. So, perhaps this very register of non-profit organisations in which, therefore, as one of the projects of this government in the work of transparency, openness and accountability, perhaps the best pictures and is... the adoption of this law. Therefore, openness and transparency in the management of society as a whole, as well as public finances. Allow a small digression, just these days, the Ministry of Finance, therefore, has opened the register, therefore, of public procurement at the Treasury to see which companies and how they supply all the bodies of the state administration that operate towards the Treasury, that is the way to which... and which I believe we will get your support. Here, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I believe these are sufficient reasons for you to accept this final bill in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87290	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club Slavko Linić, Branko Vuksic and Nedzad Hodzic, colleagues Slavko Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87291	Mr. President, colleagues from the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Right at the beginning, that as a club we will support the Final Proposal of the Law on Financial Business and Accounting of Non-profit Organisations. Very briefly, what is important for the introduction is that a huge number of over 26 360 non-profit organisations, most of which are registered associations, then we realize that this is a huge number that has so far been regulated only by a regulation that has had its own particular shortcomings. On the other hand, when we talk about transactions, then 12 billion annual revenues, 11.4 billion annual expenditures of which 3 billion dedicated funds and general funds of an additional 3 billion from the state budget, the budget of the units of local and regional self-government talk about huge resources that have been allocated from public revenues for the needs of non-profit organisations. But also what's interesting, slightly less than 2 billion kunas of income that have been achieved by non-profit organisations, are all the figures that have demanded legislation in that part. Especially what's interesting, that's when we see that traffic through a jury account cash flows was over 30 billion a year, and that means that regulation is still needed, and supervision, but what is clearly needed are reports for the public as well as transparency in business. So I think at 1.1 next year we'll finally have a settlement and legislation in that part. We agree that the limit for simple bookkeeping with all accompanying documents, books that simple bookkeeping provides for non-profit organisations up to 230 000 is acceptable and that all those who cross 230 000 annual incomes must work according to the principles of dual accounting, which means a little more business books and somewhat more difficult ways of working around the documentation itself. It is also very important to understand that, in addition to public oversight, in particular for a part of the funds coming from public income, it is necessary that non-profit organisations' founders also regularly receive reports and that they can monitor everything that happens in a certain non-profit organisation regardless of whether funds are invested or is part of the usual annual activity of a non-profit organisation. I believe that the greatest burden for certain organisations will be if they are the bonds of dual accounting that they will have to work and plans. So activity plans, investment plans, borrowing plans, and all for the most part, so that their founders may have a pre-determination option in what sense the activities of the association itself will take place. Therefore, I would say this law very clearly defines the obligation to conduct accounting and accountability in that part, but also in the second part, it is also a law that gives their founders greater opportunities to influence work, supervision and control. An important segment that has so far been less respected through the regulation is the mandatory reporting of local, regional self-government and state-oriented public income funds to have in some way the full insight of those public income providers into what the funds are spent. But also the right to control their supervision whether or not the reports and documents presented on that part are correct. Perhaps something, a few words about the discussion of the first reading and of what is appreciated in the first reading. So we agree that at this point in time, the accounting obligation is to exclude religious communities. I have to say that what the club disagrees with is that the publication of public data excludes trade unions and employers' associations. To talk about the fact that unions are very important that they are not aware of the information publicly because a good part of the union's income can be used for strikes, then we need to know that most of the strikes are done in relation to one single employer and that's most of the state. Therefore, hiding information from that same state is impossible, why, because the Ministry of Finance collects data and has data. Therefore, the main employer to be led by, I would say that strike policy by the union and dissatisfaction, has the information, because they are mandatory to deliver to the finance ministry. And what few industrial strikes, let's be honest most people can run but at that point neither these unions have enough resources to cover the cost of strike, and the thread is relevant. Obviously in that doubt, what is the secrecy of the union's data, I don't think we should have gone to that solution, and that shows the counterweight. If the unions then went to employers' associations to look for data protection. Now someone has to explain to me, and why we simply allow the Employers' Association to not be public and transparent in the report that funds collected from membership are being spent. And I don't think there should have been a concession in that part and it wasn't necessary to succumb to those pressures because we want transparency. It's all those who have to give their reports to the public. At this point, we can see that these two organizations are not reporting. Then the question is why are we so strict and hard on others is that we also have a mass of associations of citizens dealing with education, sports, therefore I think that even those who want to have the secrecy of their donors and I don't know what. Therefore, the inequality between associations is simply achieved, and this is because of the pressures that are not so important for Croatia, because let's be honest with the union's data in Croatia. We also agree with these considerations that, nevertheless, associations engaged in and economic activities should not be set up by a company if they are making revenues. Therefore, during this transitional period, we accept that the Ministry of Finance and the Government has accepted the remarks and that it is not really going to the establishment of a society. It's all a cost and it's always been a question of how transparent and transparent in that part. It remains fundamental that the economy is in severe crises and that it is always a matter of loyal matches and loyal relationships on the market. One thing is, therefore, when these associations are really open in a closed circle of membership and the other if they are turned to all consumers, to all users. At that point, there's always a question of whether we have a loyal game or not. But since we haven't settled the question of sports financing until the end, that sport is the problem that remains the problem of how we finance it, that we don't have enough money from games of chance to go to sport, that we don't still have the funding I would say from the citizens of the good part of that sport then I think that accepting remarks and thinking that at this point we're not going to go to solutions with companies maybe the best solution that a lack of funding in sport we try to cover and in these ways that are still non-profit organisations and that they have something easier access to economic activities than they are companies. Therefore, it is clear that the government and the ministry have respected a good part of the objections, apart from that part towards the trade unions and the HUP, I think that the rest has been justified and I really appreciate that this law is of quality and that we can let it apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87292	Thank you, too. A deputy minister called to say the word. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87293	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here is very short, I think that Mr. Linic as president of the Independent Representatives Club but primarily as Mr. Linic personally deserves that the representative of the Ministry of Finance thank him personally for his support and the club in the first sentence he said he would support this law but also for the man who was carrying this bill and a series of other laws and on this side I am glad that we are still, and I say in cooperation with the Parliament found a solution that some at this time say the most optimistic but there is no such expression, so at this time is definitely an optimal solution for this matter. This trade union dilemma, yes or no, you're right, Mr. Linic when you say that the unions unfortunately in the Republic of Croatia have their strength in rules mostly or almost only show right in relation to the state and on that side ok. It's good to have strong unions. I believe that you share my grief that in some other areas these trade unions are not strong enough, are not sufficiently developed as in some other countries that are often causing us, so the idea of a leader is to give up the publication and respect the arguments that both the Labourist Club and the trade unions themselves and some other clubs and individuals that trade unions do not necessarily publish their financial reports can be understood as some incentive to develop and trade union scenes in any way that the state on that side would not suppress the potential development and progress of the union and their struggle in this tripartite section to build a better society. Of course, then the consequences are if we are contentious, and we are now that the HUP is not publishing its reports as well. They're not happy about it either, but since the Ministry of Finance has and must have a report of each other I don't think we're losing much here and that in any case we've found as I said an optimal solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87294	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDZ club Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87295	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy, ma'am. I will also say at the beginning that the HDZ Club has adopted the most significant remarks, which is Article 2 and Article 33, will support this bill, but I also simply want to say something that I said and unfortunately, in the first reading in Croatia, we do not have the habit of making the law in the package. And if one law deserves to be in a package for a simple reason for transparency and for everything that many people do in social affairs are very important to be clear rules first of all of financial business that no one can call them tomorrow, then it is crucial that certain things be settled by some other laws. Because unfortunately, we did not do what is the basic financial principle of doing the law on recording business events based on the type and source of income, but unfortunately we do it according to the organisational form. And that's him that's not good. And later you will see that in some things it simply won't be good because precisely because things are defined in organisational form and not by the source of income, some of the things that have been taken over from the basic Accounting Act and what has been defined by international accounting standards are difficult to apply here. But I am pleased to say that Article 2 has been amended, as well as Article 33, for the simple reason that the Income Tax Act and the Income Tax Act are clearly stated that if certain incomes are realised from the economic activity which is marketable, which is present on the market on that amount of earnings, income tax and profit tax must be charged, so one analytical bookkeeping must be introduced where they will be clearly recorded and this may not be sufficiently indicated here but is indicated in the lex specialis law, which is the Tax on Profits Act, so they must run an analytical bookkeeping where they will charge taxes on profits, etc. But if someone so says turns 12 billion and works out of 23 thousand and some other legal person, it certainly deserves a lot of attention first and foremost from state authorities that control the spending of money. But here we are once again trapped in one trap, which is that we have determined for everyone that 230 thousand kuna is the limit for the management of such or such bookkeeping. And why is that? Because here we have applied the financial principle and in the law itself we apply the organisational principles. You have a bunch, so to say "a bunch" under the quotes of sports clubs and some other organizations that receive exclusively funds from the budget, very few funds of sponsorship and have practically nothing, have those costs that may pay some fee, have, say, 500, 600 thousand annual incomes, they will have to run bookkeeping according to the Accounting Act and completely their business can be through what simply so-called. The catalogical bookkeeping on the left and right shall be precisely grouped and shall be all crystal clear. That's, I'm saying that's the problem that we passed the law and maybe we should have defined some other laws before that. And while I'm at sports, because of everything that's been said about sports but not when medals are being won, then everyone likes to take pictures, but in some other phases, I think the Law on Associations and the Law on Sports should have, at least that professional, semi-professional move out of this because it's just not the place for him here. If we had done that, and I was saying that, and when it was the Sport Act, then there'd probably be no unwarranted callings or anything. And let's say one sports collective turns 150, 200 million kuna, has 200 and some more employees and it has the same treatment as some association that got 5 or 10 thousand kunas from the local and state budget or let's say let's get 250 grand so it has to run accounting according to the Accounting Act. That is why this organisational form whether it is semi-professional or professional clubs simply by the Sport Act should be resolved differently. And then the normal thing is, if you have 200 and more employees, if you have 20 employees, if you have 50 employees that you can't be an association, you have to be treated in some other way. 'Cause look, we, the Income Tax Act, have defined that if a athlete has a written contract and if he's registered to a pension and health club and actually the club pays him pension and health benefits that the rest of the premium he pays practically in one other way is defined by the Tax Act. And we left them here in associations, and so the citizens of Croatia are rightfully looking at the 12 billion traffic. They're looking right at it. They're right to look at the wonder when we're talking about 22,000 associations. They know that these are firemen, that they are the Red Cross, that they are cultural artistic societies, a series of associations that are simply in many communities the only way of social life and that practically half of the village gathers around these associations, and God himself exists because people would have nothing to gather about. But we also have in this segment of sport and there are also some other associations that are treated one way or another but are engaged in all kinds of brokering activities and are turning big money. And that's what the law has to clean up. Not some association set up by 5 or 6 individuals can deal with some kind of intermediate services and turn 5, 10, 15 million kunas and make no one interested in it in this country. At the same time, they're selling your mind about morality and everything. Now that's just what needs to be eliminated from this law. Because we've raised transparency and control again, but we've left something in the same basket that just isn't the place. Because look, we can talk whatever we want, it can be in the Ministry of Finance 100 people, but you need to review 23 thousand financial reports in one particular time and go into inspection and determine all that together. But I'm saying it's the ones that make the funds come true in some other way, not out of the budget, not out of sponsorship or anything. And that's why when you mix with financials, it's not just good. You must stick to one basic principle. And later I'll show you what that means in a specific example. So now I'd like to go to Articles 23, 24 and 26, so it's only to be done, let's use that old term with basic assets or permanent assets. And now look, what's the logic if someone from the budget gets 100,000 kunas to buy, we can go less, get 6,000 kunas a local lower-class football club to buy a washing machine so they can follow the uniforms and everything together. So he got 6,000 kunas from the budget, he bought the machine and he got that 6,000 kuna cost in that year because he had no income from the basis of that machine, and we're ordering him here to calculate depreciation. It can be accounted for, but where it is in accordance with the Accounting Act and international accounting standards, it will be recorded nowhere, because it cannot be registered because it must report whether it is a municipal, city council or state budget, it must report that those 6000 kuna it sought from the local budget or from the state budget used to buy that washing machine and it must be shown in expenditures. At the same time, we have here in Article 26, and in Article 24, I will only quote Article 24(1), the value of a particular subject of a long-term non-financial asset is amortised, i.e. correcting a linear method in a useful period of use, starting from the first day of the month to the month. And now look, when you spend, when it affects your tax score then it makes sense, but if you get money from someone for that money you bought it, it doesn't affect any tax result, then what's the point of calculating depreciation. Tomorrow, when you're going to sell that machine like that, you're doing some sort of assessment, and by law, you'd have to write down that unwritten part of the value from the cost, and you don't have anything to sign up for, because tomorrow, when you sell, you'll practically book it all in revenue. So that's one provision that can create a lot of problems tomorrow. Or it says unreciprocal revenues, revenues under specific regulations, donations, membership fees, assistance, contributions and other and similar revenues shall be recognised in the reporting period to which they relate under the conditions that they are available and charged during the reporting period, and may be recognised in the reporting period if they are charged at the latest until the time of the presentation of the financial report for the same period. I think it's one big mistake and it opens up a big room for manipulation. If you've made some kind of cost for which you haven't received any donations, you'll book it at the expense of that year, and next year you'll receive that grant, but from the previous year you've passed some minus that you'll cover with those money that you got next year, and I think that's the cleanest provision. And like this, if you open up space for someone to practically submit a report, which is 3 or 4 months next year, they can register their income from that year for the previous year, you open up space for various manipulations. The question is raised under the Budget and Budgetary Accounting Act which you will report to the representative body or the executive body about the budget spending. Because look, you can't book it in your business books for 2013, and at the same time book it in all the reports and documents for 2014. Because if you were to get something in 2013, and you made the cost, and you got that money in 2014, you can't send a report to the city or the municipality or the county or to the government that you used those money in 2013. If you used them in 2014 you will send this report 2014. So it's one thing only maybe to think about since most associations are practically recipients of funds from the budget. It doesn't apply if you make a contract sponsorship or one of these or such that you can make an expense, and that he will pay you in the first or second months. Then it's the other pair of shoes. But this is about the reporting obligation, so if you're reporting in one period, then you have to have it registered. So pure technique. The cost of obtaining long-term assets is capitalised and expenditure is recognised during the useful life of use. It's one totally wrong provision because if you got the money from the budget, that's article 26, I think it's the 7th, actually the 7th indent before this paragraph 3, so if you got the money from the budget to get something, then you have to sign it up as a expense over the year. You don't need to time-limit something for which you got the money. That's where you buy some income and you don't want it to burden you in that year. It's so-called. Accounting policy where you time-limit costs. And let me just mention one more thing, which is when Article 25 of the non-profit organisation re-valorates long-term assets by applying the price increase coefficient of industrial products if inflation is measured by the same income coefficient of 3 years cumulatively higher than 30%. It was never more than 5% a year, so if inflation was greater than 5%, it became a revaluation obligation, so the correction of the value of the fixed assets. And we're putting in here three years 30%, just because someone for one very important piece of information, if someone thinks it's important that we give him space after three years, we're calculating it's a non-essential piece of information and it doesn't affect his financial result at all. But that's probably why it came, and now I'm going back to the beginning, that many undercover associations are dealing with some other activities. And it's very important, if you realize 5 million of the activities that are competitive, these provisions that are done here are very important, but that's not the place here in this law, that's the place somewhere else. And that's why I'm saying today there's this and these are the provisions that unfortunately drag us into some kind of gray zone, and this is just a recommendation to the Ministry's representatives to correct these things. These are technical changes, nothing in the law will change. I'm saying, I'm sure this law will demand, in some future times, that it be changed, that it be improved, that it be even more transparent. And at the end of the day when you have electronic media, when it's technically possible to publish any report to any leader of any association in the interest of seeing business for a simple reason if nothing else is due to political bickering that someone can't use because you asked for some sports society, something to call you tomorrow for it. It is of interest to you that this financial report is published and that everyone sees it, that they do until the last June as someone gets it. So I don't see any reason not to. I say, we are pleased that the Ministry of Finance as a Proposer and Government has accepted the remarks of all MPs who have spoken here regarding Articles 2 and 33, and therefore we will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87296	Thank you, too. The Deputy Minister has come forward for his word, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87297	Here's my thanks, Vice President. Very brief, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to thank Mr. Shucker for his constructive discussion and thank the HDZ Club for his support of this bill. Two groups of remarks actually proposed to improve you said about yourself, so the ministry and its capacity to check all these financial reports. Okay. We will redistribute as much as we can and as far as you know best and as a former minister, that it is not a simple matter, but we think that this very transparency and publication of the data itself and we expect that the public will also help us and tell us both the media and everyone else. It is this transparency that aims to dissipate you in some way from subjective assessments, i.e. evaluations that can and do not have to be subjective within limited capacities, i.e. state administration, and to show transparent information to the public on this side. And we don't think there's gonna be a narrow throat just to control the financial reports, and there won't be any unions, so it'll be easier for us. The union will come to us, but not in public. Think of this as a joke. As far as depreciation and accounting principles are concerned, yes and no. I appreciate everything you've said and here's my colleague Bajo who understands himself much better than I do in accounting alone has listened carefully and recorded what we can do in some future interactions. But I am obliged to say that this amortization principle, so that more than 230 thousand kunas are carried out by large and small entrepreneurs. So we've been pulling since 2008, so nothing's changed accountingly since then. At that time, the border was 100 thousand kuna, and on that side these provisions were practically prescribed from that part. So when you mentioned... 6,000 kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If it's a really small sports club and he's 100, 150 a year, then he can lead the way in, the way out. But if it's a bigger sports club, if it's a Cibona. Here I am looking at a colleague of Jelusic who was once a director or some other we still have to, then it's still good to run... But I'm saying that's the primary professional question I don't know how much of us can judge it accordingly now, it's worth the debate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But here is the very accounting department of the Faculty of Economics recommended that, therefore, non-profit organisations be guided by that accounting principle. Therefore, on that side it is within the law. But here, we'll think about all the other laws. And finally, I agree with you in principle that, listen, we at the Ministry of Finance have proposed what is 25,000 organizations in the register. With Mr. Bauk, we still run 50,000 associations according to other principles. I agree that some questions from the jurisdiction of this law, i.e. ... It would be much better if we had to settle through other laws. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We primarily think about sports organizations, but I believe it will also come to the agenda for all of you. What we could do from the Ministry of Finance now while they're where they are doing it in one way and I hope given how many associations it is that it doesn't bring confusion back to the public like we had when we first read it. And that's why I'm glad that we've cleared up a lot of dilemmas about it and that here, at least so far, all the clubs support this proposal and that as such it will eventually be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87298	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87299	Thank you very much. Well, I'd just like to clear up this amortization thing. We obviously didn't get along there. I repeat, if you get the money from the budget to buy permanent property you get the full amount and book the full amount in costs. Because in reporting to whoever gave you the money, you put the full amount, and in classical business, you opt for a policy of depreciation whether it suits you to write off the basic asset as soon as possible to make it more cost and a smaller basis for taxation. So I don't understand how you're going to book it, because you're amortizing if you're counting it should be written down by the Accounting Act on that is the Conto 4 group, so on the expenditure side. But if you're looking at the other side that you got the money to buy it or let's say you took the loan. The loan rate is not proportional to the annual depreciation rate. Take it if it's a construction facility, if it's at 20 years, it's 5% rate, and let's say the loan you got at 10 years. Understand, so that's what this is all about. And that's the problem that's going to create, then you're going to have to deal with it with the rule. So, one is the depreciation of someone who deals with the activity to make some kind of profit and some kind of income, and then you time-limit the costs that he doesn't charge in one year, that he doesn't have a negative financial result, and the other is if you get all the money in one year to buy that permanent property. And the normal thing, buy it, book it in cost because you got the money for it and whoever gave you the money, so whether it's a local or state budget report that you received that money and for that money on the spending side bought it. But if it remains an amortisation obligation, then you can only practically calculate analytically, but it has nothing to do with financial recording. Because the way it stays in the Accounting Act, you're bound to register financially. Then how will you record the cost and how you will present the financial report according to who gave you the money? It is, therefore, the problem of the Accounting Act, which is not according to the financial principle but according to the organisational principle.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87300	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives, Shandor Juhas, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87301	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues. I must say immediately that our club will support this law because we believe that the new Law on Associations and this law achieves a more transparent work of all those associations that make some revenue and carry out certain activities. I am pleased that the law will apply to political parties, but I am not satisfied that it does not fully apply to religious communities and that trade unions and employers' associations have been excluded. I think something else could have been done and that these categories should have been applied to this law. Everyone's saying what's hurting him, so I'm being hit by national minorities, so I'm going to say a little bit about it. National minority organisations are financed primarily by public money, mostly exclusively from the state budget or from the budget of units of regional and local self-government and these funding are different. The criteria for the allocation of funds and the methodology for monitoring the Council for National Minorities and so far have specifically focused and provided opportunities for those money obtained from the National Minority Council to be transparently demonstrated. There could only be talk about who got as much, whether there was a little more to be added or something to be taken away and whether these funds were absolutely enough to achieve cultural autonomy for members of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. We believe that these funds are not enough and should be increased in a certain way, but that is another problem. For us, the biggest problem is a transparent demonstration of all those funds that individual associations receive from abroad and which have so far not been fully transparently shown and have not been publicly published. It is often not known other than who donated these funds, which have been donated, whether they have been spent in an appropriate manner and how these funds are being calculated. From my personal experience, I know that it all comes down to some kind of photocopying of accounts and then they're sent to these donors and they declare that these funds were spent on it and that. If these funds are spent to achieve some of the cultural autonomy programmes, then it is not really a problem, but I think it should be returned to that model that was in force until a few years ago, which is that foreign donations to organizations to achieve or those associations dealing with the achievement of cultural and educational activities are free of VAT payments to those donations. Because that way, and what little resources you can get for the good part is taken by the state. The biggest problem is when a foreign donation, often state-owned, through the financing of an association or by some offices it fills then directly affects the members of a particular association's election results in a local community and even the possible choice of representatives in the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. We know that the associations of national minorities who are proposing candidates are proposing candidates for members of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia and now if foreign states, which happens, pumps money or literally pumps money into a particular association, opens foundations, helps schools, helps churches, helps homes of culture, etc. and all of this is done in a warm manner under the cover of some voluntary investment in all of this, and it all comes down to the fact that the leaders of individual associations are thus promoted and that these leaders then appear on certain lists or for local and regional self-government, and even to the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. I think that kind of practice should stop, and that's why it's another reason why I support the law. We have met quite often with such a phenomenon so far, and we from the Union of Hungarian associations have on several occasions warned the Council for National Minorities and the State Election Commission but without some visible result, with the most frequent explanation that it is about donations from abroad, not about the use of public money. I also welcome and support a part of the law that for the first time clearly emphasises the infringing provisions which will, in any case, reflect and act preventively and prevent some of the abuses because it is important that both part of the responsible persons of individual associations understand their position, their responsibility for the work of the association and their personal responsibility. We haven't had that much before. Everyone was glad to be the president of the association, but when they face certain problems, then they are running away from all of it and trying to get involved with someone else. This may lead to funding or financial management being entrusted to some professionals or those involved. I would especially like to welcome the decision and the article of the one who introduces misdeeds and for the leaders of local and regional self-government because we have witnessed in practice so far that the various pressures of individuals from various associations are being financed by associations close to the leaders of these associations, their co-workers and then before the elections we have a mass of comassiades, fishiades, graviades, etc. implemented by different associations. However, when elections pass, there is nothing from these associations, then it is lost until the next elections and works as it works. Once again, we will uphold this law and vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87302	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU Željko Shemper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87303	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This law regulates the framework and financial operations and the management of accounting for non-profit organisations, which include various associations and their associations, foundations, foundations, foundations, political parties, chambers, trade unions, religious and other communities, as well as any other legal persons whose main objective is not to acquire profits or profits and which are entered in the register of non-profit organisations run by the Ministry of Finance. Of the 51,000 associations in the Republic of Croatia, 26 362 associations were registered in the register of non-profit organisations, which on 31 December 2013 showed a total of 37 billion kuna assets of which 21, almost 22 billion non-financial assets and 15.5 billion financial assets. Of these 15.5 billion financial pensions 4.3 billion are in bank accounts or deposits, and out of 11 billion 6 billion are loans and loans. In 2014, non-profit organisations transferred a total surplus from 2013 to the previous years of 8.1 billion kuna, with almost 21,000 workers working on average. These figures show that it is really big funds, and this law prescribes transparent accounting, control and reporting. Until now, the full accounting of all these organisations has been prescribed by a regulation on the accounting of non-profit organisations to which the business books, accounting organisations, the list of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenditures, financial reporting and all other areas relating to the management of the accounting of those organisations. In view of the fact that the accounting office had already been prescribed a narrow area of accounting management for a long time, there was a need for a broader legislative framework which would also regulate the system of planning and programming, drawing up financial plans, their implementation and ultimately no less important reporting on complete business. The need for the application of the principle of public and transparency with a specific focus on the source of funding has also been identified and the most important thing is how and what the financial resources collected are spent on. This applies in particular to the finances that such associations receive from the state budget or units of local and regional administrations. This law was expected to introduce a public announcement of financial reports by non-profit organisations which were not available all these years, and we see that, for example, this was done in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. This bill creates a specific and necessary framework for the entire financial business as well as for all elements of the accounting system of non-profit organisations. This law is the basis for sound financial operations, with the principle of public transparency and control, and all in order to realise what is causing the non-profit organisation to be established. In particular, attention should be paid to control because there are examples that even internal audit cannot find a way out of the maze as we have seen in the 2012 HRT business report. The system must ensure business without loss, inadequate use of financial resources and how it can occur from possible fraud and illegal actions. In the first reading, there was an objection to a part of the bill relating to the special treatment of religious communities and to the part that the church collects as cash and refers to family gifts, parishioners' charity, funeral fees, weddings, baptisms, or house blessings, donations to rebuild churches. It is good that the legislator adopted these remarks because it was not true that the believers who donate all this to the church did not know where and what the funds were collected on because in the parishes there are economic and social councils who know all the incomes and expenditures of the funds collected. For funds received from public sources of state and local communities, the obligation to deliver a report on the consumption of those funds remains. According to Articles 32 and 38 of the principle of public service, that is to say, from the obligation to publish the audit report and to publish the annual financial report, trade unions protected by the Convention of the International Labour Organisation have been excluded, guaranteeing them the freedom of association, but it is rather unclear to whom it protects, which the institution protects and employers' associations. It also adopted observations on the proposal for a law in the definition of economic activities in Article 33 which prescribed a threshold of EUR 230 000 of revenue and the obligation to establish a company or other form of association which is not non-profit. In that part, the practice so far remains in line with the Profit Tax Act, according to which all these non-profit organisations are not bonds of profit tax as long as they carry out that activity for which profits are exempt. After the first reading at the Croatian Retirement Party club, a lot of questions came about keeping business books mainly from poor pensioners' associations. Article 9(5) provides that a non-profit organisation is now required in the first three years of its establishment to keep a double accounting, a diary, a master book and an auxiliary book, and in accordance with Article 2(2) of that Article, a legal representative of a non-profit organisation may decide on the conduct of simple accounting if the value of the assets and annual income is less than EUR 230 000 per year. The law therefore provides for the need for full monitoring of the statistics of all non-profit organisations, but nevertheless adjusted to the level of income and the value of their assets. Due to these parameters, part of non-profit organisations will only be able to run simple accounting but will not be released from the obligation to draw up annual financial reports while others will run double accounting with the obligation to draw up quarterly reports. It is also good that remarks on excessive fines have been adopted and up to 500 thousand kuna for all non-profit organisations regardless of the size and financial opportunities. The fine will now amount to between 5 and 200 thousand kunas for non-profit organisations leading double accounting and between thousands and 50 thousand that lead simply to a series of violations in the management of the organisation. The penalty for the violation of the law of a non-profit organisation leading double accounting will now be between 5 and 20 thousand kuna, and a thousand to 10 thousand kunas leading simple accounting. Also, from 10 to 50 thousand shall be fined for a violation of the Head of State Administration or a unit of local and regional (regional) self-government if he approves payment to a non-profit organisation not registered in the register of non-profit organisations. And finally, I agree with my colleague Shucker, who spoke in his debate that it is at least a little unusual to treat the same way rich NK Dinamo and the Retirement Association who barely survive their membership fee. We are pleased that in the final draft of the law, we are also pleased to note the comments of HSU, so the Club of Representatives of HSU will support this final law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87304	Thank you, too. On behalf of SDP representative Ivo Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87305	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. This is the law and its second reading and the law that really shows that two readings make sense and that the comments made on committees here in the assembly to be respected and to fix the law. This law really shows that. We have had financial operations or accounting of non-profit organisations in a certain way, through the Government's accounting regulation of non-profit organisations. Now similar to law-making for a number of reasons and, of course, justifiable. First of all, this law introduces far greater transparency in financial business and the work of all non-profit associations, and we have seen and heard what is their number and what is the huge money that revolves in these organizations. Of course, this will primarily be done in a form through which it will have to submit its financial report for the past year and will be publicly published in the register of non-profit organisations. Of course, there is also the obligation of an audit report for those who have over 10 million kunas and we think it's also fine. This law therefore seeks to introduce far greater transparency and order in the business of non-profit organisations. And what is most important and what is new, which so far has not been resolved by the regulation, which is that it allows for more effective supervision of associations and their work, financial business which has not been the case so far. So all those non-profit organisations that receive or use public money, so far, it is the right of anyone who provides services from the budget of the unit of local self-government, except that they will have to submit a report on it and publicly publish it, and so far it is the right of anyone who provides services so far whose resources are that they have the right to always public insight into it, to exercise control and to practice how these funds are spent and done on the spot, so that in some way inspection supervision is not possible and this is really an important difference and news. Where associations differ and what makes a difference between those who use public money and those who do not. So all will have to teach their report financially and publish in the register but those who use and receive public money, the money from the budget will be able to continuously control and watch and monitor all the time with very good powers and with the possibility of good sanctions. And what is also important that this law allows these are certain criminal penalties for disobeying this law which has not been the case so far. What is an important difference compared to the original proposal from the first reading is that, and this is the result of the debate here in the Assembly, committees etc. that the religious communities do not have to submit their financial report on the consumption of the total funds or on their financial operations and publish in the register what was in the first reading but only for those funds relating to the budget from public sources, which has been so far and what is fine. The same rule applies also to trade unions and employers' associations. And another important news is that the difference in the first reading is also good, and that is that all those associations that carry out in addition to their basic activity are economic activities which, like any other economic activity, are subject to tax control and taxation, will not have to establish a company if the income from that activity is greater than 230 thousand kuna, because there were certain difficulties in the observations, etc. I think they're good changes and they're absolutely fine. What is particularly necessary to highlight, which is that a lot of confusion about this law has been brought into the debate, especially from the beginning when he appeared on purpose or unintendedly about it I do not want to speculate. So about like this now all associations will have to establish companies that were absolutely never in the proposal or anyone else's mind, then what was so far, which is if they are carrying out an economic activity to treat it as an economic activity so as not to be unfair to someone else and that it was in some way tax treatment. And it'll be like that in the future. So there's no other difference. And even if that original proposal remained to start a company, it would again only refer to that activity as an economic activity rather than a basic activity. Therefore, all non-profit organisations can be willing to engage in their activities for which they are established, to have incomes I do not know how much and in millions, so they are not subject to taxation if they are engaged in their basic activities. I said I don't know why many have brought up these confusions, opportunities were like this, statements, announcements, and in public media information whether now the Church will have to pay taxes for what it charges from the funeral or the baptism of children, etc. Neither was it when it came to that, nor was it in the law, and ultimately, what matters most is not at all the subject matter and subject of this law. This law does not deal with taxation at all, that is, any work or non-profit organisations, even when it relates to economic activity. It's regulated by other laws and this one doesn't. But why was that confusion created, manipulation? Good part and intentional, maybe out of ignorance. If it's out of ignorance and it doesn't justify when you go public, you have to be sovereign in what you're saying, and if it was deliberate and evil, then it's another problem and it's even more difficult. Of course this, especially with these political actors, was a long way off because they wanted to do it in every way, and thus to show how this government works, how there's something against someone, and especially against the Church. And we ourselves know that these relationships have long been regulated between the state, the agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Vatican and them, as we can see, are neither subject to change here nor this law. So I think that these changes between the first and second readings are good and that this law is really good because it will finally bring far more order into the business of non-profit organisations because it will enable public insight into which financial resources it has and where it is spent and which will be allowed in some way and control, supervision and criminal penalties for those who do not carry out their job as they belong to those who public money, above all public money, therefore, which they use in an untransparent way or not purposefully. I think there's been enough public objections and dissatisfaction about how he manages these public money. Now here's the tools, here's the chance for the state to get legally involved and deal with it. And finally let me say that in some way I regret those who deliberately made a mistake or a riot about this law that this law will go into account with this or that, that they will tax this or that which is absolutely not true. I repeat, each association if it deals with its activities, if it is humanitarian and is involved in humanitarian work, if it is social and social, if it is sporting to engage in sports activities for that part, therefore it is not an economic activity that is not treated taxfully and is not questionable. No matter how much income these activities had. Also for religious communities, it was neither in the idea that their basic religious activity would somehow come under the influence of tax authorities. That wasn't the case. Why have some of them been false about it, let their misinformation go on their cheeks. But if they have the right to say it, even though I don't agree with them saying it, at least we who are telling the truth should be allowed to do it once and for many times because if a lie that repeats itself repeatedly becomes true, I would therefore, and therefore I advocate that we repeat the truth repeatedly so that the truth becomes true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87306	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Club of Croatian Labourists – Labour parties Nancy Tyreli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87307	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Radjenovic, with his co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. At first, I must honestly admit that this law is being doubled to myself and I don't know if I should say that he's going towards good or he's going towards bad. If we are advocating for transparency, and today we have heard many times that this law is passed most because of the transparency of the work of NGOs or non-financial organisations, then I ask myself why we are doing discrimination and why all those in that register of non-financial organisations do not have the same conditions? I think we should finally make a decision and do an analysis, separate what we need to separate and then decoded and exactly say in a particular register will be those NGOs that don't make a profit and that don't make a profit. And for all those who are in that register, the same rules must apply. We now from a register that has more than 50,000 subjects we read that half of those in the register at the Ministry of Finance are all in the register of the Ministry of Administration and we wonder what and who we control. From the Ministry of Finance and in this bill, we read that the Ministry of Finance has indicators of who, how much and what it does, how much annual income, how many employees there are, how much money there is on the giro-account, how much annual turnover of these associations is, or how much income and expenditure difference, and so on. So something is being controlled, the question is that this law regarding that part of business is getting us new or different. We heard no taxes, no extra taxes. So we don't get anything in that part, but we want transparency. If we want transparency, then part of non-profit organisations that are in the register and refers to religious communities, trade unions and employers' associations are not bonds to show as transparently all that information. I propose that in the register of non-profit organisations there be only those entities in which the law will concern and which are bonds to submit financial reports in this manner as it says here. Let's make a new register of religious communities, make a register of Croatian employers' associations or employers' associations and make a new union register. Let's have three registers, let's have precise rules, and let's not let one law do discrimination again and lead to unequal treatment. It confuses me why we have committed the religious communities only to having to submit financial reports for that part of the funds they receive from local self-government units or from the state budget. In 2010, the State audit wrote the following, given that according to the provisions of the Treaty of the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia on Economic Affairs, the obligations of legal persons of the Catholic Church to respect the law of the Republic of Croatia on financial operations and that according to the home register, they belong to non-profit organisations which are obliged to apply the provisions of the Accounting Regulation of non-profit organisations relating to the management of accounting and financial reporting, the State Audit Office requires in communication with the relevant representatives of the Catholic Church and other religious communities to initiate operations in order to register and draw up and deliver financial reports of those legal persons which meet the criteria laid down in the Regulation. I think that since we're changing the Regulation by law, the same thing would have to apply to this part. On the other hand, in accordance with Article 1. The Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia on Economic Affairs has been laid down that legal persons of the Catholic Church, in accordance with the provisions of the Canonical Law, can freely receive charity and gifts from believers and accept other common forms of contributions of believers to support church institutions. For the purposes of this Article, the provisions of the Tax System of the Republic of Croatia shall not apply to the receipts referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. Thus, the tax system does not apply to the charity and gifts of the believers but to the fees that the Church collects for its services. We all know very well that the Church has its own price list, that the services of the believers are regularly charged and I wonder why all parishes that are registered as legal entities and, in addition, non-profit organisations should not submit financial reports in the same way as anyone else. More than 80% of the believers said they wanted to or would like the financial reports of their parishes to be made public. I'm asking why we've exempt them from this law and we're taking them to the same register. It was about trade unions and employers' unions, so I'm not gonna talk about it anymore. I think we're in this law, or we're trying to make this law very much of a life complicated by those small associations, so let's just say, I'm going to mention the Children's Parents' Association with Special Needs. If they make any revenue greater than 230 thousand kunas, they'll have to run double accounting. They will have to take the person who will most likely have to run their finances because they themselves are overly committed to their children and are overly committed to the work of the association in order to achieve some of the additional rights that belong to them. In this way I ask another question in which way will the work of these 50,000 associations be controlled? Will only the Ministry of Finance really do that? Will these financial reports, if submitted and publicly published in the register, draw out who will be controlled and how? On the other hand, why haven't we done maybe one analysis of these associations themselves? Is it really the same and can we also treat associations that make small incomes in relation to associations that make millions of incomes or incomes? Is it the same way to treat an association that doesn't have a single employee, where volunteers are, because they've teamed up for some needs in relation to those associations that have hundreds of employees? Is the situation really the same, and do we have to treat them the same way? We have restrictions on the revision here, we have restrictions on the income achieved over the year, but I personally think that it is not enough and that this law will only make more riots but definitely riots only to those who are really associated with the associations just so that they can do or get some extra rights, therefore because of some interest whatever these interests are. So far, we have solved this economic part of the associations and those who have carried out additional activities, i.e. activities which were not the purpose of their establishment to which certain profits were made, have been subject to the Law on Profit Tax. So now we've been controlling them, and we're not changing anything. The law states that associations that have no income for more than 230 000 kunas for more than three years can run simple accounting, and in that article, the following article states that newly established associations in the first three years must run double accounting. And now I don't understand, so those who are already working run one-time bookkeeping because they don't have that income of 230 000 kuna, and the new association that's being founded, which doesn't even know what its income will be and what it's going to do next year, or the second or third year, if it's already got to run double accounting. We must clearly and transparently say that all those who establish associations after this law can freely think about one employee because I claim that as many associations as they speak about non-transparency are only here because of small money and only because of some other rights that absolutely have nothing to do with finances. We can't and we can't afford to put everyone in the same basket and treat them all by the same principles because they're not all the same and they're not all the same, especially when we're talking about associations and when we're talking about members of these associations. We have not even made the difference between whether the association is mandatory or a chamber, for example. We also treat the chamber that is mandatory and some association that was founded by two or three of them because of some interest. Personally, I think we're going to do a lot of damage to our associations this way because we treat them equally. I am for transparency, I am, so that the data should be published, but my proposal would be purely human, that indeed those non-profit organisations that are exempt from this law should be exempt from the register of those non-profit organisations and that only those treated in that register should be the same. Anything beyond that, I don't think it's good, and then we can work for those new registers or regulations or laws that would follow those new registers. This is how we do it again, I'll be free to say, the unrest and what my colleague Shucker said in his presentation are those sports associations that we didn't solve all the way. We have associations in small villages that are football clubs that are financed exclusively from municipal budgets, we have those big ones that make millions of revenues, and I think we're doing a bad thing. Transparency could be gained in a very simple way, this law could have only 5 or 6 articles, where it would exactly say that non-profit organisations are kept in a register with the Ministry of Finance, that all associations are obliged to submit an annual financial report which will be publicly published and that any member of any association in that register can take a look at what and how many associations that member has spent. This is how we give them extra jobs, we reintroduce one kind of discrimination, and I personally think that this law will not change anything about any greater control or greater transparency, and I'm afraid that this law will continue to pay a small price for large ones as it does in most cases in our case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87308	Dragan Montenegrin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87309	My colleague Tyrelli, you mentioned this section regarding accounting affairs, that is Article 9(5). Non-profit organisations have been obliged to run double accounting for the first three years since the founding. That tickled me a little too, and that's why I answered the line because we know from practice, as you said, that newly founded associations at the very beginning of action do not have so many resources available to work. When they even report to public tenders from the budget of units of local regional self-government, no one guarantees that they will receive some large resources to work. Most often, let's also say the National Civil Society Development Act gives you one of the conditions that you first have to be able to master as an association so to say by managing a certain number of funds during the years of existence, the first year, the others that you have 30, 50 or 100 thousand kuna etc. Then you meet the condition that you go to this larger tender guaranteeing you that you will receive more funds, i.e. the income of funds. My opinion somewhere is the same on yours that maybe these newly founded associations don't need us to put these particular burdens on them because associations in their very founding essentially don't have the means to work because they're trying to achieve them through some other possible contests, and these are the ones you mentioned, associations for... children with special needs etc. Somewhere I'm here somewhere on your trail, and now if it's possible to work it out somehow, I think it'd be good.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87310	Nancy Tyrelli, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87311	Thank you. And here I am really taking the opportunity to call once again on the legislator to study this article a little bit more closely, in particular this paragraph 2 and teaching it paragraph 5. And here's what I'm glad we're getting along, that's some kind of problem. What I am further concerned about and not being able to say in the debate is the planning of the funds. So the associations are required under this law to plan deadlines, but we haven't said it, and I don't think a large number of members of the association know, they'll also be obliged to do the rebalancing of their own budget plan. So, what this association that is today or two or three months ago founded can exactly plan to win. Local self-government units from the session to the session make decisions on the reduction of some rights already previously granted precisely because the budgets lack money. So, we have a situation that the association plans a year or plans some revenue, and then, during the year, unfortunately, it runs out of those revenues because it's mostly income not only from local administration units but also from donations, so I think that this is going to be done by some kind of plan of activity for next year, a financial plan of activity that really decided them we're going to win this year we don't know now 100,000 kuna donations. Does that really mean that they'll have to rebalance every year if these revenues aren't the way they planned them? And then normally, in these now criminal provisions, they also have certain sanctions if accounting is not guided by accounting principles.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87312	A colleague of Sonja König, 5 minutes of debate on behalf of the HNS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87313	Thank you very much for the well-respected vice president of our Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Radenovic, with a co-worker. We also commend as a HNS club we support the aim of the proposed law, which is to regulate the system of financial operations of non-profit organisations. We have already heard that the existing regulation has not adequately responded to the requirements for applying the principle of public and transparency particularly in the part of the financial reporting. So far, it has not been possible to prescribe infringement provisions for the purpose of the untimely handover of financial reports. And as always, some have taken advantage of it. Some have simply disobeyed the existing regulation. Now they're going to have to take a little different care of that, now they're going to have to pay the fines prescribed here by this proposed law. Our citizens rightly ask those who do not publish their financial data whether they are sports associations, whether they are dealing with human rights, whether they are unions, whether they are religious communities, and they are drilling in the chest with their transparency and honesty. Why don't you publish the financial data, what you spend our money on, what you're afraid of, how much money you get, why for some of you we can only estimate how much money you get. It is estimated, for example, that only the Catholic Church accounts annually at various levels and sources for 1 billion kunas. Which is why someone who works transparently would not publicly publish data such as most institutions' data transparent, such as state and local self-government and public sector data. That's the way it's supposed to be. This reduces the possibility of using funds in a non-transparent way. This reduces, of course, the possibility of corruption. And precisely because they remove any suspicion of transparency they would expect from all those not covered by this law to propose themselves, to propose themselves that they be part of the obligations and rights prescribed by this law either by the trade union or by the religious community. In fact, religious communities are not obliged to submit financial reports on total revenues, but only on the spending of budgets, resulting in the principle of transparency and accountability not in relation to religious communities. But we call upon them as besides, and all those who, possibly by this law, are not covered by their pure cheeks to act according to his principles and goals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87314	Young Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87315	Here's my colleague, she was clean in her first reading if I'm not wrong about that, about public announcements of the union's finances. The trade unions receive exclusively from membership fees, have no other income, and each member of the union has the right to gain insight into the finances of their union, and the Convention of International Labour Organisation is exactly that part protected by the reason that the employer as such and is not the only employer where workers go on strike, but there were examples that the trade unions paid their salaries to their workers, those who, their members, were on strike. And that's the only reason, and it's not a big deal, the International Labour Organisation took that into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87316	Sanja König, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87317	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of our Parliament. Comrade Novak, if that's how it is, there's nothing to be afraid of, let him publish his data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87318	Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radjenovic's closing statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87319	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here's really in one, two sentences I'd like to thank all the clubs. I see there's a growing number of clubs, ten of them. I believe that all clubs have applied and with less benevolent remarks, we have heard that this law will be supported. I think we've taken a step towards transparency, towards the openness of this bill. And I'm saying, after a hot debate, if you all remember February 4th, if I'm not mistaken, we've been arguing for 7 hours. There's been a lot of misunderstanding about what and how it's actually said, that this law might be a good example of how one can still take a step forward without being too many victims. There are a few open questions left, and not all questions can be solved by this law. Mrs. Tyrelli also spoke of religious communities. Mrs. Koöning at the end about unions. They have arguments for and against. I think we found, that we found at this hour to say an optimal solution, doesn't mean I say and the law allows if they want everyone to publish it, the unions of their open reports urbia et orbi, so here I can also call if I say they have that interest in doing so. It's not a problem... The last thing he said, and his colleague Novak is standing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm saying our argument was that in no way can we be, I ask a milder word than the accused, in some way accused of preventing development and unions in each, in the ability to therefore strengthen their negotiating power. What may be interesting is that in the current law and under the regulation, several parishes and several religious communities reported, had and handed over their registers, their financial reports in the register of so far. In previous years, this has happened, according to this and obviously not there, and there are some who want to be more transparent than others, but I say it is darkness, remember you and memos and practically all the religious communities in the Republic of Croatia were at the moment asking it not to happen. What's primary and what I might actually want to replicate directly, but here in this final word, let me also tell Mrs. Tyrell that we're going to do it now, and that's what my colleague Shucker spent outside the HDZ club, whether the finance ministry is now being capacity-based to check all these reports financially in a quality way. Well, yes, this is a step forward, precisely this transparency and responsibility to all bring financial reports, to us with our tools and development technology, and by developing all our internal controls, we recognize them just as well as entrepreneurs. It is not tax administration or customs administration that goes to every single day to check that each account is actually recorded properly, but this tool will allow us to when we put everything together to set priorities and really not go in a way to make it a cheif, to make that decision subjective, to react only to certain memos or to say to the will and subjectivity of people who can make such decisions. It is that by looking at the whole picture, the system determines what is more important and what is less important and on this side we will also have this register of non-profit associations, i.e. all their financial reports allow us to set priorities and where things really don't look absolutely transparent or where they look more non-transparent than others, to go there first and to really check people's attention to a good master with the means that in the most part, and that's one new topic and get out of state and local budgets, and that's a really important topic. Here, in the final sentence, thanks again to everyone for participating in the debate, we've all worked hard together, it's been, like, nine, ten months since the law started. There was then both a live and public debate, and a lot of misunderstandings. I believe this law will tomorrow be accepted by the great majority, but if not by all votes. And therefore, thank you for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87320	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill as said tomorrow. Final draft law on financing, financial operations and accounting of non-profit organisations, second reading, P.Z. No. 611. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I ask Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radinovic to plead with the amendments. Amendment 1 to Article 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87322	Amendment number one of the Legislative Committees is hereby adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87323	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment two to Article 31
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87324	Amendment number two, we accept in part. We accept the part of the amendment relating to Article 31(3), while part of the amendment relating to Article 31(2) cannot be accepted, as the adoption of this part of the amendment would leave clear guidance on how to draw up annual financial reports. In fact, we agree that this is a slightly clumsy formulation, but accounting is clear to the accountants, so we cannot accept that part of Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87325	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87326	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87327	The amendment has been accepted in part and becomes an integral part of the law. I Amendment 3 to Article 43.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87328	Amendment number three, we accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87329	It becomes an integral part of the law. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that most votes, 102 for, 1 against, 1 abstention, are passed by Law P.Z. No. 611. We move on to: - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Taxation of Income Taxation of Guernsey and the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR. 696. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Reports you received at the session. Deputy Minister, will you explain the proposal? Yeah. Igor Radjenovic, deputy finance minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87331	Thank you very much. Really in the shortest lines, Madam Vice President. It's about one of the type agreements, i.e. of the type-approval laws concerning the establishment of an automatic exchange of information between the Republic of Croatia and Guernsey on paid savings interest for the purpose of taxing interest in that country in which the foreign user... The aim of this normative solution is to combat tax returns and evasion, and to protect the EU's financial interests through the protection of the financial interests of Member States and to implement the principle of justice in taxation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, with the most important agreements on avoidance of double taxation that Croatia has 57 today, this agreement has been concluded by the Directive and the EU since 2003, and with all countries, Croatia has therefore practically concluded such agreements, but also with five countries, with neighbouring EU countries Switzerland, Andorra, Monaco, Linhenstein and San Marino, who have agreed as such, although EU members have not agreed to be on this issue with the EU on tax issues. These ten significant dependent and associated areas of the Member States remain which we must conclude these contracts. So these are individual procedures, we don't depend on the capacity of our administration, but the council brings us a rhythm to say so. We signed six contracts with those states. We still have contracts left for, that I owe Mr. Maric who asked me on the board, for the island of Mandate-Immunity Commission, Anquia, for the British Virgin Islands and for Montserrat. And we'll believe that we'll do it relatively quickly. Just so you know, we signed a contract with a country that belongs, I actually believe you'll give consent to the law on the conclusion of an agreement with a country belonging to the British Crown Area, so directly under the Queen, not in the UK. 78 square kilometers, there are 65,000 inhabitants, the second largest Canal island, the one in La Manche after Guernsey the second largest. Thank you very much. I believe this proposal will also receive unanimous support.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87332	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill tomorrow. We're not going to discuss today the Final Proposal of the Financial Affairs Act, I'm sorry, about the protection of monetary institutions, we'll discuss it tomorrow. Final proposal of the law on the confirmation of the Income Taxation Agreement between Guernsey and the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 696. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find it unanimous with 104 votes to pass the P.Z. Act. No. 696.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87335	Thank you very much. The Commission therefore considers that the measures provided for in this The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act of 2013 has been prescribed the obligation of the Minister of Health to propose to the Croatian Assembly the appointment of a new National Health Council. Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2013, p. 1). The Health Protection Act is prescribed that the National Health Council numbers 9 members of which at least 40% of the persons of the sub-represented sex appointed and resolved by the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the Minister from the ranks of prominent experts in individual medical professions. According to the above provisions, the Minister of Health sent the Croatian Assembly a proposal from members of the new National Health Council so that the Croatian Parliament could appoint a new National Health Council. For members of the National Health Council for the term of office of 4 years, it is named academician Paul Rudan, so this is the proposal of Prof. Dr.sc. Rajko Ostojić, Prof. Dr.sc Vesna Šerić, Prof. Dr.sc. Dubravka Jurisic Eržen, prof. dr.sc. Sven Kurbel, Prof. Dr. Sc. Darko Duplancic, prof. dr.sc. Ivana Curković Bagici Prof. Dr.sc Dunja Rogiæ you Anna Ljubas. Here's the advantage of a woman's sex compared to a man's this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87336	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Health and Social Policy, Committee Chairman Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87337	Thank you, Madam Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Health and Social Policy discussed this proposal at its 52nd session held on 24 September as the home working body. The debate concluded that the proposal provides exactly what the aim is to allow the proposal of expert opinions in the area of programming for development and other important health issues that are important for the Republic of Croatia. All professions are represented, all regions are represented and, therefore, after the debate, this proposal has been voted in favour of the majority of votes, 8 votes in favour and 1 abstention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87338	I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club Vice-President Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87339	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister. I would like to start by saying that HDZ will not dispute the election of members of the new National Health Council. In fact, although almost all the members proposed in the National Health Council or members of the SDP are either very close to the SDP, they are all without any doubt experts in the field of medicine, and most of the applicants have been elected to high scientific teaching. Therefore, even though it is clear that they are primarily elected by the criteria of their membership in a party or party similarity, the fact is that they are qualified to be members of the National Health Council. That is why we will not dispute the election because it is very different from the election of tens of not hundreds but thousands of likers who have spent over the past three years by the ruling SDP-led coalition putting their people on a number of functions at all levels in this country. When we just remember that, for example, in one of the largest and most significant companies owned by the state that deals with energy for the director of the procurement sector, they have appointed a graduate veterinarian, that a person with a reference to the fact that she was the owner of a tailoring shop specialising in weddings, that veterinarians, every honour to those who are friends here and me, are appointed directors of retirement homes, etc., etc. So when we are aware of a series of such examples that have been published in the media while there must be an incomparably greater number of those who have not been made public so far then this selection of members of the National Health Council is nevertheless a step forward. They are finally highly qualified and professional. What is important, however, is what will actually and how will this new and politically similar National Health Council do, and will it have any influence? In fact, the current National Health Council has obviously not been sufficiently politically related to the development of health care or any important issue in the field of organisation and the functioning of health has had absolutely no impact. However, since participation in any such event or document adoption, it has been carefully and permanently very successfully isolated and removed. Although the National Health Council regularly met once a month and discussed the items sent to it by the Ministry of Health, the verification of these centres, and the assessment of the conditions for clinics, and, more recently, the provision of the relevant regulation should give an opinion on gender change. Such activity, although where the scale is large, is in fact a mere routine of a regular administrative type who could and should be able to perform an official at the Ministry of Health, perhaps even only the ESS, and it was certainly not appropriate for the National Health Council to be composed and, so far, mainly of university professors, to the extent necessary to fulfil its tasks as a body in charge of strategic consideration of the health system. In accordance with Article 155 of the basic Regulation, the Commission The Law on Health Protection of the National Health Council, which is appointed by the Croatian Assembly, primarily exists, I quote "to study health problems, give and propose expert opinions in the field of planning, programming, development and other important health issues which are important for the Republic of Croatia". Since the National Health Council has not received a debate in the past three years from the Ministry of Health literally no single document concerning the creation of organisational changes in the health system, planning, development of the health system, the production of legal and sublegal acts or anything like that. Frustrated by this, the National Health Council, on several occasions, addressed the Minister of Health in writing asking him to participate in the creation of such documents or to have at least such documents delivered to him before journalists and to the general public. The members of the National Health Council considered that they could only make their own active contribution to the thinking of developing and improving the health care system in Croatia while at the same time performing their tasks fully under the provisions of the law. Unfortunately, no such letter from the National Health Council received an answer from the health minister. The National Health Council in the previous composition has not been given the opportunity to discuss a national health development strategy in 2012 until 2020, which should be a key and basic document in the area of planning and development of health care in Croatia. The National Health Council in the previous composition was also not given the opportunity to discuss either the earlier version of the national plan for the development of clinical hospital centres, clinical hospitals, clinics and general hospitals in the Republic of Croatia 2014 to 2016 a popular and very correct Croatian master plan for hospitals prepared by the previous Minister of Health as well as the newer version prepared by the current Minister of Health, which is likely to be in the parliamentary procedure soon, and this document should probably be an important strategic, i.e. programme document for improving the health system in Croatia. It is likely that the explanation of such a relationship is i.e. The full ignoring of the National Health Council in the previous composition was not party-like, so there must have been a fear that it might be able to make some critical remarks about certain perfect documents that have so successfully and significantly improved Croatian health care over the past 3 years. These successes, especially with regard to the financial balance of the health system, we have the opportunity to witness every day, and especially those fantastic successes that the SDP-led coalition has achieved in health care are particularly well felt by patients who need medical services. We therefore earnestly hope that this new proposed future composition of the National Health Council, given that it is similar to most of them, will discuss all important documents for Croatian health care, that its opinion will be respected and that it will be allowed to fulfil its tasks set by law to the National Health Council and not simply be allowed to do a ground-based administrative routine, which was condemned against its will by the Council in the previous composition. The HDZ Club really wants this from the new members of the Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87340	Thank you. Željko Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87341	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I must react and say that their election and proposal absolutely did not take into account whether they were politically active, in which they are foreigners, but only to be experts and to contribute through the work of this National Council to what their task as an advisory body is to quality the thinking of health policy. And if we look at the other national councils that appointed this House, as the National Council for Higher Education, the National Council for Education and Education has always been the sole criterion of expertise. And the political resemblance was not taken into account at all, it was probably at the time of counterpart Reiner when they determined the National Council and led by that opinion he believes that it is now doing so. He's wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87342	Vice President Zeljko Reiner, reply to the replica. My colleague Jovanovic, turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87343	Thank you very much. My colleague Jovanovic, because of the dignity of the members who are proposed and as I said they are all professional, they have all, most of them achieved top positions, scientific teaching, of course I have no idea that I can analyze a member per member. But you and I both know very well that what I said is absolutely correct. And whatever you're saying now, of course, they won't be able to dispute it in any way. You and I know that very well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87344	I'm closing the debate. ... Final, Deputy Minister of Health Marian Cesarik please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87345	Well, here I would finally, on behalf of the Minister of Health and my personal name, thank all the members of the National Health Council that have contributed to this past period and worked extremely well. I also thank Academyman Reiner, he was a member of the National Health Council, and he also praised the expertise of these new members. And I found it interesting to comment on health care doctors. So here I would say just let me finally say that along with many epidemiologists, public health experts in Požega-Slavon County at the head of the County Public Health Institute have been brought by a veterinarian. Well, you see, there's always room for them. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87346	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the motion for a decision tomorrow. Proposal for a National Health Council. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that most of the 84 votes for and 20 abstentions have been passed the National Health Council proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87349	We will now discuss: - A) Proposal for a Decision on the resolution of a member of the National Council for Human Resources Development; B) Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the National Council for Human Resources Development; Proposer of Decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 10. Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework. You've received the motion for an act. Introducing proposals, the Decision will explain to us the Deputy Minister of Science, Education and Sports Prof. Dr. Rocco Andricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87350	I'd like to thank the vice president, the honourable MPs. The resolution of Ms Irena Bacelic as members of the National Council for Human Resources Development is proposed. Ms. Bacelic was appointed as representative of the Croatian Employment Service, she moved to a new post and is in accordance with Article 10(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework asked for a membership in the National Council for the Development of Human Potentials. The Croatian Employment Institute, instead of Mrs Bacelic, has proposed to appoint as its representative Mrs Mirjana Zacirevic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87351	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the motions for a decision tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87352	And we will also discuss - Proposal for a decision on the discharge of the Deputy Advocate General's Deputy Attorney-General is the Advocate General on the basis of Articles 14(4) and 5. The law of the Attorney General. The motion for an act has been accepted. Introductoryly, the draft decision will be made by the Ombudsman, Ms. Lora Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87353	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on the Advocate General prescribes that the Croatian Assembly will discharge the duties of Deputy Advocate General before the end of the time it was elected if it so requests. Following this and the basis of Mrs. Jagoda Novak's personal request and the provisions of the Law on the Ombudsman of the People's Army which prescribes that the Deputy Advocate General is dismissed by the Croatian Assembly on the basis of a proposal from the Ombudsman, I propose that the Croatian Parliament of Mrs. Jagoda Novak discharge the responsibilities of the Deputy Advocate General on her personal request. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87354	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, colleague Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87355	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed Ombudsman, co-workers and colleagues. The proposal for a decision to resolve the deputy deputy attorney general who was delivered to us and which we are now discussing at first glance seems to be a mere formality although the text of the proposal itself is not complete. Therefore, as can be seen from the text of the proposed decision, there is no date for the replacement of the Advocate General to be resolved on a personal request. That formal flaw is removable. However, in my debate, I would like to point to another dimension that is important when considering this decision. It is not disputed that, according to Article 14(4), The Law on the Advocate General of the Republic of Croatia resolves the Croatian Assembly on the proposal of the Advocate General. It is true, and that is what the Ombudsman is now talking about, in paragraph 5 of the same article, that the Croatian Parliament will discharge the responsibilities of the deputy attorney general before the time she was elected if she asks for it. However, we find out from the letter of the authorised proponent of this decision by the Ombudsman, who delivered it to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 15 September this year only that her deputy, Mrs. Jagoda Novak, has submitted a motion for resolution. The very text of the Ombudsman’s letter does not reveal the real reasons that have actually preceded this motion for resolution, and the reasons for submitting applications for the release of the deputy attorney general are very interesting and we should not be silent to accept them. Namely, as far as I know, and it would be good to know everyone here in the Croatian Assembly of the Deputy Attorney General Mrs. Jagoda Novak sent a letter to the President of the Croatian Parliament with a date of September 1st this year asking to be released from duty on a personal request. However, she also cites the reasons for her decision to make such a move. It's in the letter amongst other things. "I have tried to make my maximum professional human contribution to the development of the Office of the Public Advocates in an independent, high-quality, public-recognizable institution that consistently promotes and protects human rights. During his work in the office, however, there was a continuing and ever-intensed difference in the understanding of the role of the institution and the concept of work between me and the attorney general. Despite our attempts, these differences have failed to reconcile to the well-being of the institution. Various views related to showing independence in relation to state bodies, the openness and visibility of the institution in relation to citizens who serve a relationship with interested domestic and international stakeholders and civil society. Determination of the priorities of the institution in promoting human rights, as well as organisational decisions and issues of the use of human potential, trust in people and services, and the development of human relations, which is unusually important to an institution that protects and promotes human rights in my court. While estimating the fact that the attorney general has expressed his will to me the confidence of the foundation of my work so far proposed my appointment on a duty that I took seriously and came to her without delay, after which I consider this House of the High to be necessary and logical to step down from my duties in a situation in which the relations we have established do not benefit the institutions themselves, nor are they favourable to my personal, professional development and public function performance." From this little longer quote, it is clear that the reasons for the resignation of the deputy deputy attorney general are not banal, but that they are extremely serious and point to the conceptal differences in roles and methods of the institution of the attorney general. And these conceptual differences should be presented to representatives of the Croatian Parliament. For let us not forget that according to the Law on the Ombudsman, the Ombudsman is the author of the Croatian Parliament for the Promotion, Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms established by the Constitution, the laws and international acts on human rights and freedoms adopted by the Republic of Croatia. The Ombudsman also promotes and protects human rights and freedoms, and the rule of law, monitors the situation and points to the need to protect human rights and freedoms, and informs the public in a timely and regular manner and for interested participants, etc. Also, in his work, the Ombudsman is independent and independent, and every form of influence on the work of the Ombudsman is prohibited. In fact, it would be interesting to hear and find out what these conceptual differences consisted of in understanding the role of the institution of the occupier between the attorney general and her deputy. I would like to remind you that in July of last year's proposal for the appointment of her deputy, Ms. Jagoda Novak, in particular, pointed out that she is proposing this duty in view of her long-standing experience in the field of human rights, and that the scope of her action was research and promotion of a large number of subjects in the field of human rights, and that she is giving a new dimension and breadth in respect of human rights. While at the Centre for Human Rights, Ms. Jagoda Novak, among other things, pointed out that there was an erosion of economic and social rights due to the high unemployment in Croatia, holding that these rights should be given much, much more attention. It would be interesting to find out whether it was precisely from her claim that the Office of the Public Attorney's Office also directed to the protection of the constitution of guaranteed economic and social rights had come to a dissension in the conduct of the Ombudsman's Office. And let me remind you, this is what I was also talking about in the debate on the report on the work of the Ombudsman, that it is a fundamental human right to work and freedom of work, that every employee has the right to earn himself and his family a free and decent life, that the weaker, the impossible and the other, because of unemployment or inability to work on unsecured persons of the state provides the right to assist in the settlement of the basic needs of life. It should not be pointed out at all that unfortunately in Croatia these rights are mass-absorbed and that in search of work and ensuring a decent life for themselves and for their family many, especially young and educated people, have left the Republic of Croatia mass, and we have not heard of the problem being addressed by the Ombudsman. We also witness that the attorney general has not responded or responded, that is to say, to protect the constitutional right to education that is available to everyone under equal conditions, and that compulsory education is free of charge. And we have witnessed that primary and secondary education in the Republic of Croatia is not available to all under equal conditions. Thus, some students received free textbooks that allowed them to have their municipality or city while some from poorer towns and municipalities, regardless of their economic or social status, had to buy textbooks at full cost. I could count on it further, but I think this is enough. If the representatives of the Croatian Parliament had received a letter from the Deputy Advocate General to the President of the Croatian Parliament, and given the content of this letter, our Committees on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, as well as the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, might have found the necessary debate on the reasons for the resignation of the Deputy Advocate General and the initiation of the debate in this House on the role of the Advocate General as the authority of the Croatian Parliament for the promotion and protection of human rights and freedoms. Perhaps it was necessary to call on the Deputy Attorney General and the Advocate General to give the oral reasons for the role of the Ombudsman's Office and to take a clear position in this House. Only in this way could we strengthen the role of the Ombudsman and improve his visibility as an institution that cares about the protection of human rights and freedom of Croatian citizens. Since the attorney general is here with us tonight, it might be good for us to hear from her what kind of dispute it was, to understand the role of the Attorney General's Office between her and here's your deputy, whose resolution you're proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87356	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the motion for a decision tomorrow. Now a deal for tomorrow's work. You wanted to finish? Here you go, Mrs. Laura Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87357	In short, I would perhaps finally look back on some of the topics Mr. Babic pointed out. This is, of course, not a debate on the report on the work of the Ombudsman, so I am not going to talk about the topics you mentioned, especially those topics that are not normally part of the work of the attorney general, but other specialised lawyers. As far as the motion for a decision that you say is incomplete. It's about the sprawl I received in the professional service and passed it on to the Professional Service of the Parliament. I guess the date wasn't written because we couldn't predict which date the decision would take effect. So I guess that'll be the date of the vote. But I really don't know that. As for your questioning of the conceptal reasons and the reason why my deputy resigned on a personal request I cannot, of course, speak of them and do not want to speak on top of what she mentioned herself in the letter you quoted. What I can say from my perspective is that there were really conceptual considerations at the very beginning, since the Croatian Parliament appoints only one female lawyer, not many, and this one takes responsibility. I certainly believe that the concept I presented and the way I run the office is one that has the support of the Croatian Parliament. One of them is, for example, the opening of regional offices that I stand for and that I hope will be realised by the end of this month, in any case by the end of this year. I think it finally happened within this year after my argument from last year to one discrepancies in the functioning of the state administration system especially in the management position and that in fact the largest number of reasons was due, the difference occurred especially as regards the quantity of performance of the work assignments compared to the expectations that I had. As far as the office is concerned, what I have to say is that the department of promotion led by the deputy is still working on strengthening it. At this point I will take that role, and in any case reinforcement we see through the expansion of regional offices and work on the ground. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87358	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87359	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. I'm not going to read to you again the actual reasons of your deputy's resignation because I've already done it, but it's obvious that these reasonings that took place at the Attorney General's office, or you yourself, were obviously great because she resigned herself or requested her resolution. It is possible that what you say is that even non-compliance in the management of the public administration, however, your deputy, Mrs. Novak, here is not at all bickering or speaking. What is important is to re-emphasis you are as an institution of authority of the Croatian Parliament and it would be good if all MPs actually got the reasons for this resignation. I think the MPs deserve it. Here, that's what this was about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87360	But a colleague of the lady's resigned, we can't get into the reasons for her resignation. We can only accept them as she wrote them. Dragan Montenegrin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87361	Here's Mrs. Vidovic, I have nothing else to say but to support what you said and we will support your proposal to resolve on a personal request. I think it is an absolute position that, as you have stated under the law that you are, so to speak, the authority itself responsible for the functioning of the Attorney General's Office with your other deputies or police attorneys, as well as your assistants, I think that you must take the most care of the Attorney General's Office as far as it is concerned. We've been working so far, and I'd like to say to these findings that we've heard tonight, I can't say any objections absolutely to the work of the attorney general. But it is understandable to me why this debate is being held because I, as I recall, did not vote for your election at all. So those who could decide they left this assembly. So I understand why these indications are now, but if someone wants the current attorney general no longer to be the attorney general so let's get that initiative started. I think as far as this is concerned, it's absolutely there and in law, so someone on their own personal request has the right to leave that position. You suggested that person, you believed in that person. The reasons why this occurred are whether from a personal nature, health or inability to function again it is up to you to suggest it to the person himself. And I don't think there's any need to manipulate that, and that's where all the debates need to be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-02-0.u87362	I now conclude the debate and we will vote tomorrow on the motion for a decision. And tomorrow at 9.30 we will first vote on the debated points, then we will discuss the proposal for a Decision on the adoption of a spatial plan of the Park of Nature Žumberak-Somborsko gorje and a proposal for a Law on the Protection of Monetary Institutions. And since many colleagues and colleagues are asking for next week, we'll be working on Thursday and Friday. We will continue the session on Thursday and Friday, and on Wednesday at 4:00 a.m. there will be a session. Proposal for a decision to relieve the deputy attorney general. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that most of the votes, 84 for, 20 abstentions, have made a decision on the resolution of Jagoda Novak from the deputy deputy attorney general's office.
