ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-04-0.u76956	My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good day and we will continue our work. We will discuss two reports - (a) The report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under the legal authority - (b) The report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the material. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Health and Social Policy and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. You received their reports at the session. The applicant’s representatives consider that no introductory report should be submitted. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-04-0.u76957	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Gentlemen, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. So we have two reports before us from the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the regulations that the government has adopted on the basis of legal powers. However, what the law says and what regulations are and when the best speeches are made are actually how the government works, how the government works, and how the government does not have the courage to propose a certain decision at the moment when the crown documents are made, which is primarily the budget or budget rebalance for the next year or the current year. Therefore, Article 3 states that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will submit to the Croatian Parliament a report on the adoption of a regulation immediately after its adoption at each meeting of the Croatian Parliament a report on the regulations adopted under the powers laid down in Article 1 of this Act between the two meetings of the Croatian Parliament, i.e. the first session of the newly elected Parliament and the report on the regulations adopted from the date of the last report. So that's what should be under the law. And what do we have today? So today we have one report from September 12, 2013. In the meantime, we had one or two rebalancings and we had the adoption of a state budget, and these are the regulations that were adopted in that summer session, so the regulation amending the Law on residence tax because it is very interesting that the person who proposed the Law on residence tax did not know in the 5th or 6th month that the Croatian tourist season was and that the boom of the tourist season in Croatia was just the 7th and 8th month, and then in the break when the Parliament did not meet, between 15th and 15th of September, it was necessary to adopt a regulation that would change something about tourist fees. The regulation amending the Law on textbooks in primary and secondary schools, yes, the school year in Croatia does not begin at the beginning of the 9th month, it was exceptional last year and whoever proposed this regulation did not know that it should have been done in the 6th or 7th month, that all those to whom this regulation or later the law would apply for it. Regulation amending the efficient use of energy in direct consumption, supplementing the Pension Insurance Act, the Regulation amending the Financial Business Act and the pre-profit settlement and the Regulation amending the Law on the Promotion of Entrepreneurship Infrastructure. This Law on Pre-departure settlement, which we practically brought to the consensus in the first reading, is very interesting that in 6 months it has been amended and its key provisions have been amended by regulations. Do not forget that regulation, which was adopted only a week of 2012 at the 12th month following the end of the session of the Parliament, which, if I am not mistaken, changed that basic law that we voted for. After all, she changed a lot about pre-fashion settlements and then after six months, seven months of the exact same thing happening. We stop sitting 15.7., the government makes a regulation that changes that law again. So it's not the law that happens overnight and the processes that happen overnight in order for certain shortcomings observed during the application of the law to have to change backwards, so they could change either in the regular session until 15.7. or the character of their changes was such that they could wait for a regular session there, let's say, 20.9. and then change. But I'm saying, some things are very interesting. Also, the Law on the promotion of entrepreneurship infrastructure, listen to me already, I don't know how many laws and how many of these entrepreneurial infrastructures were in this House, and we in Croatia have the situation that we have. We have no investment, our number of unemployed is growing, we have a continuing GDP drop, but it was necessary and urgent to change the Law on Entrepreneurship Infrastructure in the summer stop of the Parliament by means of a regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So colleagues and colleagues, all of these September regulations that came to the Croatian Parliament, we corrected through legal proposals in this House. And why was I saying all this? Well, because in December 2013, we have identical things happening to us again. So again, we have the Law amending the Law on residence. Because it was simply not known to change until December 15, and then there was a great hurry for this regulation to change immediately one week or 10 days after the meeting of the Parliament. Then again, we have the Law of Change on residence tax, had the Act on Complementary of the Law on Games on Happiness. So this law of chance has changed where certain things have been abolished. It was also extended to those performing the work until the end of 2013 so that they could carry out the work. And now look, we're making a budget. One of the key items in the budget is the revenue from gambling. And the logical thing is that all laws affecting both the expenditure and the revenue side of the budget are passed before the budget is adopted. For the simple reason that the government plans to earn such expenditure on the basis of existing legislation. So, if the government didn't know that it would have to extend the possibility of throwing games to those automatic clubs by the end of 2014, hoping to pass a new Law on Games on Happiness then how could she plan and based on what she could plan revenues in the state budget with the basis of games on the basis of automatic clubs. But I'm saying, it's very interesting why such timing. The Regulation amending and supplementing the Law shall deny the payment of certain material rights to public service employees. And now look at your colleagues and colleagues, in this Act, on this regulation on the remuneration of certain material rights of public service employees is very interesting. Do you know what you have in mind? You have a summary of the reasons for the adoption of the state budget. That's your nickname. Why is this Regulation adopted? So someone at the time of the state budget knew they'd bring this in because they didn't plan on it, but they didn't have the courage to say it. Why? Therefore, if the law were discussed in this House of Highs, it would likely cause far more public attention, there would be far more debate. But if you bring a regulation between Christmas and New Year's Eve, then it goes like that in some holiday mood, and practically no one sees it, except for those who don't get the money they're supposed to get. Therefore, the Regulation says that they deny the payment of certain material rights of employees in public services, said Article 2 beyond the words 2012, 2013 is replaced by the words 2012, 2013, 2014. And it was passed on December 27th. Now, look at your colleagues and colleagues, if we were to adhere to the strict provisions of the Budget Law, then the question arises why is the one who proposes this regulation not at the moment of proposing the state budget to the public telling the public that it has not provided the funds for it. Therefore, the reason for this Regulation is not because it is defined by law when certain legal matters can be defined by regulations at a time when the Assembly is not in session but has been adopted for a completely different reason. And that's what's not good. It's not good because it's repeated year after year and because the government obviously doesn't have the courage. And that's the best indicator that you have yesterday's government decision on this re-use of official cars. I think it will learn in history that when you can't admit your own mistake then you go with a decision like this where you pass things on to someone else. However, there are a number of other questions that could be asked. But I say it best shows how someone floats lost and doesn't know what they'll bring. And another regulation that was adopted at the end of 2013, the Regulation amending the Health Protection Act. Look Croatians were extremely healthy in 2013, Croatian healthcare had no problems. Similarly, when the state budget was adopted, we were assured that health care was fully rehabilitated in 2013, that there were no debts, that health care was financed with reduced resources. And then you get a rebalance of the state budget in the 2nd month of 2014 and then you suddenly get a health recovery in 2013 and before we get the information that everything is paid and that there are no debts. But there is also a terrible need for a regulation on the Health Protection Act to be adopted at the moment when the Parliament does not meet. And let me get this straight. So, there were never so many key regulations at the time when the Parliament didn't sit. However, these regulations have their own marketing, PR story, etc. They were usually brought in during a period when the public was directed at something else, directed at something else, thinking about something else. And so there's no reaction to what she'd normally be like. And by the time the law comes to Parliament, that is, what the people say about the fallen sword. No one thinks about it anymore. Those who have lost certain rights have regretted it. So that initial attack and impact is mildly dulled and we are in principle today when you look at how many of us have applied for the debate or we are not discussing what it is. However, all those who were damaged by these regulations felt it very much. Thus, a rule that simply is not good is clear by law when the government can solve certain problems by regulation. But it is particularly not good that certain problems which are highly tangling the state budget, and colleagues and colleagues if you have seen it today in the media and that is the only information available, Brussels is not very excited and is not too satisfied with the budget rebalance. Now, look, if you are changing certain things with these regulations that are clearly tagging the spending side of the state budget, and everyone knows that at the moment of budgeting, this budget is not a long time and it is not sustainable, then after 3 months, we bring a budget rebalance which also wants to be resolved by some one-time procedures and moves, it is no wonder that we got a repack from Brussels again. And once again, someone tells us that we need to arrange our own house. But I think whoever takes care of his house knows best, you should know best how to fix your house. Unfortunately, though, we don't have it. And the confirmation of all of these are together these regulations and they are not at all benign and unfortunately it is not good that we Parliamentarians go over them as if nothing had happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-04-0.u76958	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-04-0.u76959	Dear fellow Shuker, you said somewhere at the end of your debate that there were never so many important regulations at the time until the Parliament was in session. I completely agree with you. However, this is an old pain, and during HDZ's time there were some regulations that would certainly have been better off if the Parliament had passed laws, that the parliament had discussed it and that it had been presented in another way to the public. But lately, the Parliament has completely skipped. At the time of the Kukuriku Coalition, the Parliament was pushed to the margins and what you were saying and this knowledge that we have in which the relationship between the Parliament and the Government only proves that the the thesis that we talked about in the Assembly several times was that the office system is at work, that we are just a fig leaf and that actually the government on the other side of Mark's square is so bad from the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I think the Kukuriku coalition should ask, in particular, the parliamentary representatives, if that's the case because the chicken branch and which one they're sitting on.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-04-0.u76960	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-04-0.u76961	That fellow Vuksic, when you look at the agenda since we started sitting on January 20th until today or when you look at what we have on the agenda at the moment, it is the best indicator of how the government is doing. If it hadn't been for budget rebalances and two, three laws related to that budget rebalancing, we practically didn't have any to say the serious law. And when someone looks at the side, it would get the impression that the Croatian state, which has no problems, which based on the applicable legal rules, is great at swimming, has very low unemployment, has a high standard, has GDP growth. So that would be read. On the other hand, one negative picture of the Parliament is sent, parliamentary representatives are unemployed, such as this, however, parliamentary deputies do what the government sends them because the government is the legislator. But it is very interesting that at this moment we have the agenda we have but you will see what will happen in the summer between 15th of July and 20th of September as many important laws without which Croatia simply will not be able to function at the summer stop through the regulations. And that's what's not good. I only mentioned some of these laws. Why? Because some of them directly rank 80,000, actually 160,000 public service employees, and that's certainly not a negligible number. It is not a negligible number when we look at how many citizens of the Republic of Croatia are, it is also not negligible to the fiscal effect of these 180 thousand employees because when you look at health and education, it is about 34.35 billion kuna of the state budget. And if this is how you treat teams that should practically produce something for what they get from that state budget, then it's no wonder that the results are what they are. So this should be viewed as one whole process. But when this is ripped out in some dead season, then unfortunately it doesn't look like it, and then we have the results of what we have in the end of a puck in Brussels.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-04-0.u76962	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-04-0.u76963	Thank you very much. Comrade Shucker, you've been very good at detecting the problems that we, as Parliamentarians, see in connection with this report on numerous regulations. Namely, these regulations and their importance concern, above all, the importance of the Assembly as an institution, as the highest representative body in the Republic of Croatia that has actually been bypassed by these regulations, and we are now post-festum, so we confirm the regulations adopted by the Government and which are numerous and very significant. Unfortunately, this relationship with the Croatian Parliament could be reduced to the word "minimising the importance and work of the Croatian Parliament which has been sitting here for three months to say in part and where these regulations could be put into legal proposals and the Croatian Parliament could discuss it. Another importance is the attitude towards the public, towards Croatian citizens and people who are actually some kind of relationship sophisticatedly cowardly. So the regulations implement certain decisions that concern our citizens very lifely, and then here they put after the post-festum on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament so that we simply adopt it and that the blade of the public is completely soluble because these regulations are actually already in force. So, the public's edge, and the media and the citizens, I say, is completely numb. And that's what's sophisticatedly done with premeditated how it's said to do just that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-04-0.u76964	If you had carefully looked at the regulations, you would have seen that most of them had already been translated into laws. Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-04-0.u76965	Yes, they were translated into laws, only those laws were passed a few months after the regulations came into force. They lost that fire and the force that those laws would react to if it were the moment those rights were abolished. However, why did I say all this to my colleague Grubisic? For the simple reason, the budget is the result of the laws that we bring here on both income and expenditure. And you look at these regulations that we've brought here, so we've been discussing the State Budget for two weeks before these regulations were adopted for 2014. And then someone gave you the regulations that he convinced you two weeks ago that it was secure in the budget. So you remember that at 12 months we are convinced that there is enough money for transport and some other things in protest to show that there is no money in the end and then the regulation comes to you and says that some material rights will not be paid even in 2014. However, if this law was discussed when the budget was adopted, then it would probably be because the budget which is a logical thing is very interesting to everyone in the Republic of Croatia, it would probably have been much stronger, more difficult to discuss it, and when you two months don't get any material costs and then someone is discussing this law that those to whom this law applies and by the basis of the regulation of the basics with these material costs are no longer responding because he is unfortunately used to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-04-0.u76966	And Branko Bacic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-04-0.u76967	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A fellow Shucker, one of the laws that the Government amended by regulation, and the Law on the Effective Use of Energy in Direct Consumption, which practically abolished the responsibility of the Centre for the Monitoring of Business and Investments in the Energy Sector and transferred the power of the Law to the Real Estate Agency, although when the Law was passed, we warned the Government at the HDZ Club that this Centre was not qualified and it is not possible for the entire public sector in Croatia to implement such investments, not only in the HDZ Club but also in numerous units of local self-governments, but the Government then insisted on that law that, after a few months, the legislation would change exactly what we in the HDZ Club are and foreseeing, justifying this amendment of the law that this centre does not have the capacity to implement that law. Why am I saying this? I would like the government to normally introduce us to the work of the centre that was pompously announced when the law on its establishment was passed, when a tsunami of investment in the energy sector was announced, when it was announced somewhere over 2,000 public-sector buildings that will be restored and in a way that raises the energy efficiency of these buildings. It would be good for the government to tell us clearly what the successes of this project are, how many of these public buildings have been restored. In fact, the government has changed three projects in the meantime and it seems to me that only a few buildings are in the process of implementing, or in the process of recognising energy efficiency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-04-0.u76968	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica,
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-04-0.u76969	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Bačić, you have actually detected the right thing, no one in this House would be against the fact that a certain law is changed by regulations if after a few months we see the effects and positive results of that regulation. Then the change in the law has its justification, it has its purpose and the end result is a positive effect, but if you and you have the negative results of the law that has been amended by the regulation, then a series of questions are asked why it was done, whether it is not, whether there are any other intentions and in the investments and encouraging investments in Croatia we can write a few examples as far as this government has said only they have to simply understand that one investment takes time and what you want to do in the first half of the following year, and you need to define legally somewhere in the third quarter of the previous year that we will have an economic effect somewhere in the second half of the following year and we will have what we have and the results are what they are and about the energy story of the Republic you simply have a feeling that someone ball is going to be, and that today a little Plomin, tomorrow a little bit of what, and the next day we will have a little bit of this, as the other investment is going back and how much money is going, and the money is going to be able to pay, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money is going, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money and the money and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money of the money, and the money of the money, and the money, and the money, and the money of the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money, and the money of the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money Because look, Croatia, no matter how much we talk, has made this and the infrastructure that it can practically buy energy right now, the main energy in the whole world market. Therefore, we don't need games like this because of someone's interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-04-0.u76970	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party, colleague Zlatko Tušak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-04-0.u76971	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. It is not disputed that the Government or finally, and this Parliament has passed its legal basis that the Government can pass certain regulations with legal force at a time when it does not meet the Parliament, but the question is whether the government abuses its powers under the law, so in its discussion, I will briefly refer to the three laws in my opinion which are controversial in the way the government does because the question of the law and the question of the effect of what the predecessors have spoken about, whether it has a quality effect, because the regulation itself because of the regulation that it would publicly promote the government or possibly gain the impression that something of quality is doing I think it is not good and in some way is diminished by this House which is here to pass certain laws and it seems that the Government has taken over too much of its competence regarding the Parliament and ignores even in one piece this High House. As Milanovic says, this is the most successful government, but I would add maybe by those bad results is the most successful, but not according to those quality results because all trends tell us that we are in a very bad situation. And... the part about the 3 laws, I'm going to briefly look back on that part, especially when it comes to the Financial Business Act and the pre-profit settlement, the law itself was passed on 28.09, meaning a little over a year, had 93 articles, that already in the 12th month, 20.12. The government of the Republic of Croatia changed the law with a change of 40 articles. There was an amendment to the law in the 6th month when 64 articles of that law were amended. And in order for us to finally have this last regulation, it is 17 articles that the Government has amended by a regulation. Now, the meaning of the law was something else, the passing of the law, we all here, unanimously adopted this law in a way that the agony of the acquired proceedings was interrupted, but in this way of change, is this how 57 articles of this existing law were made by the Government by a regulation, that means a whole new law, and it was primarily supposed to be a debate here in the Parliament regardless of it because it's a very important law. But no, here's the government found it appropriate that she, by her regulation, amend the law most of all. How much information we have that certain lawsuits have been brought against the Constitutional Court and the question is how will the final part end when it comes to the regulation under that law. Secondly, it is not disputed because the law itself, a regulation that has been regulated, the addition of the Pension Insurance Act, which the Government adopted on 05.09. because it was then incorporated into the law, but it raises the question, it was a matter of several days before the start of the Parliament's meeting, which was so important that it was regulated by the government regulation, except for a certain media space to occupy in that time, to draw attention to itself because then the adoption of that regulation made one big confusion, which is because of those OIBs and somewhere around 50,000 pensioners who had not had an OIB and where it was said that until they delivered the OIB at a certain time would be deprived of pensions. There was no quality interpretation, there was no public information, so more or less all pensioners began to call the area services of pension insurance and to give their OIBs, there was until the heat of the phone and there was simply no connection to get those few months until the whole situation was finally settled. I want to say that the regulation itself has caused more damage than the benefits, and probably today, if the final summary had made it through normal legal procedure, the same effects would have been because all those who have OIB have subsequently delivered it, they were paid for the lack of pensions they had been denied during that period, and in that part, certain legal procedures against those who eventually had false documents relating to the achievement of the pension, which I think is a process that has to go through, and I now see no reason to regulate it in that part of the government. The third regulation on which I wish to draw attention to the same thing, which is a regulation amending and supplementing the Law on the shortfall and remuneration of certain material rights to employees in public services. The Government Regulation brought 27.12., but for the illustration, I will try only to say one thing, that on 18.12. we had an 11th extraordinary session of the Parliament and that session was to be discussed constitutional changes, and among other things in the agenda and the call for that session of the Assembly we had a law that regulates this issue of short-term rights for public service employees who were practically adjudicating the provisions prescribed by the collective agreement and, most importantly, the debate on constitutional changes was not at that session, and the government withdrew that law from that session. So that law could have gone into debate, could have gone through regular procedures, but no, it withdrew it to bring the regulation a few days later and the old law would have changed in a way that certain provisions in the case of redundancies are extended to 2014 and 2013. That's why I think the government is doing this kind of work incorrectly, ignoring this House, and I think the question of when and the regulation needs to be seriously discussed, and I don't think this kind of thing should happen anymore because ultimately this Parliament puts it in a different position than it should be, and the government is trying to put itself above the Parliament, which is not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-04-0.u76972	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-04-0.u76973	Thank you very much. My colleague disagrees with you on your assessment, your assessment of the Regulation on the need to deliver the OIB to those who have not delivered the OIB to the Peace Insurance Authority. In fact, that measure was first of all...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-04-0.u76974	Please, who in the gallery is so loud? Please... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-04-0.u76975	Namely, that regulation, give Jurovic a word now. ... Come on, calm down. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] So this regulation, or measure, was adopted primarily because of, I say, constant complaints mainly from our club for paying off unprepared pensions that are accumulated from year to year in amounts of over 100 million kuna. This regulation has led to the fact that here and today you have over 30,000 of those who have not delivered the OIB The minister said last time there were over 30,000. [[/Intruder: 17 grand.]] It's the latest 17 grand. He'll probably stay on it because it's obvious it's been paid. So, every year, reports from the Peace Insurance Fund say that more than 100 million kunas of non-retirement pensions have been paid through 23 years of the Croatian state that exists, i.e. 2.3 million or 2.5 billion about kuna. That is why this regulation, and it was, I would like it to be immediately and by law to act on the authority of the Kukuriku coalition that it must not be passed by a regulation, but the regulation was necessary even though they could not, even though they were able to pass it in the first days of their power, such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-04-0.u76976	Gold shower response on replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-04-0.u76977	Thank you. My colleague Grubisic, you didn't understand me. I wasn't against the order being made, the ones illegally receiving a pension. I was only against whether the regulation itself, she gave that until a certain time had to be delivered to the OIB, if it was not delivered to the OIB by a certain time then it would be denied pension. But all those who deliver and later, and after that deadline, even today, if they deliver their OIB, they have to be paid back for these back-up pensions. So it's one of these processes. And all those who have been illegally retired, which was not the order and who have been missing these before, should answer for it. So that part of the regulation, which she said, had no effect on these few days which could normally be discussed in this House and incorporated into law. It was not simply the need to make a regulation because it was not some urgency that the effects could immediately be given, but these effects will only be seen by half this year. This is whether it's going to be 17 or at the end of 10 or 5 grand of those who illegally took a pension.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-04-0.u76978	Ivan Shuker replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-04-0.u76979	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A fellow Tušak is very interesting to see an explanation for this shortfall of material rights in public services. So, he says, he says the planned deficit in 2013 will be 18.4 billion, and ten days before that we adopted a budget rebalance for 2013 and make sure that the budget rebalancing does not cost 18.4 billion minus the state budget for 2013. So, the Parliament adopts a document in which, in the meantime, we find there is no money for transport and there is no money for overtime and then there is an explanation to justify this regulation and that withdrawn law, and here you see that the deficit of the state budget, that the budget deficit plan will be 18.4 billion. And now that you add it all together, all those who control us are closely monitoring all government documents. And then no wonder they sent us a message from Brussels that the government budget deficit should be reduced by another 1,300 million. Why? Well, because according to all their estimates and assessments of all the laws that the governments have passed, and that proposal, we rebalance the budget of expenditure aside at this point, it's about 2 billion more than what's shown. And that's just a message for us not to play, because watch the final punishment will be that it will deny us and cut funds from EU funds, regardless of what we unfortunately did not withdraw, but at least let that amount remain in disposition to Croatian citizens, Croatian entrepreneurs and the Croatian state so that it can withdraw it when it finally gets the strength to build projects and finally find that software.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-04-0.u76980	Gold shower response on replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-04-0.u76981	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Shuker, I fully agree with you when it comes to deficits and what's in that material is that on the basis of the shortfall of these rights, 350 million kunas will be realized in the budget. But one other part of the worrying data is, today I read that somewhere in 2 years around 470 kunas the average salary in the Republic of Croatia has dropped in these 2 years. Take it if this information is correct how much less money is tied through taxes, contributions, related to reducing the costs of citizens due to the social situation, collecting taxes on extra value, and what does that mean when it comes to deficits? There was very little work on that plan. We have enormous unemployment, and we have practically a situation where the government is making some regulations, and when it comes to most citizens, and for example, I'm going to say only that question when, when it comes to performances, then we have 310 000 citizens who are doing the work, and there are data that this last one has with the documents that are being delivered for the purposes that are either falsified and no one is checking them and these citizens are being blocked by accounts, they can't normally live and dispose of their resources. And this is part of the problem, which is why the government does not want to make certain regulations to protect citizens, but in a way to reduce their rights in a way that regulates them with regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-04-0.u76982	On behalf of HNS representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-04-0.u76983	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We are discussing the regulations here in one set of regulations almost half a year after a report was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament, and this second set of regulations also with a steady delay which should not actually be a practice in the Croatian Parliament. It's not a government responsibility. Under the law and its powers, the government submitted a report to the Croatian Parliament within a period of time, so immediately after the regulations were passed, and the parliament failed to discuss it here half a year when these regulations came from September last year. This certainly would not be so, especially because it would not be good, because the regulation and the report makes sense to immediately carry out the debate after the regulation has been adopted because, of course, every regulation and even one that changes laws in technical terms only can have serious consequences and therefore it is logical that the Croatian Parliament is immediately after the regulation has been adopted, and that means immediately after having received the report from the Government to conduct a debate on these regulations. In particular, because of such a long period of time, most of these regulations have actually been translated into laws, and then the topics found in these Regulations in the Croatian Parliament have been thematic of what the regulations contain. So this is a later discussion of something that has already been discussed and what actually happened a long time ago. This is, of course, a way that is certainly not good and should not be repeated, regardless of what is mainly about the regulations that have technical changes, so that some deadlines are generally extended and simplified, i.e. to specify some procedures. So in the Housing Act, the deadline for a special group of citizens is extended from one year to two years. The residence tax, the payment procedure for the tourist tax for boaters is simplified and this Regulation is in one and the other set, so this procedure is done, this change of the law based on the regulation is done twice. It extends the right to play games of chance, so it's just one time limit again. The deadline for the termination of the lease is extended to private healthcare professionals until 31.12.2014. So in none of these cases, it is not about any significant change in the legal provisions which should give particular attention. The deadlines for the issue of textbooks are then extended, and there is another set of problems that regulate these regulations and are not just technical in nature, but they are due to the situation, because of the economic reasons in which Croatia is also justified. One regulation of competence for the regulation and implementation of energy efficiency tenders by a single authority, public authorities, energy sector monitoring centres are transferred to the Agency for Legal Transport of Real estate, which is, of course, technical change again and does not contain any significant changes to the conditions of action in this area. And the amendments to the Financial Business Act and the pre-demand settlement as a special law as new in the Croatian legal system, which was then because of the very delicate law, which was here on several occasions during the debate, there was a lot of debate in the public because there was a question of whether a balance was reached, a line between the legality of the procedure and the effectiveness of the pre-departure settlement procedure. And it is logical that this complicated law where there are, of course, many operational jobs, several thousand companies are in the process, logically that, for such a new law, for the new legal practice that exists in Croatia at some point, the government sees that some things can be better, it decides to change these things by regulation. And that's also very logical, of course, because it does respond to some very practical things in a very complicated economic situation. But about this law, about this problem and here in the Croatian Parliament, and especially in the Croatian public, especially in the professional public, there have been discussions all these years and more days since the law has been in force. Thus, nothing important in this regard has been missed. Of course, these two budget-related regulations are of course very delicate, but they are again the result of the difficult economic situation in which Croatia is located. This is a regulation on the shortfall of material rights. It would certainly be good if that regulation, that law, and the provisions regulated by the regulation, had been laid down here in the Parliament in the legal form, not in the form of a regulation. And, of course, this Retirement Insurance Act, which amends it, also aims to introduce order, verification, monitoring and supervision of those pensions that have been achieved against the laws of the Republic of Croatia. This is, of course, one delicate area again, despite the good intentions of the proposer of the regulation, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Croatia. But of course it is an area which is of particular interest also to the state budget, but also to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because it is a very sensitive issue that has not actually been touched for years. These problems have accumulated and, of course, it would be more logical if we had dealt with these issues by law, not regulations. But it should be understood that under these circumstances the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which affects the budget, and of course the budget is a big issue because of the difficult situation in which Croatia is located, is also a matter of particular interest. So I don't think anything here is in any serious form compromised. Most of the discussions concerning these regulations were held in the Croatian Parliament. In time, the government submitted a report to the Croatian Parliament, and it should certainly be asked whether in the Croatian Parliament, when it comes to regulations, we are extremely rational and responsible. Because it would be logical to consider every regulation or every government report here immediately after the report has arrived at the Croatian Parliament and we often spend as much time as it would take to consider the report by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on some of our internal procedures. Stanka, a break takes time to consider one of these government reports. And as you know it is a regular practice in the work of the Croatian Parliament not to talk about the issues of repeated repetition of the same replicas for hours in the Croatian Parliament. But it's a question of our internal work and the rationality of our work. Therefore, for all of these reasons, but of course by proposing that regulations in the Croatian Parliament are still being considered immediately after the Croatian Assembly has addressed them, so that these objections are then delayed by considering some issues, that questions are being considered after they have already been considered in the Croatian Parliament and thus are lost in some way and the metricity of the debate and unnecessary waste of time. That is why I suggest that when the regulations come to the Croatian Parliament, they are considered immediately at the first session of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-04-0.u76984	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on these reports later. My colleagues and colleagues at 1200 hours, we will continue the session by voting on the debated points.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-04-04-0.u76985	a) Report on regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to the legal authority b) Report on regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. So both are the same. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the next conclusion. A report on Government Regulations is hereby adopted Reports are accepted, thank you very much. [[Secretary intrusion: Reports accepted.]] Reports shall be adopted on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. I'm asking you to state who's in favour of the proposed conclusion. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? What's the score? I find that by a majority of the 77 votes, 29 votes against and one abstention, the proposed conclusion has been reached.
