ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u77749	My colleagues and colleagues have a good day and we will continue with the session and the debate. We will discuss - A regular annual report by the Advocate General for 2013 The Advocate General delivered the report on the basis of Article 16. The law of the Attorney General. You've received the materials. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the reports at the session. Here you go, Nada Turina-Djuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u77750	Dear Vice President, on behalf of the HNS Club, I'm looking for a break regarding the Supreme Court's verdict to former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. We think it would also be necessary in the House to speak after the end of this process a political stance both for this Parliament and for the parties working in this assembly. I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u77751	Vice President Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u77752	The SDP for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u77753	Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u77754	Croatian Labourists for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u77755	Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. Jadranka Kosor. Damir Cain. Is that all? I'm setting a break by 9.45. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] On behalf of the HNS club, counterpart Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u77757	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party considers it necessary to speak politically in this House about something that happened at the end of last week that finally handed down a verdict by the Supreme Court regarding the INA-MOL case and the verdict that went towards the conviction of the former prime minister of the Republic of Croatia. We consider this an extremely difficult one case that directly reflected the lives of all of us, which reflected in politics entirely and what President Ivo Josipovic said immediately after that verdict was delivered, and that is only one word that I think characterises the whole case. Unfortunately, it is about high treason from the highest political position in this country. This is unfortunately also the judicial epilogue of the rule of the Croatian Democratic Community, which, unfortunately, is drilling into its statehood by putting its hand on the heart with the other hand, deeply reaching into the pockets of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. What happened specifically with the release of MOL's management rights in INA is the worst, what happened in INA management in the last few years, which is that here today instead of investing in INA, instead of the proper management of a strategic company for the Republic of Croatia, we have indications that Rafineri will be closed in Sisak, that the Rafineri in Rijeka will be closed, that we will potentially lose jobs, and that we will potentially lose potential development in that segment at all, that we do not even talk about it. We felt it was important to talk about it today and to support the Government of the Republic of Croatia on this Government of the Republic of Croatia which, with the very beginning of its mandate, made it clear that it would oppose the management of the INA in such a way that it was agreed in time with the former prime minister who firmly held the position of interest of the Republic of Croatia, strategic interests and I hope that, after all, everything that was covered and covered up for years, that these negotiations with MOL would all be transparent, that we would know in which way the Republic of Croatia would continue to cooperate with MOL or perhaps with another company and where these interests of the Republic of Croatia would be clearly read. And that is why we have asked for a break to say and to express our full support for our negotiators, to express our support for the Government of the Republic of Croatia in a completely different policy. And to remind our citizens, unfortunately, it seems that forgetting us and politics often cost us a lot. So in order not to cost us and in the future, we think that our citizens should be warned and told what we will do and what we do as Government, like this Parliament, as the majority in this House, like this coalition, and what some before us did and in what way. In the end, I would like to thank you for listening to us and I believe that most of the assembly clubs will support this thinking by the Croatian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u77758	Thank you. We have a notice of a change in the term of the 9th Children's Forums meeting with parliamentary representatives. Instead of 10.00 hours, the meeting will begin at 12:00 in the hall of Josip Šokčević, a small town hall in the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the SDP club Vice President Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u77759	The Supreme Court has delivered a judgment of power to one man, but that judgment, unfortunately, is much more than a judicial verdict to one man for one crime. It is a seal on the testimony of a time as it was managed by Croatia, how for 8 years it was managed by Croatia, who and how it supported one man in his criminal activity. Only one man was convicted, but he didn't do it alone. The decisions were made by the HDZ government unanimously. No one was in that government to warn the HDZ prime minister and tell him to stop, that's not how it works. A respected viewer and this transmission throws me from the bench to lie, and you are witnesses to me because you lived in that Croatia as I have for 8 years and you know well how this government worked and if anyone in that government opposed the Prime Minister then. Testimony is that one time when you... Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The testimony is a devastating political activity that must no longer happen to Croatia. We warned here at the Croatian Parliament at the time, we asked to establish an investigative commission, and it was established. And this investigation committee was to establish the truth about the second contract between the Croatian State and the MOL. And the opposition party in that commission has established it. The contract could only be changed in two cases, that the Hungarians crossed 50% of ownership or that Croatia lost 25% of ownership. Other reasons for amending the contract were not except corrupt. But the majority, the HDZ majority in the investigation committee, concluded, made it clear that everything was fine and thus covered their boss's criminal activity. That's what citizens need to know. Can the damage be corrected? This government is trying to correct that damage, to change the contract, to change relations. Because it's not only the damage of 10 million euros, the damage is much greater. Where could INA be today if it wasn't for this criminal activity? She could have been a strong, rich, profitable company, and this is how it was sold. National interests have been sold and the President of the Republic rightly declares high treason [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u77760	Don't throw it out of the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u77761	It's the truth that bothers you, so you're throwing it away. You're distracted by the truth, Comrade Shuker, so you're throwing it away. You're a little nervous. Don't be nervous. Listen to the truth. The citizens of the Republic of Croatia learned the truth yesterday, whether you like it or not, by the Supreme Court verdict. I know you don't like it, you can hardly like it when it talks about how you did it. And you sat in that government, and then you raised your hand for all those decisions. Therefore, this is high treason. Unfortunately, not just one man. That's what the citizens of the Republic of Croatia must be warned about, let them take care of it the second time they decide who they want in power, what kind of people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u77762	On behalf of the Club of Croatian Labourists – Work parties of a colleague Branko Vukšić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u77763	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I have no intention of protecting or defending anyone because everyone here knows how to defend and protect themselves, and so does Vice President Stazic, but to compare summering for 7 kn with the malignant way of ruling with the billions that have been stolen, I think it's even inappropriate. The logic that reigned at that time is logic we can do anything, we can do anything. We are the power and power that can and can do anything. I remember very well one detail when Mr. Sanader taught those late retirements in Karlovac, a lady kneeled on the floor and kissed him in the hand. Mr. Sanader carried an hour of 40,000 euros on his hand, and the lady got 2,000 kunas, I'm not lying, but the truth is she has a newspaper, don't yell at me to lie, don't be rude. The lady received 2,000 kunas of pensions in a few years that were stolen in the '90s. After that in the media, do you remember well, the media were having fun with the "watches" affair. While the media was having fun with the "watches" affair, billions were being stolen. It was just a cast that had a people to entertain. It's actually one message to all of us, the authorities, especially the Parliament, that we shouldn't listen to from this pay phone those who represent themselves as unmistakable, those who are autocraticly ruling and remember only the haughtiness with which Mr. Sanader associated with the parliamentary representatives. That boast is unfortunately repeated in the Kukurik government as well. Unfortunately, we are a society that tolerates crime and tolerates theft. And that just happened in those eight years. After journalists rebelled before 2007 at Mr. Sanader, he won the 2007 elections. It's a lesson to all of us. Now there's one important question, if it's an act of high treason, if it's war profit, and what's a powerful verdict proves, what about the INA, what about the contract, what about the INA contracts and the ones from 2003 and the later contracts? I think the government should come before the Parliament and here to the MPs to say what will be the subject of arbitration? What contract, what does it say in them? The management rights of partial INA owners should then be frozen for so long as arbitration is not completed. You don't need to fall for the pressures from Europe. MOL has lost credibility if we respect the rulings of the court in the Republic of Croatia, which is the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. So we can consider until the end of arbitration that MOL can't manage INA because there's been a crime. The crime was confirmed at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. We hope that this act, as Mr. Josipovic said, an act of high treason, will sell Croatia's national interests with the support of his party for a handful of kuna or a handful of euros. As said in the investigation, the national interests of Croatia were sold. I think there's one good message in all of this: crime isn't worth it. Justice is slow in Croatia, especially in Croatia, but affordable. Mr. Sanader is responsible for what he did, but I agree with those, many who held his bag, many who supported him in it passed without any punishment and even dared to hold on to moral disciplines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u77764	On behalf of the Club of Representatives DC and Independent Representatives of fellow Members Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u77765	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, our club will not spend much time assessing the work of Eve Sanader since at least one part of this club had a lot of burned skin precisely because several years ago they warned of the action of Ivo Sanader. At that time, however, there was not enough critical mass in this House to sanction a single action even politically. Now we've won for the first time in the history of the country a verdict that has been qualified as high treason. Indeed, when someone is playing in this way with the interests of the oil company, the only oil company, and the largest Croatian company, then it is indeed an act of national interest. However, we have a final verdict today, and I am now asking from this place if the contract is a disputed, stockpiling contract based on a criminal act and now, apparently in the verdict, the Supreme Court's verdict said that this is the case, then the question is, can the contract be even more existed? In no country in the world, a contract based on a criminal offence is valid. So it can't be this contract either. Therefore, in the arbitration procedure, this sharer agreement should be put aside. It's this government's job, it's the board of directors, it's the business of the economy minister. She would not want to be a bad prophet, but she would also not want this debate to happen again in a few years when we discuss others’ decisions or perhaps have another verdict because of insufficient representation of national interests. So it's time to take this Parliament seriously, and analyze it, and deliver the government's strategy of what it means to do about INA in the relations of MOL and INA, what a strategy of further action related to INA, and I think that should be devoted not to 10 minutes of this House, the attention of this Parliament, but indeed to the rights and quality of debate and before that should be seen and what is the government's strategy. We haven't seen her yet, we've only seen conflicts within the government between the chairman of the supervisory board and the economy ministry. I'm deliberately saying this, not for the reason that some political points would be raised here right now, but really to point to a serious problem, and the problem is huge. I hope that within a few years, the Supreme Court will not re-arbitrate, decide, and that is why it is really necessary for the government to come here and present an energy strategy, or strategy related to our largest and most valuable oil company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u77766	On behalf of the club Jadranka Kosor and HGS colleague Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u77767	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I think we can say after this verdict, but also after some other decisions by Croatian courts and in the provost degree that the rule of law in the Republic of Croatia still works despite our numerous remarks, the rule of law works. And it was confirmed on this particular example that this case was not about political persecution, but that, when it comes to politics and political space, strong political will, to allow independent institutions such as the state's attorneys, such as USKOK, to do their job in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with Croatian laws. And of course, this is primarily a confirmation of the good and successful work of the state's attorney, former and current state's attorney, USKOK and all of those employees of the state's attorneys who participated in the case, i.e. in the process. The new perspective opens, I will speak exclusively of the legal aspect of this verdict, it opens to the Republic of Croatia because it is a contract that is also confirmed by the Supreme Court based on the corrupt part. So, it's a legal... contract and above all we expect a suspension of management rights to occur, but quite certainly that the State's Attorney's Office can also ask for this contract out of force, it is, I repeat, based on a corrupt criminal act, so I think that the State's Attorney's Office that protects the law of interest of the Republic of Croatia has many possibilities here. The ruling certainly strengthened and strengthened the position of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the negotiations, but also in arbitration, the struggles are of course continuing and I think it is therefore important and might be good, Madam Vice-President, to actually expand this debate, to prepare it, to hold cold heads and a hot heart to hold a comprehensive debate on a strategically important company such as INA and to draw some binding conclusions in the Croatian Council regarding the conduct of the Government. However, there are still some open questions that few people are talking about. In the case of the head of MOL who has been indicted before the Croatian courts, or the court, the indictment has been confirmed, the question is how... European arrest warrant. We spent a lot of words on the European arrest warrant in the Croatian Parliament. How is this institution in an EU Member State not working? Or how is it that in one country it works and in another it doesn't work? And it has nothing to do with good neighbourly relations, I would like to point out once again that Hungary was the EU chairman when we finished negotiations, that they were giving us strong support, but what we are talking about today has nothing to do with relations between the Republic of Hungary and the Republic of Hungary. Perhaps right now we can pass in the Croatian Parliament the law we were thinking about in the past government, so because of the negotiations and because of the conclusion of the negotiations, we did not take that step, and that is, regardless of..., regardless of EU rules, perhaps to pass precisely because of this ruling a law which will be worth some time so that no one can own more than 49% of the shares of the INA. Equally in the protection of Croatian national interests, precisely because the leader of MOL does not want to see the Croatian court. And finally, I think that, just for a little while more in the political sphere, this verdict can also move us to think about amending the electoral law, how people convicted of corrupt and other serious crimes must lose passive voting rights forever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u77768	And on behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleague Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u77769	Dear Vice-President, gentlemen of the Sanader case, the Croatian judiciary reacted and in my court it reacted correctly. Now why Sanader resigned in 2009, because if he hadn't done so would probably not have started him with the 2010 trial, these are some other issues, but surely the reason for his resignation as prime minister is not Slovenia. Sanader's case is probably the biggest case of corruption in Europe since 2000, although some cases have been a little bit, for my understanding in that case tense, for example. HYPO, but if the Supreme Court has confirmed... President Josipovic's verdict rightly said it was a high treason. But those who let him go at the time, for example. To escape to Austria, and now they wash their hands of everything, they're also not friends of the state. And they are, in some ways, enemies of the state and I want to say that Croatia does not kiss with either robbery or kidnapping or turning public into private. It can't even be Croatianism, like if we have such cases in Istria, it can't even be historianry. Those abductions must have cost dearly. Okay, and that should be said, we're all bloody under the skin, but and I'm going to say, you can't... execute only on Sanader and no one else. When we talk to Fimi-Medija from the case, there are more similar Fimi-Media in Croatia. Extending the money for survival in power, and some Fimi-Medie are five times more subtle than the real Fimi-Medie, something they'll probably be talking about at... time the same thing. I do not say that I get a response from the local authorities of tourist communities down in Istria, how much they spend on the PR and the media, but it is 10 million kuna a year, times 4 times the number of mandates and it suspends democracy and it suspends ultimately and more foreigners. In that way, let's say Sanader won the election. HYPO, I'm not going to talk about it, INA, it's on my conscience when we talk about INA, and that's what you should say, there's this INA and... administration. In 2003, why was it necessary to sell the company that brought the war to its own self and to Croatian independence in the first place? Is Sanader a war profiter? Probably, but he can't be the only one in this country, he can't be. A bank sale for 5.4 billion kuna, a coupon privatisation, a conversion, etc. Let justice be done, but not selective because selective justice is ultimately injustice. And for the end, as Mr. Stazic said, Sanader could not alone, there were governments, there was the Parliament, there were ministers, there were we representatives, there were the media, the electoral, blinded by sweetness, but also by the media image of the same government. What all my predecessors have said, I also believe that the contract with MOL will break, but also once again I'm going to say, we should talk about a 25% plus one concession in 2003. I think it was a mistake to sell the company at that time for 505 million dollars or about 3 billion kuna, which per year was 30 billion kuna. Government support for the cancellation of the contract with MOL, though we need to know that the Hungarian court ruled a little differently on Hernadia, supporting the judiciary but I want to say that Sanader could not have done so alone and still has it in Croatia. And finally, I certainly don't like it because of this verdict because it is also in some way a verdict to the entire Croatian politics, but if we want to do so to the Croatian institutions. Yes, this verdict, as Jadranka Kosor said, is not political persecution, and I know that let the DORH do what he did in 2010. ...was not a simple political decision when Mr. Bajic's shift was ultimately sought. But regardless of all the support of both the government and the president and the Croatian judiciary.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81354	My colleagues and colleagues have a good day and we will continue with the session and the debate. We will discuss - A regular annual report by the Advocate General for 2013 The Advocate General delivered the report on the basis of Article 16. The law of the Attorney General. You've received the materials. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the reports at the session. On a regular basis, the 2013 Annual Report of the Advocate General will be further explained by Mrs. Lora Vidovic, the Ombudsman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81355	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The 2013 Ombudsman’s 2013 report is the first single full report uniting all office mandates, i.e. the classic Ombudsman's mandate, the one of the central authority responsible for combating discrimination, the national preventive mechanism, as well as the protection and promotion of human rights in a broader sense, and the basis of the Law on the Ombudsman, the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination, the Law on the National Prevention Mechanism and the Rules of Procedure of the Public Advocate. And our goal is to try to give a comprehensive and comprehensive picture of the protection of human rights and the occurrences of discrimination in the country. It is important to stress that, in accordance with the provisions of the Additional Protocol with the Convention against Tortrum and the Law on MPM, part of the report concerning the work of the national preventive mechanism or the protection of the rights of persons deprived of liberty will be translated into English and, in accordance with the additional protocol, provided to the UN Sub-Committee against torture and other international institutions and mechanisms for the protection of the rights of persons deprived of liberty. In line with the legal obligations of the report, we show above all statistics on the conduct in 2013, data on the occurrences of discrimination both from our work and the pooled data from all lawyers and data related to judicial cases related to discrimination, as well as other information and data on the work of offices in 2013 on top of the statistics themselves. The analysis and assessment of the human rights situation and the occurrence of discrimination are listed in certain areas, mostly in relation to complaints received from citizens, but except for the part relating to the prevention of discrimination and other sources of information, for the first time this year such as annual reports and those publicly available by different stakeholders and bodies, professional articles and research, but to a large extent and answers to the questions that we have sent to the entire number of NGOs, social partners, religious communities and others to produce this report. What's very visible from the great number of citizens' conversions is that they don't really know who to address when they have a particular problem, how they can protect their rights, and many of us expected legal advice or representation and were talking to us because they couldn't get relevant information elsewhere. Although a relatively good legislative framework remains lagging behind in Croatia, it is certainly not a surprise. Citizens have difficulties in achieving their legal rights, and the competent authorities often do not respond to their enquiries or exceed their deadlines in resolving the requirements. And the particular problem is the lack of a timely response from the authorities and the enquiries they receive from our office. In this regard, the bodies that need to be sent more haste are the Tax Administration of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Ministry of Regional Development and EU Funds, the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing, the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, the Ministry of Justice, the administration, the HZZO. At the same time last year, we held a series of meetings with representatives of some of these bodies that I have now cited, just to agree that we will act more effectively and more quickly on the complaints of citizens and in certain cases and in me situations that have led to improvement. As for discrimination, although the number of complaints continues to rise this year, the number remains very low and it is obvious that non-discrimination remains present in Croatia as well as in other European countries. It is obvious that citizens still do not have enough knowledge of what discrimination is and how they can protect themselves and who they should address, but we can say from those complaints that we have received that the most represented foundation is ethnicity or national origin, and the area of work and employment. Three areas have been established which I would like to highlight in this exhibition as areas of particular concern. Of course, the other areas listed in the report, which I will not mention due to the limited time at this time, should not be neglected. In fact, you are also given the opportunity to discuss the report as a whole on the basis of its integrated full form, not the summary that has been provided to you all and which is exclusively binding on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, and the basic criterion is its number of pages, not its content. So the first area I think is very important to talk about is public administration. Since the public administration is essentially acting as an institution that protects the legal and constitutional rights of citizens in relation to public authorities. A large number of complaints relate to the length of the case resolution in the administrative procedure, i.e. in the appeal procedure or to the procedural provision of the ZUP. This is a systemic problem that we see in several resolutions and which actually shows that the state administration does not have enough capacity to solve an increasing number of complaints from citizens coming. As an example, the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, which has therefore recognised this problem in its portfolio and strategic plan, can point out that citizens' complaints will be resolved within 200 days. So far, that deadline has been a year and a half and the legal deadline is 60 days. The same problem we find in other ministries and state offices. At the same time, the state administration is perceived and is very large, there are a large number of people who are constantly hearing the budget. Also from a number of questions that we take, as I said, which necessarily do not have the character of the complaint under the law and how our law defines it. What's quite obvious is that citizens don't even know who to turn to when they have a problem, they feel completely lost in contact with the administration. And the fact is that without reforming the public administration in Croatia is insufficiently capacitated to be an adequate service to citizens and it can be said that instead of solving their problems, it actually generates new ones. We also repeat recommendations related to official relations this year and point to infringements of the rights in the process of schedules of found civil servants due to changes in the formation of individual ministries after the last parliamentary elections. The judgments of the administrative court of March and April this year confirm our recommendations. This applies to the Ministry of the Interior and the Tax Administration of the Ministry of Finance. And what we hope is that one of the consequences of these judgments will be further strengthening, i.e. strengthening the Committee on State Service, in order to prevent such judicial proceedings in the future. The second area, which I believe is highlighted, is the rights of members of national minorities, i.e. discrimination based on ethnicity or national origin. As far as the rights of national minorities are concerned, this is the area mentioned for the first time in the report by the Ombudsman. And we've processed two areas of the Constitutional Law. This is the representation of members of national minorities in state administration authorities, as the 5.5% target that is set by the membership plan of members of national minorities in the state service remains unattainable. In addition, we also stress the right to use the language and letter of members of national minorities equally, which, thanks to the referendum initiative last year, triggered a number of debates. However, as the main activity of the referendum initiative took place this year, much more will be in the 2014 report. As regards discrimination on the basis of ethnicity and national origin, this is the most common basis for complaint in the office and, above all, in the field of labour and employment. Otherwise, we can say that in Croatia, Roma and Serbian national minorities are in a particularly vulnerable position as immigrants, asylum seekers and asylum seekers. As for members of the Roma national minority during 2013 as well as earlier years, we have not received their complaints that could give us enough image of what the situation of the Roma minority really is, so that we used other sources of information for the report. And that fact that we do not actually accept complaints from members of the Roma national minorities on the one hand means that we are still inaccessible and that we are not able to get to them in the way we should and on the other hand that they themselves are extremely socially excluded. We will certainly try in this year and in the future as much as possible to be present on the ground and as much as possible in direct contact with members of the Roma national minority. But we will try contact and achieve through NGOs, representatives and councils of the Roma national minority. Because there are, in fact, clear indications that Roma are making it difficult for them to exercise the rights that are easily available to the majority of the population. For example, Roma in Croatia have twice less chance of employment than Neros. And the average age of Roma according to data from the last census is 21.9 years. The poverty rate is twice as pronounced among the Roma. Support from the welfare and care system is an important source of income for many Roma families and is exposed to stereotypes and prejudices when trying to achieve them. The particular problem is also the fact that many Roma settlements have been built illegally, we have warned about it before and this year we are actually recommending the units of local self-government to strengthen the development of spatial plans and actually create assumptions for the legalization of illegally built objects and the editing and equipment of Roma settlements. As for members of the Serb national minority, they often complain that they are discriminated against precisely by ethnicity and most often in the field of labour and employment but also in other areas. And this applies to those members of the Serb National Minority who have never left the Republic of Croatia, as well as to the returnees. As for refugee returns and these are certainly too difficult for Serbs in Croatia, their return over the past few years has slowed, and this trend is certainly expected in view of the time since the end of the war but also of many other life, family, biological reasons. One of them is quite certain and the difficulties they have in exercising the right to housing because the system is arranged so that it does not contribute to a larger return at all. The legal changes themselves when we talk about return, restoration and housing are really common. The Law on Areas of Special State Care has so far changed more than 10 times and only in 2013 has the law changed twice. The amendments that the law has passed are so complicated and complicated that they are hard to deal with and most excellent legal experts, let alone citizens to whom it really applies. Residential care on the other hand outside of the PPDS is not regulated by law at all but only by sublaws. What was, in any case, a major, important, new environment in 2013 was the establishment of the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing, but in preparation for the draft state office, it was completely halted to comply with the requirements of the citizens until the office was established. After the office was established several months ago for the establishment and for the start of work, so last year there was a major delay in working on the demands of citizens, and in our office the increase in complaints in this area was from 115%. The fact that the existing housing system is completely inefficient and unsustainable tells us that in 2013, there were 11307 positively resolved housing requirements, i.e. 11307 positively resolved requirements. Only 406 available housing units were provided for this. The average duration of the housing process is 8 years and these are data that really speak about the system as inefficient and unsustainable. The decision to sell apartments owned by the Republic of Croatia to Serb returnees, former tenants of tenancy rights, continues with the fact that former tenants are not valorising to the same extent as those of the citizens who bought the apartments in the 1990s. And despite the expectation that this will change, the new decision to sell apartments owned by the Republic of Croatia is essentially the same earlier decision on terms of purchase. In addition, these two groups of members of national minorities, i.e. the Roma and Serbian national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, when we talk about discrimination on the basis of ethnicity, it is important to mention migrants, i.e. asylum seekers and asylum seekers. Since our entry into the European Union and despite the economic crisis, we can actually expect an increasing number of these people. For example, in 2004, 107 foreigners sought asylum in Croatia, 2013. 1226. They are all located in shelters in Kutina and Zagreb where they are really faced with prejudices and stereotypes and often open discrimination in the local community. At the same time, only 7 asylum applications and 16 subsidiary protection applications were granted in 2013, so despite a really large increase in the number of applications submitted, they are still granted a very small number. At the beginning of last year's migration policy was adopted, however, it viewed migration as the most security problem, and the economic, social and cultural effects of migration on society remained largely unrecognizable. In addition, it is also necessary to add that the specific needs of highly sensitive groups such as business incompetent persons, children, pregnant women, older and powerless persons, victims of human trafficking or victims of violence are not recognized at all by the system of caring for asylum seekers. The Croatian language course for persons who were granted protection was not available in 2013 and remains a direct adverse impact on further education and employment, since without completion of the 1st degree of Croatian language, their labour market is completely unavailable. In addition, religious and ordinary differences are not respected during their stay at shelters. So meals in the soup kitchen are not adapted to people of Islamic religion which produces a direct discriminatory effect. Finally, as the third area that I think is very important is the area of social rights of citizens at a time when we are in economic crisis I don't think it is necessary to particularly explain it is very critical and we are really talking to an increasing number of citizens who are faced with the consequences of the economic crisis, regardless of which particular area they have a problem or are complaining to us. The risk of poverty or social exclusion in Croatia in 2012 was 32.3%. What the citizens often spoke to us was that they were confronted with the performances, most often unable to meet regular directorial costs, describing the difficult situations in which they were found and indeed not with their own guilt, and we must not assume that everyone who is in debt is obliged because he did not read carefully what he was signing. Many of our fellow citizens really cannot repay their debts due to the circumstances in which they were found without being responsible. Many families still have no settled housing issue, and social housing in Croatia is also not systematically resolved. Homeless people remain in an extremely difficult situation and in a gravely vulnerable situation, as many cities, including many cities that are based in the county, do not have shelters for the homeless. Funding of care for homeless people is left to fiscal financial opportunities, but also awareness of the well-being of the leaders of large cities, while the plan to take care of homeless people refers only to extreme winter conditions, which is something that we think should certainly change and that care, that is, this kind of care of the homeless should be provided throughout the year. We therefore recommend that minimum standards should be defined in funding, but also one systematic survey of the problems of homeless in Croatia should be carried out so that they can be approached in a systematic and uniform manner. In addition, elderly people are in an extremely unfavourable social situation. Social statements are indeed inadmissible and do not allow for even basic existence. By 31 December 2013, the amount of maintenance aid for a single man who had no income amounted to a fully incompetent person 850 kuna. If, in addition, the person achieved the full amount of aid and care allowances of 500 kuna, the monthly social income amount for that person was 1350 kuna, which is indeed below any limit of sufficientness and cannot guarantee a minimum of basic living needs. That is why this year we recommend introducing state support to elderly people without a pension that is also provided for by the GIM, and that an advanced social services system be developed for older and powerless persons, especially care services in the house and living room. As regards the action of the national preventive mechanism as an important segment in the public defender's business, i.e. the protection of the rights of persons deprived of liberty and those who are limited to freedom of movement. In short, it is necessary to highlight three things that have also actually been repeated since last year. One problem is overcrowding. Although there is still a trend of reduction we cannot possibly be satisfied with. Currently, conditions in the prison system are 115 per cent, but the average accumulation of closed conditions in prisons is 149 per cent. In prison in Zagreb, there are up to 7 prisoners in individual bedrooms of 16m2. It is obvious that new investments in terms of building institutions will not be. The treatment of prisoners is unequal, although there are many reasons for this. To the most extent, however, they come from a lack of legislative framework, a restrictive interpretation of the rules or their inconsistencies, and conditions of accommodation. The quality of health care in the prison system remains insufficient and we reiterate this year's recommendation that it should be separated from the Ministry of Justice and included in the Ministry of Health. People who are limited to freedom of movement due to mental disorders are in a particularly vulnerable situation which has proved in several cases in 2013 and we will pay special attention to this problem during 2014. During 2013, the national preventive mechanism was in 12 regular tours, 6 under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice, five MUPs and 1 MORH. What is very important here is that during 2013 we did not record situations that represent torture, but we are the acts that can represent inhuman or humiliating treatment. And finally, with this report to the competent authorities, we have addressed a total of 80 recommendations found both in the integral part of the report and in its summary. When we talk about the work of the office in 2013 which is also an obligation under the Law on the Ombudsman in relation to reporting, two important circumstances marked our work. One thing is the appointment of a new leadership that was accompanied by the need for a new structure, i.e. by the obligation to adopt sublegal acts that really took away a significant part of our capacities, as well as a major increase in complaints against citizens. A total of 3021 complaints were received which increased by 63% compared to 2012 with a really large number of phone calls and as many as 459 personal conversations with citizens in the office. The most complaints were received from the city of Zagreb and central Croatia, which means that the spatial distance of the office also affects a small number of complaints from citizens from other parts of the country. This is certainly an important argument that speaks in favour of opening up district offices so that we will indeed be an office that will not live and work alone in Zagreb, but really be available to citizens on the ground and where they need us. An important event in terms of the international positioning of the office, but also for us in the country last year marked the re-accreditation of the institution with status and thus confirmed by the UN International Co-ordination Committee that the Ombudsman is an independent national institution in line with the highest international standards. In doing so, the subcommittee gave us two recommendations. One is an increase in the availability of citizens I have talked about earlier, including through the establishment of regional offices, and the other are amendments to the Law on the Ombudsman in order to make it clear that the Ombudsman encourages ratification of documents and access to international human rights instruments unlike the current corruption that says it can warn about the need for harmonisation. As far as this first recommendation is concerned, it depends directly on the increase in the budget of the office that we estimate per million kuna per year, and in relation to the second one we plan to propose to the Croatian Assembly to amend the Law on the Ombudsman in order to respect this recommendation. As for other indicators on our work with 3021 new open subject, it should be pointed out that we have sent proposals during the procedure of amending or supplementing 17 regulations and have indeed participated in a large number of boards of the Croatian Parliament, we organised two meetings. One is on the subject of implementation in cooperation with the Croatian Legal Centre and other international ones to which all defence attorneys from the region have responded in co-operation with the UNDP. We actively participated in 70 and over 70 domestic and international meetings. In line with the responsibilities and the Law on the Ombudsman, an agreement was signed with the special defenders, the Council for Human Rights of the Civil Rights of the Ombudsman was established, we tried to be present in the public on the matter of the journalist's inquiry, and when we felt that it was necessary. The number of visitors to the website has increased since 2012 by 11%, we've launched a Twitter profile and we're trying as hard as possible to really make it available. Finally, at the same time as the number, with an increase in the number of cases of 63% in 2013, the number of office employees dropped by 25%, which actually increased the average burden per employee by over 100%. So actually the office's capacities were brought to its maximum, and even though we have shown in this way that for less can be done more and that with less can work more fact is that at this point we really have reached the maximum capacity and maximum loads that we can bear. The fact is that new powers have been added to the office over the years by the Law on Discussion of Discrimination under the pre-accession negotiations. After that, the NPM in 2012, and finally in the field of justice, which generates the largest number of complaints that we in the office receive, and then those promotional roles. And adding all these powers has not been closely followed by sufficient financial allocations so that we can do them in a good way. And in fact, in this way in the last two years, the institution of the attorney general has de facto been significantly weakened and not strengthened. I must stress this opportunity that in the field of discrimination which I said was one of the pre-accession conditions currently only three people are working. However, of these three, one follows the entire area of ethnicity, so discrimination based on ethnicity and national origin, and the full rights of national minorities and the whole area of recovery and housing care, which is indeed the maximum of burdens that can be achieved and more than that. The national preventive mechanism records an extremely small number of tours in relation to offices in the region. One of the reasons for this is also a very limited normative framework, so we have already proposed to the Ministry of Justice amending the Law on the National Prevention Mechanism to allow us to have as many as possible and to be able to do more, but to a large extent this depends on financial capacities. The most important step in terms of strengthening the office that we are assessing should be achieved in the hope of a near future is to increase the availability of citizens in particular through the opening of regional offices. As I said, this is an annual detachment of a million kunas that would allow us to have two advisers in Osijek, Rijeka and Split and not only to enable us to process better, faster and more efficiently and respond to complaints from citizens but it would also allow us to deal with those areas of human rights that so far in the Office of the Public Advocates have not been followed. For 20 years, capacities have been developed in the direction of the Ombudsman's defence authority. So, when constitutional or legal rights of citizens violate a body of public authority, we would really like to expand our field of action, work on those human rights and those ways that the office has never worked before. But it really depends to the most extent on the capacities that are available to us. I also get in the debate that follows your support in that regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81356	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81357	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed lawyer spoke, now and in the last part, and I answered the line earlier in the speech, when it came to the presence of the office on the ground and then in the final part of the speech the same thing about the capacity of the office to actually solve all those complaints and to pay attention at all to all those complaints that were coming. This seems to me from the perspective of parliamentary representatives and the Croatian Parliament perhaps a key topic, in any case one of the key topics, because it is something where we as representatives can directly influence. He's been sharing us for a few months since the adoption of the State Budget for next year and the reason I've reported to him, and that's what the D.A. is in his final sentence and asked us and I immediately answer, so we all have to work together to influence the Ministry of Finance in the process of agreeing on the budget to help with the Attorney's Office. And to support indeed, on the one hand, the establishment and opening of the district offices, on the other hand, the strengthening of the capacities of the central office itself, bearing in mind, in particular, that it is a million kuna which is therefore crumbs in relation to the overall budget of the Republic of Croatia. And it really shouldn't be the problem of these millions of kunas for such an extremely important institution to find. And the Ombudsman's institution is actually not entirely meaningful if it is not easily accessible to those whose rights are compromised and if there is not enough capacity to adequately protect the rights of those who are at risk. In this regard, let us remember when the budget is adopted in the budget process to give support to the Advocate's Office for these million kunas a year more.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81358	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81359	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, Madam Attorney, you actually said in your statement and confirmed that we are an unorganized bureaucratic state at the expense of the citizens. I'd take it down to one sentence. What I came forward for was somehow something like a positive in the public administration is the Ministry of Social Welfare because it said it would solve complaints within 200 days until the average was, if I heard correctly, about a year and a half. I now understand that let's even understand that there are waiting lists for operations, but I really don't understand that it takes 200 days or a year or a half to get some clerk, an official in some ministry or some state service to write 2, 3, 5 sentences and give an answer to one of the citizens. Really, I think all of this work, you as the attorney general and your office, if there's no sanctions on those who need to do something, then basically the report will be the same every year, every year. There will be recommendations, and from these recommendations something will happen or will not happen. You were also talking about regional offices. All right, that availability should probably be but certainly not at the expense of taxpayers with new employment but at the reconstruction of the current services in some other state institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81360	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81361	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Well, here's the esteemed attorney general you've been doing in your presentation refer to some things that I haven't or couldn't find in this short version or this longer version, so I'm going to say it in the end. However, you say that the number of cases was 3021 and 63% higher compared to the previous year with 2275 of them being completed, of which 898 cases were for the attorney general. In view of the number of employees, 29 of them plus the tenant, 30 of them are employees. You'd say it's not a big one, it's not a big number. You mentioned the right of members of the national minorities to be employed by the authorities of the state administration and you said that these were not sufficient results, it should have seemed to me somewhere around 5.5% and in fact there was about 3.5% left. I don't know how and how public procurements should be done for the authorities of the state administration, and then whether it would be discriminatory against the majority. Then you mentioned that in your work you were in charge of the Law on the Ombudsman, but the Law on the Ombudsman said in Article 16. "That the attorney general can also have special reports on a regular basis." One such request was made through the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, and it was related to the introduction of a health education curricula, but that did not happen. In your explanation, you said that there was no foundation and basis since the Constitutional Court said its own right. And last I didn't understand, you said that on the issue of the rights of the Islamic religion citizens, discrimination was made on the subject of popular cuisine, I didn't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81362	Thank you. Thank you very much. Miss twilight replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81363	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Madam Madam Attorney General, you can see the attorney general or, in general, this institution of the Attorney General has never again needed such an institution by this suffering Croatian people. And why is that? It is expected in reality, it says here that you are acting on complaints, but I would like you to sometimes publicly read about the Government here, which unfortunately placed us in a high 5 place in Europe by the number of poor people, and in a high 3 place in Europe by the number of unemployment. Attorney General, why didn't you react publicly and criticize the government publicly, and say please and warn you? It is not possible for 500 young doctors of science to lose their jobs and, for example, They engage in the Ministry of Environmental Protection of private consulting companies that generally take unimaginable money. I see here that you have responded to the complaint, is the head of the conference of postgraduate studies at the University of the Church, given the kind of work he does not have the right to seek proof of sacraments, etc., or any other religious evidence. However, I would like to know why the attorney general in the interest of the protection of the people, in the interest of young people, is simply not responding, is not allowed to be employed on the party line, regardless of whether he is professional and capable, and we have very much...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81364	Thank you. Thank you very much. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81365	Now I'm going to finish, please just one word, very many cases for people to finish college with, I don't know, 40 years and become deputy ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81366	My colleagues, thank you very much. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81367	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The esteemed attorney general, this is indeed a very high-quality report, but I would point to one fact, which is that the problems and topics that appear in the report appear since when there is a public defender until today. So there's one constant in problems. We register them every year, and that's what it's all about. According to this number, an increased number of cases have been reported to be increasing injustices in this country, and access to state institutions, courts and other bodies seems to be becoming more complicated. In this sense, it is truly commendable to this very detailed report, including the proposal for measures to be taken on a particular issue now, and I am absolutely in favour of extending and localising the work of the state's office of attorney. However, one small wheel remains to be hung, which is, when all the proposals are established, the measures which make them real, or who coordinates that realization? In my view, it should in some way signal to the government itself to prepare a plan of measures to address the identified problems because I think that it cannot remain just at the level of the ministry and the state bodies and the courts themselves, and then determine both the carriers and the deadlines for solving the problem. Otherwise, no matter how many Parliaments there are, there will be so many reports, and the problems will always be the same. And I think it's finally time to start reducing objects, at least those that have been constantly appearing for years as a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81368	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, a colleague, Branko Vukšić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81369	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed Ombudsman, co-workers and colleagues. I believe that Ms. Laura Vidovic is working, fair, interested, but as a parliamentary representative who seems to be talking to me three times about the same subject, I wonder if it all makes sense. And before my colleagues who spoke in replicas, they said, they confirmed one thought of me when I read it, and you gave us a great task, you said let us discuss not in summary, but in that more extensive report. To tell you the truth, that report feels like I've already read it somewhere. I've read all these problems three times. And now the question is, does all that make sense? I got a complaint here, a Mr. Podboy who says and what now, next year it will be prescribed in the next report of things solved by the foundation of an old good standard, ate a wolf donkey. That's what they got all the representatives' clubs on the table. We have such complaints from day to day. The Ombudsman's institution is relatively young and ineffective. That grudge that I'm about to say at the beginning, which goes to the expense of the Attorney General, you have to be publicly visible, you have to be more aggressive, you have to be more influential, and you can be that if you are more visible, more aggressive, you have to be more pervasive because, as your colleagues and colleagues here have established, the rule of law doesn't work. You should, your mission is to defend the regiment, you're the Attorney General. And you have so many elements, you should be the first person in the Republic of Croatia, the first media person because you have every day and as your report says, you... only respond to complaints than you do when you see something in the media. Freedom House concluded the judiciary was the weakest institution in Croatia the other day. You also indirectly, not in those words, say in your report. The European Chamber of Commerce on behalf of which Mrs Vedrana Likan spoke 10 days ago, says this, Croatia is a legally insecure country. We are at the bottom of the freedoms, at the very bottom, therefore you have a wide field of action, which we, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia don't feel. Your report confirms that the rule of law doesn't work, and by how long will we here and Parliamentarians and citizens of the Republic of Croatia tolerate criminally bad justice? Citizens in courts cannot exercise their legal rights, so in their report, the Attorney General is asking whether citizens can obtain more effective judicial protection because of unequal case-law, such as discrimination? I can't because we here in the Croatian Parliament are doing nothing to reform this judiciary under an excuse, which is an excuse for incompetence and inaction, the judiciary is independent, independent, no one will get involved in judicial proceedings but should reform the judiciary because this judiciary is not working and if 100 years don't work there won't be any more of this state and there will be no foundation on which it will work. So, you can't get rid of it, you can't get better protection from discrimination, not with such judges, courts, authorities who aren't ready for intervention, judicial reform, except of course cosmetic repairs. An urgent political and social intervention is needed in the handling of the judiciary, and the Assembly must be a place where the urgent process will take place in the autumn, and then act in the judiciary in order not to be hostages of bad judges and bad courts. This report is full of examples. Although 60 and several percent of complaints are more than in 2012, it is extremely low. Why? And this report says that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia don't trust the system so they don't have trust in the Ombudsman, i.e. the Ombudsman, I'm not talking about a person, so you don't think I'm talking about Lori Vidovic because you are in this situation like other institutions. Many citizens spoke to the Police Attorney because they could not get relevant information anywhere else, the report said. Right, and we'll see why. In complaints from the Attorney General... the consequences of the economic crisis and the increasingly difficult social situation are being seen. Any applications should be more? It's absolutely certain that Pučka's lawyer would say, giving the answer why they're not there, the citizens are afraid to report. We are not by chance free at the very bottom, citizens feel afraid, in 2014 citizens are afraid. That's terrible. It's terrible and defeating. It seems to me that when we introduced the Institute of the Police Attorney, that we introduced him after that, we saw a frog cremating a horse, so she took her foot up. Let's have a P.A. who can't solve anything and who won't solve anything, but we have, right here, Europe, we have the Attorney General. What can he do? Nothing. Send reports to the Parliament, and every year we have to repeat that they can't do anything. The biggest problem in the work of the Attorney General is the lack of timely answers from the authorities to the enquiries, and that's where we came in. Who's not responding to the attorney general's questions? Now listen carefully to the citizens, the parliamentary representatives must know that. The Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, Ms. Milanka Opačić, Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, Mr. Jovanovic, formerly, Ministry of Regional Development of EU Funds, Mr. Greek, Vice-President of the Government, which is not concerned by the People, which is not concerned by the Ombudsman, the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care, Mrs. Mirela Stanic-Popović. Be careful, the Ministry of Justice, Mr Milenić, whose laws we accept and praise, who should react first, does not answer. The Ministry of Administration, and who would rather not have the Ministry of Justice and Administration, Mr. Bauk, the IRS, who came to the House of Representatives and perhaps would be involved in the debate and let's see why she didn't do it. HZZO Sinisha Varga, a general who says it is a criminal way of communicating with citizens, has now changed the board now suddenly says everything in the protection of patients, has been working for 3 years 2.5 years against patients. So who's crazy here? Too bad, I hope I can get there to ask him a question because the Rules of Procedure have made it impossible for the MPs to discuss or ask the question, I cannot be in two places at the same time so that they do not accidentally object to Mr Milanovic and his watermen. What do you need with these people? Change them, change them. So long as the Prime Minister won't tell anyone who doesn't respect this country's system, who isn't responding to the occupier, who isn't responding to the citizens will be removed. When the First Minister of Change will begin to function. What does he say when he asks the opposition you want to replace? Ha, ha, ha, we're the government, we can do it. Well, you won't be able to, you won't be long. Varga was awarded a chair, a ministerial chair because he didn't want to talk to patients, because he didn't want to talk to the Association of Patients, because he was taking off his meds, because he was burning money, because as an employer, he acted as a capitalist. Suddenly, the gentleman changes the record, and now we will see what he will do, do his public health, and then Mrs. Lora Vidovic will have more work to do. Next year he'll realize it wasn't working, it wasn't working when he was in one function or when he was in another. In 2013, discrimination increased by almost 23%. Who's being discriminated against? Not only should the Croats, Serbs and Roma, the elderly, mean not only Serbs and Roma, the elderly, the sick, the poor and the workers. Who does this country even exist for? For a handful of rich people. So if the elderly, the sick, the poor, the workers are discriminated, so whose country is this? The most discrimination in the fields of labour and employment is, read, it is the will of capitalists, the carelessness of the government and parliament. Citizens don't trust the system, citizens don't trust the government and the government and the past so it doesn't happen that it was much better before. A large number of complaints about courts, quality of work and a long-term trial. Is it necessary to even say how bad this judiciary is when, for example, desert debates are being held for 20 years and after 20 years they are at the very beginning and are returning to the municipal court so long as they die, I guess the third generation will come to get a powerful verdict. 40 years of litigation, so they started in socialism, I don't know where the system is going to be. There's a little less complaints about the DORH. This is the 2013 report they probably didn't trust either in Bajic, so they didn't even complain to him. Croatian Employment Institute abolishes cash compensation during employment, Croatian entrepreneurs do not extend work contracts for a certain period of time, illegal overtime, non-payment of fees and salaries for overtime, non-payment of salaries, abuse of work. These are all the comments set out in the report. So I'm asking again, who is this country for? If not for your citizens, eating what Nitze state says is a lie. She says before Mrs. Lora Vidovic in her presentation, there are minimum fees for older and powerless persons and they are below that is my claim, human dignity. Croatia is only a declarative social state. Social benefits, the report said, are inadmissible. On a daily basis, citizens face gas charges, electricity, for a TV subscription. So they're not the rich guys who buy buicks and I don't know which angry cars they're all citizens who can no longer live on welfare, on minimum pensions, on minimum salaries. And here, what I said at the beginning, the public health care is sick, it's not working, the prime minister has waited 2.5 years to be warned from this meeting room that the minister is not doing well. But now I wonder if it's rematchism or if the really prime minister has seen it, so he's seen that it's a bad thing to do in health care. The report confirms that. What kind of conditions does the attorney general work in the end now? In limited, spatial and financial conditions. But at the same time, the government's demining office is holding consultations at five-star hotels. At the same time, bosses and clerks, agencies and councils iron cards on tens of thousands of kunas per month and travel the world as drunk millionaires. Yes, there is a need for the offices of the attorney general throughout Croatia. However, if the attorney general or the Institute of the Public Attorney's Office has no influence in Croatian society, I wonder if this is really necessary? Recommendation of state bodies and smart institutions, correct but not critical enough, there is no repeat I will at the beginning have no aggression, no penetration, no influence, no feeling that the Public Attorney's Office is on the right side and that it is agile and that it is indeed the only institution that cares about the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81370	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81371	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Vuksic, I agree with your question, does it make any sense to discuss these reports at all, that this is true, so after several reports by the attorney general but also by the attorney general, I think that this is a key question that we in the Assembly should give an answer and we will not give it today. You know why? Because politics in principle is not particularly interested in the office of the occupier or any other lawyer because it is still perceived as a kind of decoration of democracy, so put it in the reports, we also have the office of the occupier and many others and the matter is over. When is that gonna turn around or when would that turn around? One day when in the Croatian Parliament after a report like this and I intend to list it, but this is not the first time, this is who knows which time to list the ministries that not only produce the largest number of complaints but then listen to questions coming from the office of the occupier, i.e. the Ombudsman, which they send a clear message only you play and sing it to us absolutely does not concern us. When would that change? If this is the case with the Ministry that you have counted, and I will, I will not be wasting my time now, when the Croatian Parliament would conclude at the end of this debate that it is seeking within 8 days to show the ministries, which I repeat produce the biggest problems but then do not respond to the occupier's reasons why they have not responded, and then the Croatian Parliament would, by its majority, decide that such ministers who work badly must leave. Then it will change and by then there will be plenty more water under the Sava Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81372	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81373	Dear fellow Kosor, yes, the basic question is whether it makes any sense from year to year to repeat. However, just before we talked about the powerful verdict and Mr Sanader found that the political climate was very important for anti-corruption action, that this was not a political haranga but rather a judicial matter. So there's no political will here to strengthen the Ombudsman's staff institute, that the attorney general really has some powers. You have repeated what I have said that, after the conclusion, we should ask all these ministers within 8 days to show why they do not meet their obligations. But the government would fall, that's half the government, not doing its job. It's just a little bit numbered, there's probably someone else in some other segments, today we're talking about the occupier. But it would be enough if only the Prime Minister said at a government meeting who doesn't want it in eight days, I'll have him replaced. It is political will, but Zoran Milanovic is doing his job reluctantly and we all get on his nerves, especially those who criticise, especially those who criticise and have no solution anywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81374	Drazen Pandek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81375	Thank you. So an esteemed colleague would also refer to your allegations about the impunity of the state's body's conduct on the attorney general's enquiries. In any case, I would agree that there is a need to continue to insist on increasing the urgency of responding to the questions but I would remind you that we have now, in the last amendments to the Law on the Public Attorney's Office, even given certain strengthened powers to the vacancy attorney. So, for example, in this current paragraph of Article 27, paragraph 5 allows the Ombudsman to propose to initiate appropriate proceedings against persons who, therefore, are not aware of the violation of constitutional law or do not take appropriate measures to ensure that the damage continues to be reduced or corrected. I'd even encourage the attorney general to use maybe that article... try to influence the heads of those bodies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I would personally interpret that when a state body does not respond to an injury if there is a description of this article because it does not take appropriate measures to ensure that the continuation of the damage is reduced or corrected. I would encourage even a certain increase in the authority of the attorney general, so let's say when he has the authority to review the place without prior notice when we talk about these people where they are deprived of their freedom. I would even properly suggest that such a... the article also proposes for other cases where there is a suspicion of infringement of certain rights. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that he can question himself and request an examination in the offices of the ministries or the conduct of the relevant officials in a similar way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81376	Thank you very much. Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81377	Dear fellow Pandek, here's the deal. And it's a good thing you've pointed out the possibilities that the attorney general has. So now I'm asking the attorney general one question that will ultimately answer the question and how many proceedings she has brought against the ministers, and also against the Prime Minister who allows non-chalant behaviour? Is he afraid or was there a condition in 2013 that he would come to that position not to touch the government? Let him answer that question. Is he brave enough to act as the law allows? Do not continue to insist on the urgency of Mr. Pandek, you should begin to act without insisting on the urgency. We're going to say come on, be a little more up-to-date and then we'll hear it with this ear don't need microphones, as they smile on the other side of Mark's square, they won't be up-to-date.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81378	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81379	I don't think you should ask yourself if it makes sense, it always makes sense to always talk about unfavorable phenomena and undesirables in society. It's a business similar to Sizif's pushing a rock up the hill but it's the only way to change political culture and then it's the only way to change the social state. And you have rightly warned of special discrimination in the field of labour law and in the field of work. Imagine the discriminatory question at the very interview where women are most often at the interview where women are most often exposed to such discrimination, whether you are going to get married, whether you are going to have a baby, and if you happen to say that in most cases they will not be admitted to work because it is not desirable for those who are being used today. What about discrimination for women working up to 23 hours at malls and Saturdays and Sundays, and nowhere in neighbouring countries is that. How discriminated they are, how discriminated against labour disputes they are, and only otherwise, work disputes are very short-term, even always in favour of workers, but only when labour disputes against financial institutions are then long, and in the rule against workers. Interestingly, what discrimination there is, what discrimination there is when thousands of people work through a student service regular work, and it is known that by law the student service can only make a replacement for the short term, if someone goes on sick leave or on vacation. A thousand people work at a company regular work through a student service. Which is discrimination against everyone else. And otherwise, you said only Roma or Serbs were mostly discriminated against, but everyone was discriminated against. So remember a little relationship with telecommunications operators, with HEP and all other institutions, not to mention. There's no such relationship anywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81380	Thank you. Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81381	Dear colleague Maric, I'll start at the end of your line, that thousands of people do you said regular work through student service. Here's one firm I've called 50 times, it's a Croatian telecom that's only a telecom, it's not a Croatian, it's only an adjective. There they fired everything they could fire and when you get, you always get students in all the positions where they worked before and professional people, you get a student who says sorry I'm not guilty, I don't know. I don't know. They work for significantly lower wages than the workers did, they have no right, they don't even have the right to tell the truth. And they're still telling you it's being recorded, so don't be rude. I cut a lot of things because I have problems with all these para-state bodies, and they are states in the state because they have money, because they have a handful of government and the government favors them. Yes, these are discrimination, discrimination and people who are there students and those who have been fired, as well as citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are clients of these telecommunications companies. Yeah, it makes sense to talk, we're here to talk and warn. You were talking about what it's like in malls, big trade chains. That's where women work 12 hours, and none of them are allowed to be put under. He gets paid for eight hours, four hours working for some Todorovics and all these others, not to mention just one, so all the other chains work for free. And the explanation of their boss, too many of them are waiting for your job, if you don't work for four hours free, you'll get a work book because in Croatia no one protects you. And disputes last ten years, you're very wrong. Disputes don't work out.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81382	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81383	Dear colleague Vuksic, I don't think it's as good as you've been talking about the report by the attorney general. In fact, one minute you said you saw a frog slicing a horse and she took her foot up. So Croatia also has a public defender at the moment, but it doesn't really know what to do with him, so it would be of any use to him. I think it's very bad, I think the Attorney General's Office is recognized as the attorney general herself said it's still not enough, but it's done. It's about being more recognizable. Of course, in this work he encounters difficulties and limitations, as well as those financial ones. What I'm trying to say is that Mr. Jurica Malcic, former staff attorney, has set really high standards, but I also believe that the current attorney general will justify those standards, however, that he will overcome them in his work. The Office of the Attorney General has just confirmed the data we read from the report, which is that during 2013 the number of complaints has increased as much as 63% compared to 2012. I also claim that it is not true that the government is not interested in the work of the attorney general. In fact, the government’s view as a kind of reaction to the public defender’s report counts as many as 29 pages. So the government is very perceptive of the office and has a very good view of its work.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81384	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81385	That's what I often hear from my colleagues, Jelash, on your part, it's not good to discuss it that way. It's not a good way to run a country like you run a state, so you pushed her into a break-in. You said now in the end that the government is interested in the work of the attorney general, that you have for this evidence, and that's 29 pages of evidence. And I have proof of all those ministries that don't even want to hang out with the attorney general. This was fulfilled by an officer who had the task of fulfilling what had to be fulfilled and must be manifested and a little bit of ash, nothing else. When I was saying this, when I saw a frog plowing a horse and I raised my leg, I wasn't thinking for sure about the attorney general, I was talking about the civil defender's office that was founded in the '90s, so nothing changes. Every year we talk the same thing, every time we talk about the same thing. And it's not true that he's been recognized by the Institute of Police Attorneys. 3,000 complaints in a state where nothing works just means, that would be 300,000 complaints if it were recognized. This just means that people have no confidence in the institutions of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81386	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81387	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will support this report for 2013. What is certainly marked by this debate that we have had up to now 3 special reports - a report submitted by the Ombudsman under the Law on the Ombudsman, a report submitted under the Law on the National Prevention Mechanism for the Prevention of Torture and other cruel inhuman and humiliating proceedings and punishments and a report on the occurrences of discrimination in accordance with the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Discrimination. This 2013 Report is the first report by the new Rules of Procedure of the Advocate General and brings together the earlier three special reports. This is certainly good because it gives a united picture in the area of the implementation of human rights protection. The work of the Ombudsman is surrounded by the promotion and protection of human rights and freedoms established by the Constitution, laws and international legal acts on human rights and freedoms adopted by the Republic of Croatia. According to the Law on the Ombudsman, the attorney general promotes and protects human rights and freedoms, as well as the rule of law. The Ombudsman monitors the situation and points to the need for their protection, carries out research-analytical activities, develops and maintains a database and documentation, timely and regular information to the public and stakeholders, actively encourages and maintains cooperation with civil society organisations, international organisations and research institutions, and encourages the harmonisation of legislation with international and European standards and their application. According to the Law on the Ombudsman and this 2013 Report, the Ombudsman in 2013 included all segments and activities given to him by the Law on the Ombudsman. Furthermore, the Ombudsman monitors the compliance of laws and regulations with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and international legal acts, makes recommendations, opinions, proposals and warnings, reminding me that the Centre for Human Rights is attached in the Office of the Ombudsman and the amended law of June 2012. For this reason, of course, it is extremely important, with all the financial constraints that the economic crisis has led to a maximum effort to improve the now limited and financial and spatial conditions of the Ombudsman's Office, so that the powers of the Ombudsman can be exercised in good time and in good time. As we have already heard from the reports so far, with the fact that a united report of the important circumstances marked by the work of the office in 2013 is the appointment of the attorney general and her deputies as well as a major increase in complaints against citizens. The number of newly opened cases is up by as much as 53% compared to 2012, and the particular problem is the lack of a timely response by the competent authorities to the hearings of the attorney general. By increasing the number of cases by almost 23% in the occurrences of discrimination, we certainly cannot be satisfied. The number of cases is growing although the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination has created assumptions for the exercise of the rights of equal opportunities and has regulated the protection against discrimination based on race or ethnicity or on skin colour, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, national or social origin, property, education, social status, marital or family status, genetic heritage, birth identity, expression or sexual orientation. The number and content of the case shows that direct or indirect discrimination is not only present but that in that part the number of cases is increasing. During 2013, we also witnessed an incentive to discrimination and all this despite the legal prohibition of discrimination in all forms of occurrence and despite the fact that the legal provisions concern the conduct of all state bodies, but also the bodies of units of local and regional self-government, refer to legal persons with public authority as well as to the conduct of all legal and all natural persons. The Public Attorney's Office shall be the central authority responsible for the fight against discrimination, and all judicial authorities shall keep records of cases relating to discrimination and grounds of discrimination and shall submit them to the Ministry of Justice. When we look at statistical indicators in 2013 as well as previous years, the most important basis for complaints about discrimination is race or ethnicity, so skin colour or national origin, with as much as 23% of the total number, and when further analysed is most frequently in the field of labour and employment. Which, with the basis of the legal provision, everyone believes that he is being violated because of discrimination, is a right to seek the protection of that right before the court, gives us information on judicial cases relating to discrimination. Although the courts in these proceedings are obliged to take urgent action in order to ensure that all claims on discrimination are made as soon as they examine the data, we certainly cannot be satisfied. If only 30% of the cases are solved in an emergency procedure of the total number of cases, it cannot be a satisfactory data. If only 20% of the cases have been resolved in the litigation procedure, and only two lawsuits have been accepted from 20% of those cases, the fact speaks for itself, because there is certainly no room for hanging litigation in the living room. Of course, it also concerns the inequality of the practices of the Administrative Courts since the Administrative Courts resolve disputes on the legality of administrative acts, and therefore the recommendation of the Advocate General of the Judicial College to organise the education of judges of administrative courts on the anti-discrimination legislation of the Republic of Croatia speaks for itself about the issue and the situation. In the area of the protection of human rights in the area of justice in light of complaints about the length of the trials and the effectiveness of the SDP courts, it points out that it is systematically continuing to develop and adopt a series of organisational and procedural laws aimed at strengthening efficiency in the work of courts, the development of IT tools in the management of court cases, the development of alternative ways of dispute resolution, the development of a free legal assistance system, which will ultimately affect the length of the proceedings and the efficiency of courts. The shorter the proceedings, the more uniform the case law will be, and the more powerful the protection of human rights. In addition to all the legal solutions provided for before us, a comprehensive judicial system reorganisation project is in the final phase and will certainly contribute to the achievement of judicial protection within reasonable deadlines. The fact that the legal solutions themselves have already led to positive shifts also shows that the compensation for the infringement of the right to trial was paid within a reasonable period of time in 2013 in the amount of 27 million kuna compared to 2012 when the total fee amounted to HRK 36.5 million. Therefore, the reorganisation of the judicial system will contribute to further protection because the uneven workload also reflects the length of the proceedings. In relation to discrimination based on racial and ethnicity and national origin at the general level, multiculturalism is supported and xenophobic attitudes are not shown, but the practice is unfortunately different. And here in the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, all the legal provisions that gave rise to assumptions for the achievement of protection received unanimous support both in the debates and in the vote, but in practice we have very often testified that one part of the fellow who voted to protect against discrimination is giving support to just such discriminatory actions and actions. Therefore, in addition to all the recommendations recommended by this title to local self-government units and state authorities in order to prevent discrimination in everyday life, everyone, all social entities and some of us parliamentary representatives who here declare legal assumptions to protect against discrimination. Politicians play one of the important roles in forming a public opinion, and we will agree that we should also have responsibility for the publicly spoken word and procedure. The part relating to persons deprived of liberty and the performance of the work of the National Prevention Mechanism indicates that the trend in reducing the circulation of the prison is noticeable but that the average accumulation of 149% indicates that measures are still needed to reduce the population of the prison system. In accordance with the recommendations of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and, accordingly, with the recommendations of the Advocate General, it is expected that part will be resolved in 2014. The issue of protective measures of mandatory psychiatric treatment in the infringement procedure has been resolved by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code during 2013 with the catalogue of protective measures. And recommendations related to forced hospitalization as one of the most sensitive issues of protection of persons with mental disturbances The Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disorders was adopted this year in the Croatian Assembly. Finally, with the invitation of all segments of the company to respect human rights, the SDP club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81388	Thank you, too, dear colleague. We have a replica of the esteemed representative of Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81389	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, you said the D.A. worked in accordance with the law and your powers. And that's true, it's nobody here today that's not even challenging. There is a problem here that can be done to sanction those who are also in the system of, say, public administrations, state administrations, who do not comply with the law. Because I'm bonding again to what was said at the beginning, if it's a positive shift that some ministry is responding to a citizen within 200 days while others are doing it within a year and a half, then I'm asking how to sanction that kind of state administration behavior? And that's the point of things. So, here is not a question of whether the Attorney General works or not, but it only makes recommendations because it is the law. So you have to take a step further.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81390	Replica response, respected representative Vesna Fabiančić-Krisjanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81391	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Hrg, when I said that the operation of the Public Attorney's Office is in accordance with the law and powers, that means what he can do is in accordance with the law. Therefore, until the law is changed in terms of some sanctions, the Ombudsman is doing exactly as we predicted and voted in this Croatian Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81392	Thank you, too. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is the SDSS club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81393	I would like to thank the President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Attorney General with her colleague. You have brought us here a very serious, very thorough and very interesting report on the work of your institution for 2013. So, these 200 if you analyze this whole text, two hundred and something side was, one very interesting job to analyze over the weekend. For us members of national minorities as conditioned by one of the vulnerable groups in society, by definition is of particular interest, it is of particular interest that the institution of the occupier and as the Ombudsman is said to be placed in the right way, in a quality way and would be the happiest if, for some time, what is realistically expected, it would work with its full capacity and its legal power in such a way as it is in the Nordic countries where the real ombudsman institutions have one place above all institutions as a reflection of the special standard of living and social standard of citizens. In this report, you have initially detected the basic elements that extend throughout the report as a light motive, which is that in 2013, compared to 2012, there was an increase in the number of complaints by 63%. You have also shown this to these sizes, and you have also said that the largest part, the highest concentration of complaints from central Croatia, which contributes to your thesis that regional offices should be opened especially on the periphery, especially in rural areas, especially in the areas of return environments so that your institution is more accessible to them, and not at this moment. You have clearly said that there is also a problem with the lack of information or limited information of citizens about the very use of the Ombudsman's institute. Implementation, you have observed what we always say, the Republic of Croatia has extraordinary laws, but the problem arises in their implementation. And of course, the funds that are always an eternal problem of the functioning of the institutions, the funds are limited to the work of the public defender, you are human beings, so not professionally, but numbered, you can't deal with a bunch of problems that are coming to you. And we've pointed out that in the budget, and in the budget amendment, we've asked for an increase in funds for your institution. I am pleased that certain colleagues of the HNS, previous speakers have accepted the fact that you need to provide decent funds in the next budget in order for your institution to develop, and I hope that that is how it will then accept such a concept of the budget. So, when all of this is announced we're still quite far from the ideal that it's set in countries like Norway, Sweden, etc. But, well, I'm going to go through some of the positions that you've analyzed here. First of all, you've handled the group of rights of national minorities well, you've warned here about representation of members of national minorities in the bodies of the state administration, that's exactly what we keep saying and we point to. It is clear that employment representation should be increased to the size of 5.5% that the government has given itself, even with its plan to join members of national minorities in the state service, it has given itself as size it remains at a level of 3.5% which is unsatisfactory. But the principle of how it's done is the same thing to talk about. You have made it clear here that filling up is being solved in a way that the vacant posts resulting from retirement or transfer are only then filled in by members of the national minorities and, on a very bad principle, 2 went away by 1 received. You can see that in the field, of course, and we talked about it a lot. The advantage of employment as a kind of positive discrimination in the case of the employment of members of national minorities is not used properly because people are not informed and they do not even know what it means to call for priority in employment, and they also do not know what stage to call for priority in employment. Of course it should be done when applying for a competition, not when the competition is closed. It also takes time to inform people about this matter in order to know how to properly use the Institute’s advantage in employment, which is ultimately a legal category. In this part you have interestingly looked back on something that will likely be very current in recent times, which is equal use, official use of language and letters. So you have very well explained what the future referendum means, that the substantial reduction of the amount of rights prescribed by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities is, popularly, a referendum on Cyrillic. You have said here that, from international documents protecting minority rights, the most important thing is to attach itself to the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities of the Council of Europe and you have also very well detected the Advisory Committee in its thematic comment for 2012, it warns Member States that setting a threshold for the exercise of the right of equal use of language and letter of national minorities must be flexible. The threshold must not be set so that members of minorities must make up half of the total population of a local area, i.e. a direct violation of the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities is set. It is an important sentence for all future events that will take place in a referendum on Cyrillic which will likely follow very quickly. Please note here that there are currently 5 minority languages in official use in 27 cities or municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, while there are still statutes of local self-government in the official use of 6 minority languages in 30 local self-government. If a referendum restricts such rights as intensity, then everything would remain 1 minority language in use in 17 units of local self-government and that is the thing and the danger that we have warned about. So it's not just a referendum on Cyrillic, it's going to refer to narrowing down, to the regression of the rights of all national minorities in this sphere. When you spoke of citizenship, you made it clear that people who were on the day of October 08, '91. years of residence in the Republic of Croatia, which were in the category of returnees, have the possibility of obtaining Croatian citizenship at birth. Of course, it's a very high social quality of people and you have a lot of cases that people today in third generation live in the Republic of Croatia, they don't have resolved citizenship, they don't have a solution because, therefore, the legislation is well set up. In practice, the problem is in a long procedure to resolve the acquisition of citizenship, the problem is that they must personally submit these requirements, and they are often physically disabled to do so and of course, there are two categories, two conditions, which is to prove belonging to the Croatian people, early declaration and membership or active participation in Croatian cultural, scientific, sports associations. These are all elements that lead to the long-term process of obtaining citizenship and lead to a very awkward situation for people who live permanently in the Republic of Croatia, and in the category are foreigners, they still haven't solved this situation. Membership in trade unions is a very interesting finding that union membership has become a dangerous thing in the Republic of Croatia. So there is a tendency here that someone who is a union activist to be punished by an employer especially by removing a job or redistributing it to a more unfavourable workplace. The question of whether it might be the twilight of some union life or whether we're going back to a 30-year-old, when we're starting a union conception with us. I hope it doesn't come to this, but it's an interesting phenomenon that no one's ever talked alarmingly about this phenomenon that you've told us about here before. Retired and elderly, you've worked very well on the position of the pensioners. Here you said there were good intensities, that in the cases in which the Control Office was addressed, to the control of the body of HZZO, they got deadlines, so in the fast deadlines they got answers which, of course, was good. We can see that it's well-solved and convalescent. I'd just say here, why didn't you open the question, so you didn't mention the problem somewhere 20,000 people looking for pensions for, pensions for the period until '95. A year. Of course that's what needs to be discussed, but let's open that thesis, that topic, I think it's a very good topic for the Attorney General to deal with the fact that these 20,000 people have been rejected with a request for retirement in the period of '91-'95. years, and there's no legal basis for that thing. Discrimination in the field of education, I'll just say something. So, I don't know if it's known how hard it is to get a conqualification, not a conqualification, but to recognize the same value... diplomas that are for students, high school students, or students who have acquired those diplomas outside the borders of Croatia, and in the countries of the former Yugoslavia. It is a very difficult process, a very complicated process, because we have transferred the nosetriification to the chamber system, to professional organisations that are voluntary associations, which are burdensome, which have no professional teaming to do so and which, of course, our young people who want to return as... to Croatia and want to work and want to be doctors, want to be dentists, depend on whether the chamber of dentists or medical chambers will nostrate them and their diplomas. Processes last a few years and, among other things, they cost a tremendous amount of money. Nostration costs 11,000 kuna, 5,000 kuna cost the difference of passing a single exam, 8,000 professional adjustments to each exam and mentors with 1500 kuna, without 30,000 kunas can't nostrate a diploma, and we're looking for doctors, we have them here. I've got a case from Grazac, I've got a case from Senj, people who are dentists, doctors can't start working because it takes 30,000 kunas and that the chamber is nostrating a diploma that's never done a chamber, it's always been the ministry in the administrative procedure. The chamber can't even do administrative procedure as far as I know, or maybe I don't know. So, the mass of young people wait to get rid of these things so they can start working here with us. The category of intolerance in sports competitions, you have done very nicely here steps in terms of "For Home Ready", etc. I'm not going to pollomise on the values of these steps, it's, obviously, the public's polluted and for and against, some say for, some say against. What's not said and what's said here is an interesting fact, that thing costs us about, here you said here that the UEFAs were supposed to pay about 300,000 euros, out of which 118 thousand euros for discrimination violations, so statements in stadiums. 200 thousand Swiss francs we paid for six games, of the seven games A team played, the six recorded... of that kind and it cost an alliance of 200,000 francs. I'm asking the question, would the owner of the Real One allow him to pay 300,000 euros for someone's incidents? He wouldn't because it's his cash register and God would've solved that kind of incident in the stadiums. This is obviously no one's register, and everyone's allowed to do what they want, so if they yell "For Home Ready," they pay 300,000 euros, honor from tickets, honor the European, UEFA and let the UEFA develop, let them develop their stadiums, their football alliance, and we don't have to do it. So that's the dimension I'm starting to look at in that way. And about that, you should finally tell people what it means, how much that kind of turns out to be, that kind of incorrect behavior. So we minorities are no longer right whether it affects us or not, it is now the economic effects of such an act. And in the end I'll just say, so you were talking about the housing category, the fact that there are 11,000 applicants in 2013, here it's important to say unsettled applicants, of which 64 refers to exiles, 64 persons and 580 were holders, former tenants. The other 10,000 are each other's categories, so they're not returnees who want to come back. 4000 is the domestic population living here waiting for this accommodation, and about 5 thousand are different categories of Croatian defenders. So it's a mass of 11 thousand cases to be solved in the context of housing for 2013. Otherwise, the total number of more unsolved cases is around 30,000, of which only 4.5 thousand are in the return category, in other words 4.5 thousand people of Serbian nationality. We will anyway support this report of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81394	Thank you. Let's go to the replicas, honorary representative Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81395	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Horvat would agree in this section when you spoke about the nostrification of foreign diplomas, especially apostrophe of the lack of medical staff as well as the staff of nurses currently in Croatia. And I'm sure it's a good thing she warned the attorney general about that, too. I understand that you, as a member of the national minorities, are protecting and fighting for more rights of national minorities, which is what we do in accordance with the law and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, but you are also apostropheti, you said about the exercise of the rights of members of national minorities in the field of employment in state administration bodies that did not result in the desired effects, you said. Now I'm interested, and I'd like to hear from you how such a contest should look and be such a contest, let's say it was discriminatory compared to most in the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81396	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81397	An esteemed colleague, first of all, is a big problem bigger than we think, because a whole group of young people who went to school want to work somewhere in this country, and we're trying to stop them by administrative means. And we need to change that thing, we need to make it cheaper, and we need to simplify it, and we need to give people a chance to do both the practice and the internships, and to give this country the knowledge that they've been trained for. In terms of employment, this is an eternal topic. So it is not discriminatory because the law said that a member of a national minority can be called upon to take advantage of employment in such a way that if it is two engineers or two doctors of the same knowledge, the same score sheets have an advantage of a member of the national minority. It is precisely because it would reach that rate of 5.5% in state and public institutions as far as the government has given itself the task. In the end, it's all ex-lege, it's all prescribed. It may seem from the point of view of the majority people that it is discrimination today when there is absolutely no chance of a job, but my God, after 20 years we have come to the situation that still a majority of people have the advantage of employment because that practice says, and it also happens when a member of the national minority specifically comes to us in the Hungarian Catastre who should know Hungarian because the parties who communicate there are also in his place no more. So that's what we point out to be taken into account when it comes to employment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81398	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative of Đurjica twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81399	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Horvat, all of what you said about the problems of national minorities, the same problems are unfortunately present among the majority Croatian people as well. You mentioned some practices and how in reality today being a very insecure member of a union, but you see a colleague today is terribly insecure, depressing, uncertain and just impossible to be a young man, it is impossible to have up to 30 years of age, live with parents, be unemployed, watch corruption around you, feel the concern of the authorities for these young people, in which we send these young people and what is the message of all this. You said it was dusk, it wasn't a fellow of the twilight, something else was seen at dusk, something was being watched. It is the darkness that has sat over this Croatia and until this darkness is cleared we cannot talk about either the specific nor the rights of national minorities to understand them because most of them have the same problems as the national minority at this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81400	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81401	I thank my colleague, twilight, you've said a few things here, but I think it's the fundamental thing of your debate that this is the situation now. I'd say that condition lasts a little longer, a little sooner. So we're all a little bit of that political life involved in that one mile, and we've all contributed to this situation that we're in right now, so it's not just an exclusive of the current government. What I said when I spoke about the union was incomprehensible to me that today's union membership could be a danger to work, and at the same time, it's incomprehensible to me that the union didn't talk about it, that for the first time now the attorney general has spoken about it. Why is the union silent? Why don't they say they have problems with employers because they're members of these organisations, and it would be logical that the union is the opposite of being the protector of all workers and about what you say, so in situations where it's getting worse and harder it makes sense that the union has stronger activity, a stronger role in society and that it provides stronger and more concrete protection for these workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81402	We're continuing the debate. At work is respected representative Jadranka Kosor of her club and HGS.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81403	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed attorney with the co-worker. At first, it should be said that we will support this report. It is perfectly well-conceived, it is indeed comprehensive and anyone who wants to know what the state of human rights is, above all, at this time in the Republic of Croatia should read, of course, a full report based on a number of laws that are in place and written by the Ombudsman, but I think that the basis of this report is that of the problem in Croatian society, the Law on Disclosure of Discrimination which we adopted in 2008. I remind you that this law was one of the criteria for opening a chapter and that we brought it almost by consensus in the Croatian Parliament. However, this law, especially in politics, is seen by many, as well as by the Ombudsman's Office as a kind of flower, a carnation that is put into the cracks when we need it, and in fact, the law is often completely ignored in all segments of our life. It should be known, and perhaps it is, in fact, my proposal to the Advocate General to maybe make it through the years, so not only in your term of office but in the years, that is, from the beginning of the Office of the General Prosecutor in the Republic of Croatia to make an analysis. In this respect, of course, state institutions, i.e. the Ministry of State, should assist in this, but a comprehensive analysis should be made of the recommendations made by the Ombudsmans, so far the Office of the Public Prosecutors, on the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament, on the implementation of the Law on Initiatives that came from the Office of the Ombudsman and on how these initiatives were implemented in life. Or as far as these recommendations have been implemented, accepted, prepared, how much has been translated into laws, how much has been translated into amendments to the law, certain initiatives. I think that such an analysis could help us answer the question that he asked earlier, and that fellow Vuksic makes any sense, whether this debate makes sense. Of course, there is, of course, an effort should be made every year to take a step further into the protection of human rights because the protection of human rights is never enough and, of course, never too much. What I would personally like to commend in the work of the new attorney general is that, and it is also visible in this report that several times, on behalf of the office, it was, of course, clearly and precisely stated in the Croatian public about certain phenomena. So, which would be said by nothing, but caused by social phenomena, caused by certain activities, caused by certain political struggles, divisions. I mention this above all about holding a referendum on embedding the definition of marriage in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia but also about this second referendum that is in sight. Therefore, regardless of the view of the Advocate General, he or she has the right to present it and, of course, to uphold the Constitution or the laws for which he or she considers to be behind her or her Office of Advocates. Speaking of the referendum, Mr. President, I will use the occasion and only appeal once again, I am talking about this referendum pending the number of signatures, and I suggest that we do not delay this, regardless of our views and different opinions on whether this referendum is in accordance with the Constitution or not. I propose that we rush the government and that the debate be held by the end of the summer session and that, on the basis of this debate, a request be sent to the Constitutional Court to show about constitutionality or unconstitutional issues. Because there is a summer committee ahead of us, so we will work very little longer, after which we will go on vacations, we are expected to continue working only after September 15th, because here are the constitutional changes and none of them have stopped and I have suggested that we delete from the Constitution this provision which only makes it impossible for the Croatian Parliament from all Croatian institutions to work from 15 July to 15 September. So I suggest that we finish this job in this second degree on this second step and hold a hearing by July 15th, repeat and send our request to the Constitutional Court. Of course, the report shows that 63% of the larger figures, i.e. the increase in the number of cases recorded by the Attorney's Office, say that the situation in law enforcement, applicable laws above all, respect for human rights, the implementation of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, but many others are not good. Still, when you look at that table that speaks about the number of cases in certain areas, although the number of applications did not increase but decreased compared to last year but the largest number of complaints remained by citizens of the Office of the Attorney General refers to the judiciary. So to the judiciary, to the functioning of the rule of law. Deaf state bodies is something that the attorney general does not actually visit for a long time but clearly states which bodies or institutions generate the largest number of complaints, hence their unhappiness or poor work or wrong work, generate the largest number of complaints and do not respond to the requests of the Ombudsman's Office. So they should be listed again, so the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the regional development and funds of the European Union, the Ministry of Justice, the administration, the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care, the Ministry of Finance, HZZO and no one at all. So again, we may mention this again sometime today in the debate, and this information will be completely shut down and these ministries and these authorities of the state administration will continue to shake hands when they are asked by the Office of the General Prosecutor for the Translucency. Perhaps this is the time to stop this practice, perhaps the Croatian Parliament has the strength to conclude at this time that, as I have just proposed, these bodies are asking to submit a report within 8 days on why they have demeaned the work of the Office of the Attorney General, the Ombudsman's institution, and on the basis of these arguments, then I propose that the Government make decisions. It would be good for most in the Croatian Parliament to make such a decision, we will finish work on Wednesday, but of course we should look into the past and say that never particularly politics, especially when criticism comes from the Office of Advocates was not particularly happy, of course, and that is logical. The areas of protection of human rights, so I have already mentioned the judiciary, so long-term trial and the efficiency of the courts. It is interesting that these days the Freedom House report is coming, so the non-governmental organizations related to the nations in transition, so it is 29 countries where the civil society of the judiciary was primarily observed, and at the same time the Freedom House and the Office of the Attorney General are similar. Interestingly, this year that report I saw Freedom House was very, very scarce, minimally listed in Croatian media. It's also one of the interesting things. However, what we need to be concerned about, and according to this study, we are very, very low on that scale. In that sense, it is better than us and Serbia. The right of national minorities, it's just as much the area that the attorney general is dealing with, and I repeat, it's a good thing he has his point of view here. Rehabilitation and housing, it seems to me that after the adoption of amendments to the Law on PPDS that you will be overwhelmed by the demands of the Croatian defenders, who have nothing to complain about, since the law has been amended in such a way that the deadlines for the implementation of the law and the fulfilment of the legal provisions have been completely ignored, and that the law has actually been amended in such a way that the deadlines have already expired and that the law has been changed in the Croatian Parliament. So with everything else this process will be the foundation and can be the basis for Croatian defenders' lawsuits. Working and official relations, therefore, of course, the unemployed have the most reason to complain about the Office of the Attorney General, but of course I won't repeat much, but the fact that today many women in the Republic of Croatia, especially young women who want to work, have to suffer torture they don't even want to report publicly, which is why they don't even want to speak publicly. And that's what's wrong because, let's say, I'm talking about salesgirls, because they know I can lose my job but that's when it's gonna be hard to find. Someone who would appear on television screens and be publicly exposed hard to find more work, and still remain in spite of legal restrictions and condemnation to the public, because I cannot remember in the political space of any politician who would support it. Nevertheless, only women continue to wonder if they are married, if they want to have children, if they have two more, if they have a third and there are not a small number of times that women who usually work for small wages and work hard jobs have been hiding pregnancy for a long time. They hide their pregnancy from the employer so they don't put themselves in an unfavourable position. Thus, it is one area where we have not definitely succeeded even though many have worked hard, but we have failed. Protecting older people, also something I think you deserve special attention from the Croatian Parliament. The Ombudsman, of course, points out here by the Ministry of Social Welfare, i.e. Social Policy and Youth, to certain measures. I'm not sure the Ministry is going to carry them out. In all this, good instruments, good institutes such as the Geronto home system, are removed, so to help older, powerless, abandoned persons, especially on PPDS. The institute, or project, required relatively little money, and had fantastic results. So here's something that the attorney general is only finding out, and we, through discussion and budget-making and re-emergence of the Secretary-General in the Assembly, can encourage. So the Attorney General's Office says, it recommends the Ministry of Social Policy to draw up a draft amending and supplementing the Social Care Act, which would increase the amount of guaranteed minimum benefits for single people who are terribly difficult to live. And in the end, the number of complaints from Croatian defenders and members of their families has increased, and I am particularly concerned. Last year and in 2012, 27, now in 2013 142. It's something that's very indicative. So, it states here that the defence complaints were also made public, public publication of the register of Croatian defenders, as well as the resolution of the status, and then I suggest that the statement of the Croatian Defence Ministry be requested. And ultimately unacceptable and discriminatory expression in public space. It's the first time there's ever been a commercial. Of course, the behavior in the stadiums can only always be observed, but nothing in particular happens because heroes of the day remain heroes of the day despite proscration and despite inappropriate behavior. And finally, once again, we accept the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81404	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Igor Coleman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81405	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. A esteemed colleague, Kosor, said in her statement one sentence that I needed to react to, and the sentence reads, "Protect human rights never enough." And it seems to me that it's actually a key sentence at all when we talk about human rights, about the report that is here today, but also about the laws that we are constantly and regularly considering and passing in this House. Not just to protect human rights never enough, but to protect human rights can never and must never stop. Because it may seem to us today that we have reached some level, that something acquired rights come tomorrow morning, some new circumstances, some economic crisis, some radical political option, and everything that seemed to us must have suddenly turned to dust. So we can never stop fighting. And the other thing I want to say about that is that human rights and civil rights are not and can't be the rights of some others. It's often a mistake we make ourselves and allow it to be done. Human and civil rights are the rights of all of us. And only society and state that is able to guarantee everyone equally at the level of principle the protection of human and civil rights can indeed have both society and the state of human and civil rights. It's our rights, our children's rights and whatever rights we think we're fighting for our own rights and our children's rights, even then, especially if we think we're part of some majority and it's none of our business. And a short while, if I may, about Freedom House. Of course it's good that we're critical of ourselves and we always have to strive for better, but we have to be realistic and say some things anyway in Serbia. We had two days ago gay come to Zagreb, we had 10 days ago in Split. People walk free with children, they barely have any more barricades, there's barely any more police. Serbia is a country that has never experienced this before because of the extreme resistance and violence that is thus manifested, so in this sense we in Croatia, regardless of the report, can be proud and such things should be highlighted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81406	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81407	Thank you very much. I agree with you. I'm going to start with this last one, so from the Freedom House review, but I agree completely that in some segments, in the end, we are a member of the European Union, we have done some work in this sense, but this is exactly not what we can do. So we have done and we have become a member, 28 members of the European Union and the job is done. No, the job's just getting started. Not only is human rights never, in the protection of human rights never to get tired, never too many, never enough of them, and we must never stop keeping an eye on each other so that a glove doesn't open up again. Accordingly, here I remember those songs of a German poet, I will not be able to interpret, of course, but you are in that context speaking. So you keep an eye on other people's rights. A loud and clear stand when someone's human right is threatened, because if we keep quiet as the song says, it's going to be my turn one day, but then no one will be able to say anything and no one will ever be able to get up again.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81408	Dear Representative Drazen Djurovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81409	Thank you. You mentioned a months-long stalemate of a referendum initiative for which more than 650,000 signatures were collected for which there is no real institutional explanation and I would agree with you that the time is no matter who has any position on this initiative, and what attitude they have in their own right to make it their turn to actually respect the legal and constitutional procedures and that, in accordance with this procedure, this initiative is actually implemented in the way that the law and the Constitution are foreseen. You also mentioned the failures or in the absence of constitutional changes precisely to the referendum initiatives that took place, the referendum initiatives that were under way and the referendum initiatives that were in preparation as well as the development of certain judicial events showed that it was a good decision for those who did not at some point support these constitutional changes. And this initiative for constitutional changes, and I think at this point, the government that practically falls apart and the ruling majority that is very unstable and has no support for the people of their constitutional initiative or the constitutional initiative of the president of the state that prepares them several months before the elections cannot and no longer have room to happen at least during the term of office of this government. That's my opinion on these constitutional initiatives. And when it comes to the work or not of the Croatian Parliament in 8 months, it should be seen how many European parliaments work in 8 months. I would agree with you that perhaps this should be the case, but it was one of the last things that was actually in this constitutional initiative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81410	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81411	Thank you very much. So, about a referendum still counting votes. We mentioned many that just now a report by the attorney general mentions the deaf institution, state institutions. So if the Parliament continues this way, and we have to hit the pace of government or now voter numbers, then we will be the ones who deafen ourselves from some of the more than 600,000 signatures. So we have to give the citizens an answer. So I repeat again no matter what our point of view is, I think in this case we have very, very firm arguments to act as Parliament in accordance with Article 95. The Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court and to ask the Constitutional Court for an opinion on whether the matter required for a referendum is in accordance with the Constitution or not in accordance with the Constitution. And we have to do it as soon as possible. And as far as constitutional changes are concerned, my opinion is that constitutional changes are necessary, we have continued to leave this referendum area completely unsettled. And one thing we'd have to agree on, which is that the human rights that we're all talking about right now and protecting human rights can't be a matter of referendum. That is what the Constitution clearly says, so I think constitutional changes are still necessary. We left it open like... We, of course, can also have a referendum in the next periods, or an incentive to collect signatures for a referendum that would require, for example, the introduction of the death penalty into Croatian laws. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Do you think there's a chance to raise enough votes for that? Therefore, we all need to talk seriously about this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81412	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is up to the club Independent List and MPs Damir Cain and Shandor Juhas. The first one is Shandor Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81413	My dear President, dear fellow Members, I come from minority ranks and this minority problem is a little bit quiet, and that's exactly what I'm going to say. For starters, I support this full and meaningful report, and I am glad that the first time has been dealt with and the problems of national minorities. The rights and freedoms of members of national minorities we know are guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and the obligation to protect the rights of national minorities stems from... Conventions for the Protection of National Minorities of the Council of Europe, which the Republic of Croatia adopted in 1998, and on this basis the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities was adopted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This report is the following, says the Republic of Croatia, to ensure the exercise of special rights and freedoms of members of national minorities who enjoy individually or together with other persons, and then to list the use of names and last names, obtaining an identity card, serving with their own language and letter in private and in public use and in official use. Then he says representation in representative and judicial bodies and says protection against any activity that threatens or threatens their survival, the exercise of rights and freedoms. It is written in the report, and I say further, in order for these rights and freedoms to be realised and enjoyed and to be committed by the Republic of Croatia, it must often be requested, or you must be referred to it. And that's where the basic problem is now, or there's a problem. How do you ask someone for something and he doesn't know the language you speak? In the Hungarian national minority in the Republic of Croatia, there are many more members who have difficulty serving Croatian. It is about the indigenous population who has always lived in Baranja and whose ranks were regularly recruited by officials who knew both Hungarian and Croatian among other things. Unfortunately, today is not the case. The Hungarian language is very different from the Croatian language and it is hard for someone who does not know the Croatian language to be able to exercise its rights. At the end of 2011, the government adopted a Plan for the admission of members of national minorities to the state service of state administration for the period 2011-2014. The aim of this plan was to establish realistic opportunities for increasing the number of members of national minorities in state administration bodies from 2011 to 2014 in order to achieve their representation of 5.5% of the total number of employees in those bodies. According to the Ministry of Administration, the process of representation of members of national minorities in state administration bodies on 31 December 2013 is still at 3.5%, similar to the 2011 representation. Which means there aren't any major shifts. And most likely there will be no movement from the recommendations of this report. In point 4, it is recommended that the Ministry of Administration prepare a Plan for the admission of members of national minorities for the following period in case of failure of representation from 5.5% in the period 2011 to 2014. This means that part of the population of the Hungarian national minority will continue to be made it more difficult to communicate with most of the employees working in state administration bodies and will be made it difficult for them to exercise their rights. Or that they won't be able to live with their rights. That is why I believe that the process of joining members of national minorities must be accelerated, at least in the area where minorities live in greater numbers. Furthermore, I believe that this is not only a question of the exercise of rights but it can also be asked in another context. Those crossing the border towards the Republic of Hungary regularly meet with police officers at the Croatian-speaking border. We know that in Hungary too, living members of the Croatian minority there, and they have in some way strengthened the reception of those services that work at the border to create, if anything else, a more beautiful picture of those who come from the territory of Croatia because that way they welcome them immediately means with the language they speak. I think it is also applicable to us and to provide a far nicer picture if those officers who work there would welcome Hungarian business people or tourists who are already coming to us, in their native language, and perhaps also avoid the practice of Hungarian policemen serving along the Adriatic Sea coast, Zadar, Split, Rijeka and be there to be our Hungarian-language police officers. So, then, it's not just about maybe just exercising the right, so let's say what the competition is going to look like, etc. but I think that's one thing to say about civilization's achievement. And there's something else I'd like to ask Mrs. Attorney General, I'm interested in her opinion on education discrimination. In my opinion, the situation currently taking place in Croatia, which is related to the purchase of textbooks in certain cities for students attending primary and secondary schools, puts those students whose cities are unable to provide free textbooks. I think maybe we should talk about that too. Here you go, buddy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81414	I'll call my colleague Damir Cain, part two.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81415	Your Honor, Your Honor, Madam Representative. Yes, we've heard that 30 people work at the attorney general's office, that their budget is $9.1 million. Here to pull the parallel, the office of the President of the Republic of 43 million kuna, Parliament 140 million kuna, Government 240 million kuna, a few days ago we discussed the Office of Statistics where over 500 people work, has a budget of 85 million kuna. And statistics in Croatia deal with institutions of over 2,000 people. What's interesting is this number of items everyone mentions in areas that have increased from 1849 to 3021. Now, whether the opportunities in this country have worsened or the office is now more believed or the citizens have freed themselves from some fear, and more are reporting to the office about it another time. The complaint was less about the right to rebuild from 25 to 23, and the interesting work of the judiciary from 416 2012, to 366 2013. What we all know, the Public Attorney's office is that last address after our citizens lose confidence in the institutions. The poor girl, who is a proverb, appears to say, "And to God heavily," while others know how to take care of themselves. We had a debate last week, for example. about special state care, it's about apartments, houses that are new tenants, not owners, meaning the new tenants they invested in, and now they're clearly looking for their property, and other money for the necessary and useful costs. However, when we talk about this report, it is simply there that the problem of Croatia is primarily the existing, social one that then generates and everything else. Let me just say that the number of people on welfare since 2009 has increased by 26% or 93 754 ma 117 941. The help for a single and single parent in Croatia is 800 kuna per month, for an adult member of the 480 family, for a child 320 kuna. The total amount shall not exceed 3 thousand kuna. Of 118 social aid recipients, as many as 35% are children or young people at regular schooling. Of the remaining number of adults, 72% make up a working person. So that's the fundamental problem of the Croatian moment today. We have the meaning of these 320 thousand unemployed, about 1 500 thousand total employees, you will all agree that the most privileged job in Croatia is the job in the upgrade, or on the budget, in public services. In the season, the number of unemployed will fall to 300,000, and in winter will likely rise again to 380,000. The small sector has collapsed, and other than monopolies many are black written in the country. And that's why the biggest problem I see is nepotism, that only with a membership card can get to work. I'm talking business in some department, utility, public service. It became almost so public that it simply offends a man. The same thing is with public procurement for getting jobs. Public competitions, I dare say, can hang a cat on a tail, but then it destroys the country's economy and creates such divisions in society that are increasingly polarizing the country as a whole. At local levels, a problem is created or the problem is raised, and I think it's discrimination a couple of exellences where local self-government buys, rents media space to millions of public kunas who then lead clearly their policy and instead of being independent, I talk about the media, turns these media into party bulletins, and it wouldn't be any problem for individuals to finance it with their money, but they don't do it but they do it with the public. If it lasts four years, eight years, or I don't know how many mandates, then it becomes a serious problem. Here, in Istria, a case of the voice of Istria's store that I guess stops working tomorrow. 300 people have simply come to the question of survival, i.e. existence. I know all the shops are in bananas, but individuals finance the media, but this poor thing that works, creates, is it them or those individuals who don't care. What I welcome is a good or accurate, honest view of the Cyrillic referendum, and you have written here among other things that during 2013 there has been an initiative by a group of citizens to call a referendum that would raise the threshold for achieving the right to the equal service use of language and letter minorities, so that minority members must make up half of the total population and then state that it is... a framework convention for the protection of national minorities, etc., etc. I repeat what everyone has said, it is unacceptable to reduce the rights of national minorities. The game with the Cyrillic, in Vukovar, is a message to the Italians in Istria, Rijeka, Hungarians, I don't know, Czechs in Daruvar, etc. It doesn't matter how they are and how they want to go through these local elections yesterday, but that question of bilingualism or bilingualism as one of our bishops said, it's not, I dare say, not even in Tudjman's time, it's being set up today, and I can't understand why. The only answer is, I know, some political thresholds or some political benefit. But then this leads to discrimination against some groups, especially, clearly, Serbs, or Roma. The return of 77,000 269 individuals or so we have these requests for return. We also have a huge problem here, a problem that needs to be solved, but in this material situation it will be almost impossible or extremely difficult. We have situations when we talk about these tenant rights that people are kicked out of their apartments, not once I'm in Pula, there in the early '90s sitting on the stairs that it wouldn't happen to some or former soldiers, etc., and it's just a serious problem today. He's civilized, existential, and we just have to stop it. We support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81416	Thank you. Thank you very much. We are going to the replica of the respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81417	Thank you. A fellow Juhas who is no longer present in the assembly has been troubled by the issue of Hungarians living for generations in the Republic of Croatia, and according to him, they do not know Croatian. I will remind you that in most European countries, in order to become a citizen of that state, you should be the language of that country where you want to be a citizen, so I think it is really now to talk about the problem of people living for generations, and they don't know the language of the state where they belong. In the Ombudsman's report, as in public... in the Republic of Croatia is constantly troubled and very often a sign of equality is put between the problems of national minorities and the problem of human rights, calling for different declarations, and the problem of human rights is not equal to the problem of national minorities, so the problem of national minorities is just one small segment of the problem of human rights. I will now remind you of Article 55. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, therefore, which states in paragraph 1 that each employee has the right to earn a living free and worthy of his or her family. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the The Croatian Constitution? For a large number of Croatian citizens, for those 70 thousand who work and do not receive wages, for those 312 thousand who are under the covers, it is not. You have such articles of the Croatian Constitution as much as you want where we fall as a state and... fundamental human rights of your citizens to work, that they can receive a solid salary and live solidly from that salary. And that is, in my opinion, the queen and the central problem, but it is easier of course to catch the problems of some small groups, to insist on it rather than actually stand in defense of the fundamental problems that affect most Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81418	Thank you very much. There is no representative of the Juhas, so there is no reply to the replica. The second replica of the respected representative Goran Maric, Damir Kajin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81419	Thank you very much. My colleague Caine, you said that most discrimination stems from existential conditions. Well, it is true, the existence is most important and here it is visible from this report that working relationships are the most common form of human rights endangerment and discrimination. Well, page 11 says, reports, that it's not a rare case, on the contrary, that it's a common case of public advertising where it's written that they're looking for young and attractive waitresses. And what is this rather than an example of discrimination? But it's only on the recommendation, no one is sanctioned for that, but where the greater human right is threatened than if the right to warmth, the right to food, the right to home, the right to human dignity, to life, the right to work, everything. Imagine so much... the contracts have changed, and where is the protection of human rights? So threatened by the existence of only the other side's relationship. So if anyone ever tried anything to change their status on HEP or Elektra, change ownership, so they'll testify to all the problems, so it takes three months to change ownership. No one answers their phones when you call Elektra, 150 times the bell just hangs up, you can't change the owner and deliver the contract, they don't react at all as if they're not concerned at all. Public competitions are farces, that's what you said. So the best indicator is that that director the minister will appoint after the competition has already reported to the company and I will be the director, please show me where I will sit, and the competition is not even announced. It happened a year and a half ago, if you remember. And such farces are full of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81420	Thank you very much, dear colleague Maric. The reply to the replica Damir Cain, the esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81421	That I could even relate to what Mr. Maric was saying. As for the minority, tomorrow may concern us who may feel most of us, we are some minority everywhere I want to say. We may not be national in Croatia if we are members of the Croatian people but the minority are not Serbs national, Italians who thus wish to declare themselves outcasts, Bosniaks etc. We are also a minority and as a political minority if we are in opposition, we are a minority of the financial minority if we cannot allow ourselves or our own what someone with average income can afford, the minority is unemployed, sick, old or what Mr. Maric said when in these public competitions, by saying almost beautiful icons who will be employed, whether it must be young, whether it must be nice, whether it must be thin or not. And because you say? It's simple to speak, speak loudly, fight so that no one can be a minority, that no one can be challenged. And that's exactly what's happening to other people today, and tomorrow it might happen to us. And so in that Bible if you don't want something to yourself, don't do it to the other person. And someone well said about the pay phone, minority rights are defended by the Constitution, but the referendum must in no way limit the constitutional rights of any citizen. All in all, if we do not want to be the majority of us the next day because of our opinion, attitude, behavior to be a minority, then we really need to respect the right of expression of every citizen of the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81422	Thank you very much. Club of HSU in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Željko Šemper.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81423	Thank you, Mr. President. The esteemed attorney general, co-workers and colleagues. In front of us is the 2013 Ombudsman's 2013 report marked by her appointment, and for her office there has been a significant increase in complaints against citizens that says enough that we are standing with the rights of our citizens and the attitude of the institution towards them. Worst when citizens because of their problems do not know how to protect their rights, to whom they should address for help, from whom they can receive legal advice. The report shows that the biggest problems in the area of social security, employee rights, and many citizens have been exposed to various tasks as a result of the economic crisis and the difficult social situation. The fact is that we have relatively good laws but their implementation is not good, so citizens cannot exercise their rights. This applies in particular to the request of citizens to certain national authorities where all the deadlines for the enforcement of those requirements are not answered or exceeded, but vice versa, citizens shall not exceed the deadlines set because they immediately follow the penalties. In my debate on behalf of the HSU Club, I will stay the most in areas relating to pensioners and elderly people, social care and family protection and the problem of the performance. Since the beginning of our country's creation as a result of wrong privatisation, war destruction and job loss, the pension system has suffered major damage, but it has been one of the significant factors of social security. The peace system becomes a social shocker, any problem being solved by going to retirement. Unfavourable economic movements and demographic problems, changes to a number of pension insurance regulations for years and in 2013 have resulted in complaints from citizens or pensioners. And there's one problem with resolving party demands within the legal deadline, and one of the biggest problems is our citizens who have achieved part-time in one of the former SFRY's republics. Although Croatia through HZMO has signed agreements on international co-operation with foreign pension insurance holders, our pensioners have major problems. On the Committee on Labour and Pensions, the Ombudsman pointed out good co-operation with HZMO, which is trying to solve these identified problems. HSU often spoke to us when they exhausted all opportunities and could not solve their problems. So we learned that pensions from Republika Srpska to pensioners living in Croatia are regularly late for 15 days, causing them new problems with regular directorial payments or another example when pension insurance in Republika Srpska does not recognise the medical documentation of Croatian health institutions in the pursuit of disability pensions. In this direction, the MP's recommendation to HZMO was made to amend inter-state agreements, making these citizens better informed and improving international cooperation with competent institutions in the countries of the region with regard to the achievement of pension rights. One of the major problems that has been identified and the Ombudsman is the realisation of state support for older people, so-called a social pension that has been planned for years and has been delayed for older people over 65 years of life who have not achieved a pension and cannot meet the basic needs of life. The measure is now almost inconclusive due to the severe economic crisis, but unfortunately this has not been adequately resolved by the reformed social care system. Moreover, such older and fully incompetent persons are determined by a lower amount of the minimum compensation guaranteed for both single and family member compared to the previous amount of maintenance aid. The particularly vulnerable group are older people who are dependent on helping others and cannot provide the necessary support in the house. Such persons should be allowed to stay in their own home and those who cannot allow them to stay in institutions for older and powerless with equal quality and service price. Many pensioners who thus cannot solve their problems resort to the conclusion of a life-long or life-long restraint contract where they are expected by various traps of those who are only lurking to benefit from the ignorance and ignorance of older people and to acquire their property. In the area of social care, the Ombudsman’s Office pointed to inaccessible low amounts of social assistance, support for singles, as well as allowances for assistance and care. There, as she says, should distinguish compensation for a fully incompetent person from a working person. Of course, a better and recommended solution is limited by budgetary means but should be taken into account to address those groups that are in the most unfavourable position, which are certainly persons who are completely incompetent to work and without any means to live. It is the duty of our social state and the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth. There is also a problem with social housing, which has not been systematically arranged so far, which seems to have obviously given up. These problems are even greater in local self-government units which do not have enough resources to pay for such housing costs to socially endangered citizens who meet the prescribed conditions to exercise the right to such assistance. In the last years of the crisis, and thus in 2013 the citizens' problems have been the performances that are very unpleasant for all those who are unable to meet their basic existential needs on a regular basis. According to the size of the problem and the number of executions, the number of complaints received since 119 is too small. Citizens have the most objections to the fact that they have not been informed at all about the initiation of the executive procedure, so who has not been able to defend and disprove the executive request and has not been given a deadline to settle the debt. They only found out about it when the money was removed from the account or it was already blocked. The enforcement is a legal but necessary measure to protect the rights of creditors as well as a picture of the economic situation of the state and its citizens, which points to their difficult financial and social situation where citizens do not have enough means to settle even basic directors such as gas, electricity, HRT fees and the like. The worst were those who signed a public note book that they agreed to do the full amount of retirement and thus ran out of any means to live. This did not even help them to open a protective account because such a document was stronger than the executive law itself. In solving this problem, the Croatian Party of Retireds gave its pain when the Ministry of Finance developed a rule no longer possible to carry out more than one-third of the pension after the representative issue of the HSU club. In the case of the problem of enforcement, it should also be pointed out that the loan and the over-indebted commitments made to over-indebted part of the citizens do not count on being left without a job during this crisis period. As a result, a part of our citizens came into trouble with the performance due to job losses and were unable to repay loans and regular directors. It's a good thing the Attorney General's Office recognized the problem of enforcement, too, so he organised a public hearing and took part in making amendments to the Executive Act. This report shows how the office worked under limited spatial and financial conditions. As a result, the office should ensure adequate material and personnel conditions for work in order to even better protect human rights. One of the problems is the lack of regional offices that does not give citizens equal opportunities to use the services of the Ombudsman, because of the 57% of all complaints from the Republic of Croatia is from central Croatia including Zagreb. Therefore, in order for office services to be available to a larger number of citizens, more funding is needed than those spent in 2013. The Croatian Retired Party Club will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81424	Thank you very much. You have one replica of the respected representative of Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81425	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, you mentioned the problems of local self-government units in solving the growing, growing social problems, the growing number of users. Of course, each unit of local self-government, in accordance with its capabilities, solves these problems, and some can be a little bit more affected, some in a bit smaller. But one thing is the other, every honor to the units and how they manage, but the bigger problem is the increasing number of needs, the growing number of seekers in the circumstances when the prices are gone, the cost of life is immeasurable. And mostly in rural areas where many farmers are, we know what happened to them and what they're in. Under these circumstances and supplies that they have lost, it certainly makes it more difficult for them. And that's the problem of people who are looking for such help, and that's why it is necessary to especially sensitize the public to understand the problems in rural areas that are in immense difficulties and unfortunately, every day, there is an increasing number of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81426	Thank you very much, no answer. We are going to the debate of the Croatian Democratic Community Club in the Croatian Parliament. The honourable representative, Ante Babic, will present.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81427	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed attorneys, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, this is the first report by our public defender after her appointment in February 2013, and then the Office of the Ombudsman of the People's Republic of Slovenia completed with the selection of her deputies in mid-year as I recall in July. In addition to the appointment of the Advocate General and her deputies in 2013 the Rules of Procedure, the Internal Order Rules of Procedure, as well as the Strategic Plan for 2014 and 2016 were adopted. This report shall be accompanied by the information referred to in Article 16(1). The Law on the Ombudsman contains information on the performance of the tasks of the national preventive mechanism, as well as a report on the occurrences of discrimination in 2013, thus united. According to the information presented by the attorney general, 3021 new cases were opened during 2013, which we heard in the Ombudsman's Office, which is a 63% increase compared to 2012. The Ombudsman states, and this is seen from the table attached, that such a significant increase in the case has been particularly affected by the increase in the number of cases concerning the rights of defenders, finances, including performances, ownership and other real rights and housing relations, the conduct of police officers, health, construction, spatial arrangements, housing and others. If it is to be judged by an increase in the number of open cases in the Ombudsman's Office, there has been a significant deterioration in human rights in those areas during 2013. In addition, the Ombudsman pointed out as a special and interesting fact that during 2013, the office received 150 complaints from abroad, which primarily concern the endangerment of the human rights of Croatian citizens residing outside the Republic of Croatia and whose amendments to the Law on residence threatened their fundamental human rights. As already mentioned by Croatian citizens outside the Republic of Croatia, it is also necessary to highlight the law that regulates their previous registration in the exercise of their active voting rights, which brings them into a discriminatory position in relation to Croatian voters who have residence in the Republic of Croatia. In view of the fact that such legal decisions are at stake in the threat of constitutional and legal rights of a greater degree and importance, the question arises why the Advocate General did not exercise its right as set out in Article 16(2). The Law on the Ombudsman to submit a special report to the Croatian Parliament. I remind you that according to Article 45. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia all Croatian citizens of 18 years of age have a general and equal voting right in the elections for the Croatian Parliament, the President of the Republic of Croatia and the European Parliament in the decision-making process in the state referendum in accordance with the law. The purpose and purpose of the laws that allow the exercise of general and equal electoral rights should be such as to enable Croatian citizens to benefit from this constitutional right to the fullest extent possible, rather than the fact that legal solutions are such that Croatian citizens outside the Republic of Croatia are almost prevented from using that constitutional right. Namely, Croatian citizens outside the Republic of Croatia must be registered in order to exercise their right to vote and can vote at the polls in diplomatic and consular representations after the previous registration has been carried out. As a result, it is no wonder that such legal obstacles to the exercise of electoral rights can only be overcome by a minimal number of Croatian citizens, and in the past elections for the European Parliament, this right has been used by some 5,000 Croatian citizens. I would also remind here that the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament called on the Ombudsman to submit a special report on the respect for fundamental human rights and the freedom of parents in the procedure of introducing health education in primary and secondary schools. However, the Ombudsman did not deliver a special report but waited for the Constitutional Court’s decision of 22 May 2013 to assess that the procedure for the adoption of the health care curricula was not in accordance with Article 63. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. assessed that in the process of adopting a health care curricula, not fully respecting the fundamental rights of parents guaranteed by that constitutional provision. The Constitutional Court’s decision on the same issue in which a special report was called by the Ombudsman in the opinion of the Ombudsman’s mother-in-law has ceased the reasons for submitting a special report by the Advocate General. As I expressed my views on the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, I also today believe that the Ombudsman should have submitted a special report to the Croatian Parliament on the threat of the constitutional and legal rights of parents when introducing the health education curricula in primary and secondary schools. Otherwise, if we are to await the possible launch of procedures for the assessment of compliance with the Constitution, but also decisions of the Constitutional Court, the issue of the purpose of the existence of the Ombudsman as the authority of the Croatian Parliament for the promotion and protection of human rights and freedoms established by the Constitution, laws and international legal acts and human rights and freedoms adopted and accepted by the Republic of Croatia will be raised. In addition to the complaints of certain persons, the Ombudsman is also initiating proceedings on his own initiative and on the basis of knowledge and media, which allows it also the Law on the Ombudsman. I do not need to remind even that many parents and numerous associations, as some media have pointed out, and some representatives in the Croatian Parliament, are in the process of introducing a curricula of health education in primary and secondary schools, in fact, a mass violation of the Constitution and international conventions of guaranteed parents' rights. A particular problem pointed out by the Advocate General is the lack of a timely response by the relevant authorities to the hearings of the Advocate General. The Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, Ministry of Administration, Ministry of Regional Development and European Funds, Ministry of Finance, Tax Administration, and the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance are particularly prominent in their lack of urgency. It is mainly about the authorities of the state administration who have been unsupervised in delivering their answers to the Office of the Public Prosecutor, so the question arises what the Government of the Republic of Croatia does or intends to make the cooperation of those bodies with the Office of the Advocate General improves. The long-term and ineffectiveness of procedures both administrative bodies and the judiciary result in violations of the rights of citizens resulting in an increasing number of citizens addressing international institutions, particularly the European Court of Human Rights, whose judgments require significant resources from the state budget to be allocated to damaged citizens. Today we heard it here, and that means that this is an unorganized bureaucratic government that is actually working on the damage of its citizens. For the first time, according to a part of the human rights complex, the Ombudsman points out that during 2013, activities in the exercise of the rights of members of national minorities in the field of employment in the bodies of the state administration have not resulted in the desired effects, and recommends that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Administration prepare a plan for the admission of members of national minorities, but to provide them with financial resources. In view of the fact of employment in the authorities of the state administration, I am asking the attorney general and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities which I am holding that the purpose of the ban on employment should be considered when it comes to members of national minorities, and whether this actually means preparing special invitations to join the national service for members of individual national minorities. That's what I was saying today. I'm actually interested in what and how this competition would look like that would actually be discriminatory compared to most of them. According to a 2013 police prosecutor's report, a significant number of complaints were made by citizens to the occupier in connection with police officers' behaviour compared to the previous year. The complaints mainly referred to the unprofessional and unethical behaviour of police officers towards citizens of failures to act and overstep in the exercise of power, and impartiality in determining the factual situation. I must mention this occasion the most obvious example of overstepping in the exercise of power and bias in determining the facts of the police when editing a police officer towards Croatian defender Darko Pajičić on the occasion of preventing a bilingual panel from being removed from a state-run institution in Vukovar. As far as I'm aware, the attorney general has actually not responded to this drastic case of overpowering a police officer. It would be interesting to know if, in this particular case, you have actually requested a report from the Ministry of the Interior. While mentioning the MUP, it should also be mentioned that after the change in the internal structure of the MUP, the leaders of the internal establishment units found in these jobs are not allocated according to the rules and regulations of the established civil servants, but for these jobs, internal ads are called for filling job openings. It has been shown in a mass in an illegal way to implement internal advertisements that have failed to participate in the former leaders of internal units, and despite their professional abilities and acquired experience, they have been rejected even when they have passed the knowledge check as the only successful one. We are witnessing that, recently, in the case of illegal employment of the MUP, a powerful verdict of the Administrative Court has been passed which brings one of these officials back to his post. There will be a lot of such cases, and there will also be compensation for damages to officials who have been illegally removed from their duties, which will represent a significant financial expenditure on the state budget. Special interventions and advertising of the Ombudsman's mother-in-law were also expected in the exercise of the right to work and to point out a large number of unemployed, which also poses a massive threat to human rights to work and dignity of life. There is also a massive violation of human rights, to health care, given the fact that the current government's wrong health policy has significantly increased waiting lists for health checks and medical procedures. The attorney general didn't have the need to point out that either. In its report, the Ombudsman refers to the speech of public figures in the media and hate speech, and brings several examples that illustrate the unequivocally resulting in hate speech being approached in a selective way. The role of the media in the field of public speech and according to the Ombudsman, has a significant role to play in the formation of public opinion. The Law on Electronic Media prohibits the promotion and spread of hate and discrimination, the spread of anti-Semitism and xenophobia, the idea of fascist ideas, nationalist, communist and other regimes. In this case, the Ombudsman does not, in any word, refer to the role of journalists and their role that, on the basis of facts, views and opinions themselves, formulate their opinions under the law is not allowed to interfere with the form of news and commentary reports. The law on HRT and the Ethics Code of Croatian Radio Television shows that it is miles away. When it comes to the hate speech against our media, and also the position of the attorney general, it turns out that hate speech is exclusively a property of right-wing groups, the labeling of non-sanitary people as an avet of the past, reactionaries, conservatives, firefighters, nationalists, chauvinists so easily pronounced as soon as someone troubles the position of Croats. At the end of selective justice, which we have heard today from some colleagues worse than any injustice. When we talk about human rights, we should point out that they are neither red nor blue, but are clearly written both in the Croatian Constitution and in the international acts adopted by the Croatian State, and the attorney general had to approach them impartially under the Law on the Ombudsman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81428	Thank you, too. Let's go to the replicas. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81429	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Babić, and you have well reminded the specific cases in your debate, have substrated everything that has actually been in the past period and subject to the work of the attorney general. Let's just remember the hysteria of one in front of that referendum that was conducted by the Family Association and all the statements in the press, in the media or in electronic or written, who didn't participate. So, from members of the government, from ministers, I don't know who everything's not exactly in the opposite sense of the "In the Name of the Family" initiative. The answer of the people was clear, I won't talk about it. But that no one, not even the attorney general, reacts to such truly monstrous accusations by the people who represented that idea, that's terrible. Secondly, when we talk about Pajcic, so Mr. Pajcic, who, according to Minister Ostojic's statement, ruled out brandy, was said to have fallen on another occasion, so he severely injured his head five, six times and hit his head against concrete, so he got such a injury, I guess, it's really symptomatic that as a serious injury, he didn't produce any effect on the attorney general's staff or on some of the others who would still be in charge of these things. And as a third point I wanted to say, the consequences of the entry into force of the Law on residence relating to the active right of vote, or the right to vote, produced that in elections where Croats outside Croatia have the right, or Croatian citizens outside Croatia, the right to vote is a drastically reduced number of voters. It's a drastic reduction, from a couple hundred to a couple thousand, so 5,000.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81430	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81431	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Grubisic, of course, can agree with everything you've said and perhaps I can complete some more things that are very important. They are also important for the staff attorney's institution, and in fact, it is about the fact that the Attorney General is the attorney general of the Croatian Parliament and that it is his duty under the Law on the Ombudsman of the People's Republic of Croatia to do so himself and I said it would be interesting to see if the Ombudsman requested a special report from the Ministry of the Interior regarding the case. However, what you said about Croats outside Croatia and about previous registration is actually discriminatory, in that logic I do not see why Croatians living in Croatia should not actually register. It is known why it was done and we were then and we spoke to the Minister of Administration and we warned about such things which are definitely not good and what is a bad message for Croats outside of Croatia and in fact we ourselves are trying in the Croatian Parliament to make it impossible for them to make their lives more complicated and in this way related to active registration. And you saw, in fact, the result itself and in these elections for representatives in the European Parliament how many Croats outside Croatia actually participated in this extremely important process for the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81432	Dear Representative Drazen Djurovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81433	Oh, thank you. A colleague of Babić you have very well presented a whole series of examples from which it is visible how the female attorney general has worked, performed and where it has actually shown that it does not defend the general values of Croatian society, Croatian people, Croatian culture, Croatian... so if you want the Croatian Constitution, it is in its work that very tends to defend the views of its own worldview, its own political commitment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But she is not a representative in the Croatian Parliament that it is necessary to defend her political commitment or her political group and those who have chosen her should actually defend some common values, and in this we have not noticed her, but we have always noticed her at the time when a certain system of values was to be defended, a certain group. So what was worth something in her system. And the other thing that didn't, or what was on the other side, just kept a close eye on it, that would go away, that's not in the report, and that's clearly obvious. Therefore, I think that we can talk a little more openly about the work of the attorney general now and about the way she is and what she has actually selectively publicly stepped forward and what she has stood for, and what she has been faring for. And when we're talking about fundamental values that the attorney general said about 312 thousand people who are under wraps, in blockades, about salaries in Croatia, pensions, executions, what Mr. Shemper said? And about a whole series of problems affecting Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81434	Replicate response, respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81435	Dear colleague Djurovic, you're right. We warned about this and if you followed the report I did not even respond to my colleague Grubisic, it was also about the referendum "In the Name of the Family", then I might have said that even the attorney general in that case would have actually acted as an activist of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which was obvious and what was evident. However, it must not be forgotten that when spoken, and of course it is good and to improve and work on the rights of national minorities we talk a little bit about human rights, which is actually the elemental right to work and to a dignified life and precisely because of what you have been saying and that is the right to work. And there, in fact, was supposed to be a public defender not only through the media that some colleagues here today were saying but also by her own initiative, and that possibility also allows the Law on the Public Attorney's Office to talk about such things and in fact to point out that the government is inadmissible to so many unemployed people, which in such a way directly creates certain deviations in society that we all witness.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81436	Honorable representative Drazenko Pandek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81437	Here's a thank you. In fact, I was encouraged by this replica, so I'd say using the personal tragedy of Croatian defender Pajcic, so I'd say for certain political purposes. I wouldn't, I just don't believe that it isn't you, I'm familiar with the media from the Home Secretary's testimony almost all the details of the case. It therefore states that the authorities of the MUP carried out internal surveillance on the legality of the conduct of all MIP officers. So, not the political some set up there, but, therefore, professionals at the MUP conducted an examination of the legality of the conduct and all the facts were a finding, so I from the media, from the obvious minister know therefore that Mr. Pajcic unfortunately ended up in the hospital after these events in Vukovar, that he was fired from the hospital after all the examinations, that after that he had had an accident again, that he had ended up in hospital afterwards and followed all these difficult, unfortunately consequences for him. I don't believe it's familiar to you, but you're not running new facts, circumstances, allowing there to be new facts and circumstances that would point to the responsibility of MUP officers. But you're not alleging, you're saying, it's just that it's kind of like these obviouss don't exist and you're linking it all to the police. It really, really sads me not to say angry, I'm really disappointed by the use of such a difficult, tragic basic destiny for political purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81438	Replicate response, respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81439	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Pandek, it was not at all in my mind to use only the name Darko Pajčić, but I wanted to talk about the process of staff of the Ministry of the Interior. Me, too, if you'd miss half your head, I don't know if we would have talked like that. It's not good, it wasn't appropriate, it was such an act, it was a very ugly act, and the man ended up as it ended. What you're saying is that the Minister of the Interior disproved the allegations that Darko Pajcic was in an alcoholic state, we don't know that. That's why I said it would be interesting to see if the attorney general requested a special report on the case so that no one could speculate with it. And if that wasn't good, if you'd gone into the ombudsman's website. In a statement by a Croatian Football Federation leader, the attorney general said it was related to his alleged statement, beware of the alleged statement of someone who said something, it is on the pages of the Ombudsman hr. This is inadmissible for a serious institution such as the attorney general, i.e. the attorney general. And that same statement, which is the worst thing you've ever heard since, is the president of the state, which is not good. Well, in this case, it would have been good if there had been a special report and we would probably have all our doubts solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81440	Thank you, too. The Honorable representative of Đurjica twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81441	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, you spoke of police employment, of employment that we warned about in-house advertising, and how the Administrative Court has now ruled in favour of those people who have lost their jobs. Well, you see, it's simply a tradition of this kind of government because between 2001 and 2003 they simply kicked out of the military and police 10 thousand military and police officers, by the way they were Croatian defenders. And so after that these people still got the administrative dispute, the state was supposed to return over 5 million kunas, re-employ and see what was going on? He goes back to this hair and throws people on the road again. But what's more tragic about me, among other things, is that I would like to have a lawyer, in one of my replicas, self-initiatedly respond to media advances by some journalists who simply humiliate all of us here on the right by calling us different ugly names, and only in order to cover up this situation. But you see what saddens me, but saddens most, it is said that some actually go to the fact that they don't report their dead to receive pensions. The only pension of a thousand and something kuna is some's only income. And you see what's sad, they don't announce death, they're secretly going to bury them so they can get something. And the prisons the D.A. says are overcrowded, yes, but they're a deluxe category, a hotel category for those who are...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81442	Thank you, colleague. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81443	Here's to finish just, who's out of work, without a roof over the main, who's got nothing to eat, and at least there's a bed and three times a day food, unfortunately here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81444	Replica's reply, respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81445	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I was actually talking about it, and in the very situation at the Ministry of the Interior, as well as the employees who report to these competitions, and I'm just as afraid that, in fact, through these administrative disputes, the employees of the Ministry of the Interior will get them, and that this will damage the state budget that needs to be very careful. What you said was related to the actions of the Ministry of the Interior's staff, I didn't speak of it in my report, but the fact is that there are several cases that have been very exposed to the public and were, in fact, abuse of force and forced hospitalization by the Ministry of the Interior. It was therefore the most famous case of Franciskovic, where Mr. Marko Franciskovic, after 9 months of forced hospitalization, was actually released, but it must not be ignored that during this hospitalization he was actually forced to take antidepressants and that it would actually affect him and his life is a big question. And what it is, but one, one eclectant, one equative violation of human rights. And not only is the case known, it is also the case of Mrs. Kvesic from Osijek, and also the whistle Colonel who actually opposed certain things related to demining. These are not good actions and such things were certainly to be warned by the Ombudsman not only here in the Croatian Parliament but also on those committees on which we actively participate Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81446	Thank you very much. We're gonna stop now. I now announce an extension at 3:00 P.M., the esteemed representative, Jozo Radoš. It's 1:00. 20 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81447	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] It's next up to the HNS Club and the esteemed colleague Jozo Radosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81448	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney General. My colleagues and colleagues. The Ombudsman’s report, i.e. the prosecutor’s office, is in fact a crossover of the state throughout the country and society and of course, even if he is looking at things from the corner of human rights, first of all, he reveals some other dimensions and possibilities of society, state, weakness, and therefore it is difficult to observe it from... action of the current government or the current government because he is talking about issues that are deeply affecting the past and the systematic foundations of the functioning of the state and its administration and its governments, society as a whole. So I'm going to list some of these examples, indicators that talk about, of course, that it's a threat to human rights, but it's also about some fundamental possibilities, or inability of the state. So when it comes to the amounts of social assistance that are, as the report says, inaccessiblely low, about a social state for which there is neither a proper basic document, and especially... a good solution to this issue, the housing of the returnee, which speaks of 50 thousand demands, and it has been resolved over the past year by some 4 hundred, so around 1%. In fact, there are fundamental restrictions that the state has in itself and, of course, it would be better if the social aid amount were higher, but it simply is not, not only in line with the policies that the Croatian Government is implementing but unfortunately is incompatible with the inability of the state, because the state is not in a position to deal with the situation in which it was located and finds itself to provide greater social assistance. The second aspect, or second area here, is the area of education that speaks of some fundamental difficulties and the shortcomings of our education system. It speaks of low social mobility, which means that parents who do not have more than four years of education can hardly have children in territorial forms of education, which means that this social mobility, which is an important element of the power of society and its wealth, is actually very low in Croatia. Otherwise, the index measures the quality of the country and society at all, and it is particularly low in Croatia. We do not, of course, need the Ombudsman's report to establish the lack of links between education and labour markets. The painful theme of our education system is this unconnection, and we haven't been able to solve this non-connection yet by educating people who have nothing to do with what the labour market is looking for, and that's how it goes from year to year, from government to government, from decade to decade, and that fundamental finding is unfortunately still standing. It is particularly a devastating finding of the report that the first-rates are not recognized. Introducing the system, the hospital education system was actually supposed to be the main highly educated chamber, and here the report says that only 11% of the economic operators, therefore employers, recognizes the first-timer as a person with a qualification who is able to do certain jobs, which, of course, raises the fundamental meaning of our education system, i.e. the Bologna process, and the matter is even worse with professionals who are even less recognizable as being able to do some jobs and who needs Croatian employers. Some other fundamental difficulties and shortcomings in our society and our country can also be seen from the report. A colleague, Schamper, speaking on behalf of the club, said our laws were good, but they're being badly implemented which, in my deep conviction, and according to the report of the Attorney General, is not true. In Croatia there are bad laws and these bad laws are bad, that's the truth. Of course, I am not just saying this out of my practice and experience by passing laws in Croatia for more than 20 years, and I know the way in which they are passed at all levels, but this is the report by the Ombudsman, who, in a series, almost every topic, points to bad legal solutions, lack of legal solutions, lack of legal solutions, and, of course, in such circumstances, implementation cannot be good, or that the final result of this policy being processed cannot be good. Speaking of laws, i.e. sublegal acts, it is stated that the Rules of Procedures with special conditions, so a regulation that should be very current because special conditions are created by technological progress, by developing new opportunities, especially information technology, opens up new special conditions in working relationships, and our Regulation on jobs with special working conditions is from 1984, so it is over 30 years old. In the meantime, almost all sciences are out of date, and we still have the same rule on special conditions. And that's why it's deplaced, as one colleague here said, that it's a bureaucratic government because that rule and dozens or hundreds of such regulations have nothing to do with this or that government, but simply with a bad management system that all governments in the Republic of Croatia are responsible for anyway. However, what is most interesting and what is the most important theme of this report is those parts where state authorities do not do their job and do not respect the laws that have been passed. This is what is in some way the focus of this debate and what special attention should be paid to. So we're talking about the longevity of second-degree administrative items that last more than a year. The attorney general suggests it's a maximum of 60 days. With such long second-degree administrative items, you can't expect your administration to be pleased with your citizens. Not to mention the lengthy length of court proceedings. Although there has been a reduction in the case by more than 55% in the last 10 years, these procedures are still too long. And that is, of course, the weakness of the state, so in this case, its judicial system. There is a lack of respect for the provisions on the employment of minorities in state administration bodies, which is also a fundamental issue. If you have put something into the law, then you must try and implement it, and this situation has been going on for years and the attorney's report is actually not clear, despite all its recommendations whether this situation will be better, this state does not respect its own laws and its own decisions. There is also a question of non-recognition of this segment of human rights in a series of our institutions, so, for example, the Ministry of the Interior does not keep separate records of the application of the Roma residence, so there is no sensitivity despite these many of our programmes, bodies, reports, etc. Human rights, minority rights. The MUP has not yet established a record of the application of Roma and cannot answer the question of how many Roma in Croatia have requested a residence application, and that is not even some big administrative job, and certainly the lack of sensitivity in the area. And not to mention that spatial plans, illegal construction in Roma settlements are also a particular problem, and then, of course, local self-government units have no capacity, and others have no sensitivity to solve these problems. But if the state doesn't respect its own laws, then it creates a mistrust of work and the attitude of citizens to their rights. Then, of course, there will be no respect for the rights of others because the state is a bad example if it does not respect human rights in those parts and those programmes and policies that it itself has set and the decisions it has made itself. Then, of course, there's no surprise in the referendum. So if there is no sense of what is someone's right, if the state does not set a good example in this regard then, of course, everyone's rights, the rights of an individual, the rights of a minority, because there is no good practice, there is no good example of respect for human rights and respect for the laws and legality of work in one country. And that should first be done by the state alone, and then expect citizens to act equally on the basis of their actions. And therefore it is no wonder that under such circumstances there is an initiative on the reduction of minority rights that has been characterised by a HDZ colleague here, by the action of the attorney general as an act of the activist of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is absolutely deplaced. The attorney-in-law of the police, giving a clear position from the competence of his work and his office, was neither an activist of the Government of the Republic of Croatia nor a political activist. She spoke of an issue that is exclusively in her jurisdiction and in the conflict and ideas with the Framework Convention on the Protection of Minority Rights and nothing more. And to talk about that the Croatian Government's attorney-general is completely declassified, given that there are almost no areas in the Ombudsman's report in which she warns of the poor work of the authorities of the Republic of Croatia, the Government's bodies, with a number of recommendations that these bodies should work. So this report is a review of the situation in society, especially in the segment of the protection of human rights, especially in the segment of the protection of those rights that are written in Croatian laws. I think it's good to have a report like this, analyze it. It would certainly be good for someone from the government to sit here when this report is considered because this is in some way a review of the situation in society, but in some current issues and a review of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And even though the Government states in its opinion that in the work of the Parliament and its bodies, a complete government will participate, there is no one here, and government participation here would not only be polite, but not only welcome, but in the interest of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to point to some difficulties, to some restrictions, to measures that the Government has taken, as it does in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the report by the Advocate General. And that is why it would be good for it to be a broader debate about the state of society, about the state of the country, about its possibilities and certainly on the other side of the daily-political bickering that this government does not have the support of the people as it can be heard today, and the report is talking about much deeper issues and topics and opportunities to learn some good lessons from this report in all segments of politics and conduct and all of us here in the Croatian Parliament. One of the almost ridiculous aspects of law-making when we talked about the laws, and the current issue of this report is the issue of enforcement, an executive system that is extremely cruel in the Republic of Croatia. Thus, the Croatian Parliament decides not to charge warnings before the end, in order to reduce the cost of those who will be warned, but does not bring any cure and what those who send warnings including the state itself under the law adopted by the Croatian Parliament stop sending warnings. So that the state bodies, by virtue of the law passed not in the term of this government, may that be said and cease to send warnings themselves and carry out their duties without warning. So, without warning and without notice and the citizen only sees if there's anything to see that he's done, which is, of course, law enforcement. That law went after that to dissipate the one who would be fulfilled, to send him a warner. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] But here I see it's the same example, so poor functioning. In any case, this is a good document, showing good work by this important office, and the Club of Representatives of the CNS will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81449	Thank you. Your exposure caused one replica. Ante Babic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81450	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Well, you were amazed by my colleague, Radoš, by the fact that I said that the attorney general is actually an activist of the government of the Republic of Croatia, which I was saying because of the referendum. Just remember the signatures collected to call this referendum. We have here an appeal of 11 constitutional and legal experts related to this, the European Commission on the holding of a referendum, and then the Ombudsman said that she believes that the Parliament is calling for a referendum that would defuse the referendum initiative on behalf of the family by constitutionally defining marriage as a male and female community playing a democratic process, i.e. by changing the rules in an inadequate way and resulting from a democratic process which is totally unacceptable. That's what she said then. And in fact, if you remember the activities of all members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it is clear to you that the action also included the Ombudsman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81451	The replica matches the esteemed Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81452	My colleague Babic, the attorney general, is a little surprised by what you said, so I hope she has a chance to pollomise with what you said or deny the accuracy of what you said. I spoke first of all about a referendum on Cyrillic, so that a minority language could be applied which is not only a fall in the protection of minority rights in the Republic of Croatia that we do not need and nothing happens to us but is also contrary to the Framework Convention on the Protection of Minority Rights. That's what I was talking about. I think the attorney general's office is invited to speak on such matters. It does not appear there either as a political activist or as an activist of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It should also appear publicly, of course, in an appropriate way, to talk about how it is threatened by what it is tasked with keeping as a public defender. And I think it was good that it appeared in this sense unlike some other bodies of the Republic of Croatia that were responsible for constitutional changes, and when it came to constitutional changes, about the creation of the Croatian Constitution they felt they shouldn't be announced, perhaps fearing that someone, perhaps you too, would declare them the activists of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81453	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The right to speak is being given to a respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81454	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed attorney, colleagues and colleagues. So let me start here my first presentation with the qualification that we had Family Law a few days ago in the vote and there was a clear article in both the first and second readings, Article 14 if I am not mistaken that marriage is a community, a regulated community of men and women. Why am I going back to this? Because I claim that this government had no intention at all to intervene in this law and the referendum is an absolutely legitimate tool for Croatian citizens to express their views on a particular problem. However, using this tool for day-to-day policy purposes, and we have witnessed through the elections that took place after these referendums that some have used it in a way is actually inappropriate and inadmissible to me. But that's another story. Let's get back to our female attorney general. By the way, as my colleague Rados previously found out before me, this is really a cross-section of the situation, I would say the mental images of Croatian society on the one hand, and on the other hand the functioning of institutions that need to implement the law and protect their citizens. Many, therefore, are said of the general state of the country, many are given general qualifications. However, I would make my own concept of my discussion concrete in accordance with the institution, with the report of the institution we are discussing, and I would present some of the information that I consider important for the debate. First of all, let me repeat something that I said last year during the debate, and that is still when we are discussing the establishment of an attorney general that a large number of citizens still don't know what the role of the attorney general is. That's what the lawyer herself said, so the citizens simply have no one to talk to, have no one to call, and then report to the attorney general. This, on the one hand, burdens the institution of the attorney general who has already been subscribed, and on the other hand, in some ways it should not actually be her role in the whole process. Therefore, education and information on the work of the attorney general, which is to be conducted at all levels. So, first of all, the civic education that I hope will soon enter our school curricula, or should be spent since this school year, through politics and economy in high schools, in colleges. I hope that soon, in the curricula of certain institutions, we will see educational subjects, above all, which young future academic citizens are preparing to be responsible citizens. And at the end of the day, we're the very actions of politicians and, of course, the attorney general. Last year, there were a lot of objections to media inactivity above all by the attorney general, but when you read the numbers, that means the number of statements, the number of public appearances the lawyer had, we can find out that it was very active. The other thing is, unfortunately, media news like this is not a priority, which is their priorities for other news, and what the media often does, now I'm going to use a rough qualification, but they ignore such a topic. What are the particular problems I'd like to highlight? I'll be on the trail and what the attorney general said about it. First of all, there's public administration. So this is a problem that has existed for a long time, it is a problem that has not arisen in the past few years, but extends throughout the existence of the Croatian state, i.e. a long-term settlement of the case in the administrative procedure. I wish I could find out that the only administrative procedure is the one in which the solving of the case is long. Unfortunately, it's not. But there are some trends that we can judge by encouraging. First of all, it is a phenomenon that in the last 10 years, the number of cases in administrative proceedings has decreased by about 50 percent, as well as the Ministry of Justice project so-called. "E-matter." I think it will also help in the work of the attorney general himself but also the end-users to express myself in the justice system, whether it's administrative proceedings or court proceedings, so they will be able to see at any moment what stage the resolution of their case is. And thus relieve the vessels themselves of answering similar questions and who will then be able to use their time more effectively. When we talk about public administration, there is, of course, a project called "E-Citizen" that I've talked about so many times in this House. A project which should not only facilitate the availability of certain documents and their information available to citizens by the state administration or the administration of state administrations and state institutions but also inform them of the services themselves or of what the state administration and state institutions are doing for them. I also see here an opportunity for the attorney general who, through then the central or central state portal, could also inform citizens of their activities or when and how they can address the occupier and when they need it. So, they don't appear when they're giving out powerful judgments or anything, so the Attorney General's Office doesn't serve that. The second thing we have underlined is the right of members of the national minorities to first and foremost join the state service. So, of the existing 3.5% by law, we've set ourselves a 5.5% target, so about 2% less than the target. It's also not a story that's been happening since recently, but that lasts for a long time. However, my colleague Horvat thinks he mentioned this before me, so there is again a problem with information. Therefore, often even citizens, members of national minorities, are not informed of their right to take advantage of receiving into the state service, of course, if they meet the criteria set out in the national minority. There are also misunderstandings, i.e. citizens of national minorities who appear in the competition, often do not document or apply the necessary documents, and thus ultimately resulting from their non-receivement to the state service. I think that should be resolved, first and foremost, by the activity of minority representatives, but also by all the rest of us who should constantly point to this problem. And yet I'm going back to the "E-Citizen" who I think should inform all of our citizens extensively about the rights that they can consume. We are also talking about the use of the language and letter of national minorities in front of the state institutions themselves, beyond that. And we've seen a lot of problems about that, and I'm glad that's where the attorney general reacts. Because colleagues and colleagues bear in mind that the attorney general chooses this House and that it is a representative of us as parliamentary representatives and directly and Croatian peoples, and that as such, it is mandatory to protect the constitutional values, that is, the human rights of our citizens. The use of the language and letters of national minorities is such a right regulated by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. Of course, part of this problem also stems from the fact that national minorities, or national minority language speakers, are not sufficiently represented in state institutions. The other thing I want to say and I'm going to end up with is the phenomena of discrimination that we always talk about and that the attorney general herself mentioned. In fact, I'd like to underline two worrying facts that are unfortunately recycled year after year, but I think this kind of debate is exactly one catalyst to try to get to that problem. First of all, the largest number of discrimination belongs to the category of racial or ethnicity, skin color, national origin, sexual orientation, etc. When you add up discrimination in all other fields, we're almost not going to get even with this category. It speaks very much of us as about society, and it also speaks of the needs of change. And now let me because it is my professional deformity to say that this certainly education should play its part, raising our children for responsible citizens who need to accept diversity as wealth, not condemning. So certainly one process that takes place, but it's certainly worrying. And the other thing is insufficient reporting discrimination. According to all the grounds, around 60% of citizens have not reported or taken measures to protect their rights or not to report discrimination. This largely refers to the Roma national minority who has different problems and knows what their rights are, nor knows how to consume them because we also have a lot of life problems faced by this national minority, above all, and the fact that they often do not have a permanent residence, etc. And the other thing is once again insufficient guidance in the system's functioning system, insufficient information of citizens about their rights, and often mistrust in the system because they say if I even report discrimination, what I'm going to get, I'm just actually doing my best. These are things that should be done not only by the attorney general, but also by this home in its further legislative efforts. And finally, this is a comprehensive report, so as the attorney herself said, which combines a long series of years of work, sublimes them in one, although a shorter form, even though I have read this expanded report, which gives a very nice cross-section as we are and what we need to work on to ensure that human rights are respected in the future. Therefore, this report should certainly be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81455	Thank you. It is up to the dear colleague Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81456	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, Attorney General, here's something I want to say about this 2013 report. So by reading this report, I come to the conclusion and those famous sayings, "Sad or care mys to another," because how else to interpret this, and that other one is always the attorney general. For everything that's been missed by the executive authority that's been elected, it all sort of goes into the Attorney General's office and then we have our actions. Because what do you say after 2.5 years of government of the SDP? The number of items, you state here yourself, only compared to 2012. 63% higher than 2011. 100% higher, 100% higher. How is it possible in a regulated state where the executive government says from one party or government the most successful in history to increase your number of cases with the attorney general by 100% and the most successful? Either someone's talking wrong or someone's doing something wrong. For me, it's a sign that this government doesn't understand democracy, it doesn't understand the way we behave at some time in which we now live. Maybe they're still in the '90s. Because how to interpret this information that I recently read that we are democratically behind the Republic of Serbia, we are in the European Union behind the Republic of Serbia, we are going back to democracy, we are going back. Is that some kind of alarm for all of us, some kind of warning? Because it all went wrong at first. Let us only remember those first session of the Parliament when laws, strange laws, began to be passed, which began to be named by individuals, according to the individual Lex Komadin, did not pass a little time before Lex Perkovic, so that we do not list any further. We didn't care what it meant in democracy, but we're going to set up everyone we can without looking at what was going on by the law by then, so let's change them to entangle ourselves as power, so we can see where it ends up on the wrong foundations, where it all ends. And we don't think anyone notices us, that nobody sees it? And it's already started, let's just remember the election of the attorney general himself, so it was just a show for the people. They themselves propose, choose themselves, two candidates, the opposition complete, not only HDZ, but everyone else in the opposition did not attend the vote at all, there was no will to talk, not just with the attorney general. Remember the Commission for Conflict of Interest, Director of Croatian Radio Television, all on the same model. We see where it ends today, what it's like, what houses are built on the wrong foundations. It doesn't turn out right, because we see from this table, there's no law that this country didn't give, but there's no law that it has fulfilled. That's why they're complaining. Here's a wide range of rights for you, and then what's left is what's left of it. But it's not the task of a democratically decorated state and government because what can a lawyer do? He's warning, he's asking, he's offering, he's writing some kind of statement, sorry isn't some kind of a statement, but the executive government doesn't see, doesn't hear, doesn't react if it's not in her interest, if it's not in her interest. If it's in her best interest, then it's kind of supportive. But the basic thing is that we don't know by the times that we've heard here that the state administration doesn't respond to warnings, to requests, to simply ignore the existence of this office and therefore citizens. It says here, it doesn't give us the state money we need, it doesn't give us the space we need, it reduces our number of employees because we don't have enough money, and we have more than we had in 2011. So when we compare reports and some others who come here to the Parliament, let's say recently we had an information commissioner, the same problem, and then some others. You have the feeling that there is only money for some new centres, for some new chairs, and for everything that's important and what's bothering the Croatian citizen there is no money and even less will for those who should worry about it. I've just taken out a few important parts from this report where I find them illogical. The first is the referendum on Cyrillic, which is mentioned here and the position of the esteemed Ombudsman that it should not be called and even a recommendation to the government, the recommendation writes to the Government and the Parliament to preserve the bankruptcy level, meaning to exclude, preserve the acquired level of minority rights. Without any warning to the Government that his misbehavior is in line, i.e. The same referendum was triggered by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. The second, a referendum on marriage, says here that the amendment to the Constitution is a legitimate way of expressing the will of citizens, and then your statement following the referendum, the referendum on marriage goes against the fundamental values of the Constitution. Now, I don't get it. And we're allowed and we're not allowed to defend ourselves. This is from your statement, and this is from your report. Why am I saying that? Because now we have a major third referendum at the door. Here, the unions are collecting, how are we going to call it? Something can't, something can't, somewhere the D.A. says it's okay, it's okay, it's not somewhere. She even made it clear in the referendum on marriage – against. Which was unexpected for me. Why? Because the results showed that two thirds of the people did not think so, and perhaps the attorney general was perhaps the last person to be manifested in this regard. Maybe I get it wrong, but you're in conflict with those who are talking to you for help. That's what two-thirds say. The hate speech here is mentioned, you responded to a statement when there was a problem of bilingual records in Vukovar, but not one word in hate speech, you did not condemn the performance of a minister, who is no longer a minister, you did not condemn them publicly or by a statement. They didn't even condemn... events for Orthodox Christmas in Bor's settlement. It wasn't a hate speech, it was a demonstration maybe. Someone should have said something or we went through it like it wasn't in this country. I haven't heard from the attorney general in a statement about two Croatian journalists, the distinguished Mrs. Karoline Vidović Kristo and Hope Pracacin, who were fired because they obviously didn't do anything at the will of the leadership, Hope Pracchin got it because she was making 2 films about Gotovina, so they accused her of using something wrong, there's some kind of archive, etc. About this first lady more or less everything is said. We have one behaviour that goes from case to case, and we think that, in the club, we have made that clear and said, should not be the task of the Attorney General and must treat everyone equally because only now will we see it after this decision of the Administrative Court regarding the police where you have listed one part of how much it will cost us since we have experience from 2003 when the state of 2004 I think we have to pay some over 300 million kuna for it because someone has been playing by systematizing within its own powers. It might be over 300 million or maybe something less, but it certainly works a lot more for you. I'm afraid I'm saying because of some of these facts I can't support this report, but maybe 2014. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81457	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First respected Dubravko Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81458	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, fellow Boric, you've started off quite sharply and quite sharply, and in fact perhaps the Croatian public might get the impression that the Ombudsman is actually a Croatian invention, because here you said that there is no democracy, or at the moment there is no understanding of democracy. I would like to remind you that the tradition of the Prussian Ombudsman from the 19th century, meaning from 1809 in Sweden, and I had the honour of attending a seminar of European lawyers, just up in Sweden, where I saw that his office is still working up today, not only in Sweden, but in Denmark, Finland, which countries are rich not only in history and democracy but today can be said to be highly developed democratic standards, so here I just wanted to clarify that, here your remark, that there would be no misunderstanding that here is the Prussian Ombudsman our invention. Then you asked yourself, so what can the Attorney General do, which is his purpose? And then you yourself responded to warn, to change, to propose that, in collaboration with state institutions, it does and creates a democratic atmosphere that, here and Croatia will make and makes every day a more democratic country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81459	The line corresponds to the esteemed Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81460	Thank you very much. My colleague Bilic, I'm just, I didn't just say it like you did, maybe you got that feeling, that's all. You think I may have said something wrong, but when you increase your number of cases by 100% in two years, then the problem for me is the authorities, those who act as authorities, because they obviously give certain rights that people can't achieve, and they complain to the Attorney General. We need him, we didn't make him up. But the problem is in power, I was talking about the problem in power, but then my feeling that somehow, since it all went wrong already, created the impression that the Attorney General was acting in a way that the government or government would expect. That's why I cited examples of the referendum and everything we've been able to see in the past year, which we think may have been wrong, because if we in the opposition, let's say, on the very issue of taking care of the exiles, in connection with the renovation and housing care, we warn that you're not doing something that you've done, so it increases the number of cases that come to the Ombudsman. Then it's clear that someone made a mistake. So the opposition didn't make a mistake, did it? He's not even a public defender, but the government has made the system complicated, and today there's no problem that could have been solved the way we suggested. Now, who can convince you that you don't know or are not the most successful government by now when you say you are. We now warn you of what we warned you at the beginning, not to do what you did in the police. Now it comes to the checkout, and all the items at the lady's for consideration. And so in circles, it's just part of it. You can see for yourself that there are no rights that you have not given, but that there are no rights that are not in some way damaged.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81461	The replica also brings up the respected Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81462	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Boris, yes, when I spoke about politicizing the debate on the report of the Ombudsman, you are an ideal example, as Weber says. But when you look at only statistical data, so discrimination what I have said is the largest number of discriminations is under the category of racial or ethnicity, skin color, national origin, sexual orientation etc., etc. Well, it speaks more of us as a society than of our institutions. If we're going to talk about institutions, then we can talk about a school that doesn't raise our children to be responsible and tolerant citizens who should be in a modern European society. The second thing when you talk about a referendum, the referendum is without further ado, and I said that in the debate, a legitimate way of expressing the will of most citizens. However, human rights are always a slippery area, and so it can happen to us that we have tomorrow's initiative for a referendum that eliminates all women's rights, let's say the right to vote. So does that mean that it should be supported? Do you then give up the attorney general's right to declare it a violation of human rights or constitutional values, which is, I believe, the Constitutional Court will say so. Well, that's exactly the role of the attorney general to make such forms of discrimination and make our society better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81463	A new replica, dear Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81464	Thank you. He says fellow Boris that the government has caused a referendum on Cyrillic by its misbehaving. That reminds me of when a woman was raped, then she claims to have caused it herself because she had too short a skirt, because it was overly challengingly makeupd. We know who's raping and we know who's to blame. And let's not lie to each other and let's not fool ourselves. And when we talk about the number of cases and when we talk about how policy is being run and where policy ends, you're right, that's where you have the most to say. We've seen, we've started today with where politics ends when it's run the way it's done, and all the citizens in this country who've only been damaged by the INA decision have reported to the attorney general and could and could and should have had 4.5 million cases, just on one case. Please a colleague somewhere a measure still needs to be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81465	The replica corresponds to Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81466	Thank you very much. This could be called some moral education. Was that some kind of moral education? I don't know. Let everyone say what they want, I think what I think. There is an Article 8. The constitutional law on the rights of national minorities, it writes very nicely in what situation could have been approached without much care. Is there something wrong with the relationship in that town that you have something to say now, and time will show whether or not this referendum will be. It stands somewhere in the halls of this House and no one has the strength to say what's wrong with it. It means we've come to the stage to ignore something that's been done. And people signed off somewhere. There is a clear way of doing this, they brought it here and now you have no silence to call it administration, the silence of the Supreme Legislative Body Assembly in the Republic of Croatia, who doesn't know what to say. Another referendum is at the door, so you can challenge him and everyone else in a row, regardless of what you tried to do about marriage, but he said his people as well as about what you were talking about today and in the opening morning in the Parliament, but also about all the events that the people have witnessed in the last few months. Don't be afraid, he waited for his people for five minutes when he would sit at the table and take a note and evaluate us all together. Don't think you'll get a passing grade.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81467	A new replica of Đurjica twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81468	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow I will look back on only one part of you mentioned I will now say cyclostenic homophobic person in the image of Mr Jovanovic who has often insulted his statements, here and now when he is no longer a minister, for example. That he's going back to the Parliament and he's going to fight a criminal organization to never come to power. Now, you've listed some cases, I believe that such a homophobic statement is indeed a statement to which at least one of the attorneys should react if we can't get support from our fellow Members in the Parliament. That would be the same, and believe me, if we were to comment on everything, and I'd say thieving things, everything you said about the laws of different names and last names about it all, but that's what's being pushed under the carpet. And then this guy who's gonna come to the Parliament, that's how he's expressing himself, and now I'm showing myself that, of course, all the media are calling me, and I could probably get a lawyer to insult that person.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81469	Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81470	Thank you very much. Well, I wasn't thinking about that minister today, so there's going to be a chance here. He is no longer the minister of the joy of Croatian students, students, professors etc. He said he'd be a destroyer. So be it. I think he's well-destructed the system in which he's acted, that everyone's thanked him very much. He has his own personal language. I've been warning him already, not now for the last few months, two years, but since 2010. He's the first to be in political space, I've qualified it with a hate speech at the time, he's brought that in, he's built his career on it. We're waiting for him here to come and say everything he thinks, he has the right to do it. But it's an indisputable fact, his men have driven him out of power, i.e. They forced him out of position because he was incapacitated. He didn't know how to work, and I'm not even gonna tell those other qualifications that tell him down in the river. It's a question of where it's gonna end, but it's gonna be fun for him. It is up to us to warn the attorney general that he responds to such actions, especially high-ranking state officials. He's not qualified. It is not authorized to spread in this home or in public such stories, i.e. that it abuses the trust of the people that many here would be offended, and almost no group in its 2.5 years has passed that it has not been offended and that as such it is still credible. I think someone should warn him about it, and it's just a public defender who somehow needs it in writing somehow to tell him, so come on, man, calm down, you're not the one who can teach moral lessons.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81471	The last replica, the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81472	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Fellow Boris, a rescue policy decision was made a few months ago that all services and technical jobs in public services are out of business. It saves the state budget, it's a simple genius idea and a political decision has been made. Then the opponents organized a signing ceremony for this referendum that you mentioned, that's the third referendum and reportedly signed somewhere over 300,000 people. Today, however, a new political decision is being made. There's no outsoring, but there's spin off because this when you say it in English then that sounds glamorous. The question now arises who will complain about the inconclusiveness of union representatives, who will be complained about by employees whose fates are at stake and who will be complained about by 300,000 Croatian citizens who have shown their dissatisfaction with the government's policies. And in the end, the communal end, it all cost someone something. Who do they complain to? Is someone finally going to react in this country? Because look, if talking to the unions told someone that something was going to go out and that it was a done deal, then you wrote in the documents to prevent an excessive deficit that it was one of your key measures to reduce expenditure, both this and the next three years. Then you wrote this in the explanation of the rebalancing of the state budget to representatives in the Croatian Parliament and now the question arises that these representatives can appeal to someone. And then the government based on a political decision says you're all fools for what you supported, we're making a decision on spin off. And now you tell me, colleague Boric, well, since I'm not allowed to ask my attorney, who should all these people complain to?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81473	The replica corresponds to Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81474	Comrade Shuker, you know who they're gonna complain to, Attorney General. Why, because what you were saying was that one minister wrote something and the one who shouldn't have read it. Remember? Said the minister I wrote him what to send to Brussels, he didn't read. That was said. And now if you have a prime minister who doesn't read what the finance minister writes to him, then change him, you understand. And now there's a problem, and now it can be called whatever we want, but the fact is that many will lose their jobs if that's exactly what they intend to do because it's the simplest thing. An army of unemployed at the Bureau so they can manage. They have the attorney general, so let them complain, and we'll answer when we get there because they have to answer parliamentary questions, they have to answer a lot of different questions a day, and then some of those questions are answered by the attorney general. But the problem is what I mentioned at the beginning, all of this "my concern went down to another" and there's the lawyer that all the concerns and all the problems that arise from the days of rights, and not the ones that end up in the attorney's office, and they've written less money themselves, we don't have the right spaces and less employees to solve 100% more cases. Well, let's all be happy now, and I can't be. I can't be.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81475	We're continuing an individual debate. Honorable representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81476	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Attorney General with an associate. So if we were to ask citizens this way if they had enough information, I think the answer would still be that citizens still don't have enough information about what discrimination is, or not to recognize it. It is also a fact that many are afraid to apply, and here we heard just now that about 60% of the people surveyed are actually afraid to report discrimination. Therefore, I think that we should work on just such an education on discrimination, that is, rights to increase this reporting, or awareness. When we talk about legal solutions then in the report we have decisions that they're not enough somewhere, that they're bad, that it's a bad time. I would point out here, however, that it is a bad implementation, that there is a disregard for its own laws and that is what is not good and that is what creates one mistrust of citizens and in this way it may also be the reason that citizens do not report. However, we must stress that a relatively good legislative framework has been established in Croatia, however, there is no law enforcement. This report shows that the number of cases is significant. That's about 63%. Otherwise, this report combines a review of the human rights situation in Croatia in all competent institutions on the one hand, and on the other hand gives an overview of the work of the office. I think this report is very different this year, and that's why I welcome this methodology. So far, we've had three reports, which is a report filed by the attorney general under the Law on the Attorney General. Then the report submitted under the Law on a national preventive mechanism to prevent torture and other cruel inhumane humiliation and punishment. And thirdly, it is a report on the occurrences of discrimination in accordance with the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. So I welcome this methodology because we actually see in one place all the human rights violations that we got the first time in this report. The report is not only on complaints, but on other sources of information, of course. I'm wondering here if you're actually thinking about regional offices, or what would be the cost of these regional offices. Because that's how I think it would be to increase the availability of citizens. In this way we would probably be more often on the ground, there would be better co-operation with the local community, with I don't know NGOs, with trade unions, etc. When we talk about cooperation, we could certainly do various campaigns and stands and promotions, in fact all in the protection of human rights, i.e. awareness of discrimination. When we talk about strengthening power then we see that in fact in the past year the power, or expansion of action, has been strengthened. However, I wonder if the funds have been increased. And now the question is how could you actually work on it? A lot of examples have been mentioned here, so I'm not going to repeat everything, but I'm going to tell you about the homeless. I think this report shows that this homeless story isn't even, that it's left to more local self-government that everyone does as much as they can, or as much as they understand the problem that it is. It means it's a very large imbalance. When we look at the level of the central state, I think it's settled here in connection with the homeless in extreme winter conditions. However, not only are these extreme conditions not only then, but there are other examples of extreme conditions. I'd actually say something about health right now, and that's about age-based discrimination. Why do I say that? Because I think that attention should be given to how certain practices, i.e. accepted solutions and the usual way of working and doing how they work in relation to citizens of a certain age, so I'm going to say an example of ordering older people who are not skilled online, who don't have the Internet, who can't communicate with the answering machine where we have such orders. You know you have those instructions, now turn number two or number one. In what way will such older people communicate, or exercise their legal rights. That's one question. And today, there was talk about the prison system, the guidance of the prison system, the problem. I ask myself the same thing about health care when you share therapy in the health system. Who's sharing? Are they police officers or are they health workers, that is, judicial officers, not health workers. So here's a very short one. Of course, I support this report. It's all ours, but I'm back to square one. I think we have a legal framework for good. However, the problem is that the law is not respected, which, of course, makes one uncertainty and mistrust to the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81477	Thank you. We have one replica, dear Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81478	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Although I've answered the line before, probably because of the diagonal to Mr. Boric, you haven't seen me. But it doesn't matter. Comrade Shimac-Bonačić, you said this was a new methodology. I don't see any new methodology here, it's almost the same as the previous reports on the attorney general's staff except for the fact that it's about joining three reports. This may be new and may be more transparent, so in one part you said that most citizens are afraid to report discrimination in the Republic of Croatia. I don't know by which methodology we know which majority and how many citizens are afraid to report discrimination. Who are those citizens who are afraid to report discrimination about why and why. And when it comes to discrimination, then you probably know that it's divided into those 17 groups and it's very hard to really figure out where one group ends and where another group starts, especially when it comes to primary or secondary education where we have a lot of discrimination, and then again you share it in an asset character that is related to it, especially in primary schools where children are actually discriminated against. So perhaps when it comes to the occurrences of discrimination, I should say more specifically in certain things, based on those 17 actually, items related to discrimination, which is very difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81479	The replica corresponds to the respected Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81480	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, my colleague, when I was talking about how the citizens were afraid, I said that the citizens weren't fully informed, or that they couldn't recognize discrimination, and there's a part of the citizens who were afraid. I haven't done any research, so I can't tell you what part, but my colleague in front said that 60%, that data is about 60%. Another thing when I was talking about methodology is that this year's report is different. Of course it's different because we've had three reports before. In this way, the methodology has changed, three reports have been put into one, so we have transparency, a better overview of all that to see actually the human rights situation in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81481	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. It's next, Honourable representative Nadica Jelash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81482	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Ombudsman with her co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to ask one question at the beginning of my debate. Namely, we have an announcement on the agenda to discuss the 2013 Ombudsman's report and in the document, so the 2013 Report on the work of the Ombudsman is on the report itself. So, I'm asking if today we're discussing the Attorney General's Report or the Attorney General's office? Last year, we discussed the latest Report by the Ombudsman, Mr Jurica Malcic, and today we are discussing the first Report by the Ombudsman, Ms. Laura Vidovic. So, in addition to the fact that for the first time we are discussing a united report that, with only a report by the Ombudsman, contains a report on the National Prevention Mechanism and the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, I would like to say that the new Ombudsman has introduced a certain newspaper into the work of an office whose common denominator could be a more proactive relationship to some of the most common forms of human rights violations, so more of this work on the ground, more integration with the field, which I find particularly positive. For example, on the subject of performance as one of the biggest problems of Croatian citizens, the Ombudsman organised a public debate. She also gave the public her position, or position of the office, on a referendum on the official use of the language and letters of the national minorities. It has launched a number of initiatives to draft or amend human rights regulations, etc., etc. Therefore, it is also to welcome the establishment of the Human Rights Council as well as a certain noticeable dynamicisation of international cooperation by the Office of the Ombudsman. So it's all commendable. The papers are also visible in the presentation of this report. Namely, behind each area in which human rights violations and discriminatory behaviours have been detected, the Ombudsman shall make appropriate recommendations. Therefore, recommendations to the government, recommendations to the ministries, state offices and other authorities of the state administration for an effective resolution of complaints against citizens. A comparative review of new cases in 2013 compared to 2012 shows that more than 3000 new cases were received in 2013, a 63% increase compared to 2012. And this huge increase in the case clearly shows that in certain areas where human rights are most violated and what citizens are most complaining about, therefore there is still a lot of effort and a lot of additional measures to make the situation more significant. And while I'm at it, I'm going to make one suggestion, purely technical. So it would be very good if the review were to be completed in future by indices, the reporting year from the previous year. So that the dynamics of the movement of objects can be observed in areas from one year to the next. It would also be good to include data on the structure or representation of objects in certain areas in the total number of items received. The table shows that the judiciary has been for years, and I am afraid it will be for years, the area towards which the absolute worst dissatisfaction of Croatian citizens is directed. Citizens are primarily dissatisfied with the measure of court decisions, and then with the length of court proceedings. And precisely because the judiciary is a dominant area of complaints the citizens of attention is worth every positive shift in that area. And in this regard, I would like to stress that compared to 2012 in the 2013 report, the number of complaints from citizens in the area of justice has been reduced by a significant 12%. And it is also important to reduce the amount of compensation charged for violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. In 2012, 36 million kuna was paid out of the state budget, while 27 million kuna was paid in 2013. Of course, these 27 million kunas are still too much, especially if it is known that these compensations are actually paid by our citizens through the state budget. So we can say that citizens are actually being further punished for the ineffectiveness of the judiciary. And that is the absurd truth about justice in Croatian way. The more inaccessible the citizens are, in fact, more expensive. And this very truth about the inaccessible and expensive justice also raises the question of how much this fall of the complaint is, and we talked about 12%, so how much of this decline in citizens' complaints about the ineffectiveness of the judiciary has contributed to the recent economic crisis or the poverty of citizens? How many citizens actually give up the fight for justice? Because they simply don't have time, and in particular they don't have money to run endless litigation. In earlier years, when we discussed the ineffectiveness of the judiciary, we almost regularly asked how many judges were responsible for lengthening court proceedings, in a word how many judges were responsible for the ineffectiveness of the judiciary? A major step forward in this regard has just made the current Government a new Law on Courts of 2013 laying down additional remedies for the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. The law stipulates that court cases must be settled in order to be accepted in court, of course the exception is those cases which are in their nature urgent. And for non-compliance with these provisions, it is envisaged that the judges will be held accountable, but also the responsibility of the President of the Court for the overall efficiency of the court at stake. Therefore, the distribution of cases by judges as well as the work on cases is monitored through the information system, so that there is a full transparency in the award of cases and at the same time is certainly a reduction in the possibility of abuse and influence of court decisions. So it is obvious on this example but also on a number of others that this government is taking steps to make justice more accessible to Croatian citizens. In this context, I believe that the ongoing judicial system reorganisation project, which is being implemented by the Ministry of Justice, will also aim to ensure more uniform burden on the courts and of course the judges and more transparency of the courts, so that this reform will contribute to a stronger protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time and certainly to the greater efficiency of the judicial system as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81483	Thank you. We have two replicas. First honorary Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81484	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Jelash, you said that all the observed discrimination and behaviour of the Ombudsman had intervened towards the Government of the Republic of Croatia. However, it should also be said that indeed the Ombudsman has responded to the obvious, in particular the Ministry of Education and Sports, the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, the Ministry of Regional Development and European Funds, the Ministry of Finance, tax administrations and the like, but on matters actually done by the Government in the past year on issues of property rights, on issues of housing, health care and so on. But as the government responds, the government gave it in its opinion. If you read the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you will notice that the government mainly says in its opinion that the recommendations of the Ombudsman are also unfounded. If it wasn't for the derogation of the legislative authority in the Republic of Croatia and I'm sure, and what you noticed, the institution of the attorney general would have played an excellent role in our society. She's like this, I'd say, in a situation where the government doesn't hold much of an opinion from the attorney general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81485	The answer to the replica of the esteemed Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81486	Well, my colleague Babic, I disagree with you in any way that the government is not experiencing how you suggested by the Attorney General's Office. So already today, in one of my replicas, I emphasized that the report, or opinion of the Government, that I was made on page 29. So, in that view, the government, of course, has stated some views and disagreements with the office, but I also think it's a lot of what the government accepts by the Attorney General's Office and agrees with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81487	Second replica, respected Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81488	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues Jelash, I'm a little bit in the dilemma of what to say, in one part of your debate, you've talked about how there's a significant legal issue, how it's a very narrow throat, and whatever you've interpreted as you've said, you can also reassure me, but then you've given me a number of examples of how significant movements have been made to make justice more accessible, and I'm going to quote you, "To be available." And in that I would like to assure you, it is good to hear from Mrs. Attorney General, namely, I have spoken here several times about the excerptification of the grantovnica in Djurđevec, where by decision of the minister, two months ago it was set up and two months after that it was abolished. And now the people in that area, they have to travel, we know that this e-excerpt isn't responding, he's enough for some kind of, conduct some legal activities at the outset of permits, etc., he has to go buy a ticket, and 40 miles to travel to Koprivnica, so get out, and pay of course there, and pay the ticket back. And of course it also requires effort, all day long there, if the farmer can't do his job because there, with all the troubles that farmers have suffered, he's still in trouble, and of course he's not in a favourable position and justice is not available to him, and he's being discriminated against on that matter. Here, that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81489	The answer to the replica of the esteemed Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81490	Thank you very much. So like this, I've actually devoted most of my debate to the trial within a reasonable period of time, and there I've stressed that they've achieved quite significant effects. So, the very fact that the state budget, therefore from the money actually paid by Croatian citizens, paid instead of 36 million how much was paid for the damages because there was no trial within a reasonable period of time in 2012, is now reduced to 27 million kuna. So obviously some positive effect has been achieved there. And as far as this particular case of yours is concerned, it's one thing that's part of the rationalization of the judicial system. We are all aware that this rationalization had to be carried out that it would contribute to making the entire system more efficient. Will the citizens go a little further to solve their problems with the garter or-or every single town must have all the garland, I think it was a matter of rationality.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81491	We're continuing an individual debate. Honorable representative of the Dunja Spoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81492	Thank you, Vice President. The esteemed attorney general with an associate, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. During 2013, the Ombudsman received a large number of complaints about labour and employment discrimination. In this area, particularly endangered elderly people who are still able to work are long-term unemployed women with SS, young people and, of course, a very special group of people with disabilities. Therefore, the Ombudsman recommended that the Ministry of Labour and the Pension System and the Croatian Employment Service work continuously to increase the rate of participation of vulnerable groups of citizens, so young, older women, persons with disabilities in the labour market, in accordance with their responsibilities. People with disabilities are not only difficult on the labour market but also in their entire social life. For each adult, self-reliance is an independent attraction. By self-involvement, economic independence, every person and every person with disabilities acquires confidence and sense of self-esteem. Therefore, right now, the moment is due to high unemployment and job shortages to pay even more attention to those who find it difficult to find and keep their jobs even under optimal economic conditions. The Republic of Croatia is now part of the EU and is therefore obliged to eliminate discrimination on persons with disabilities as well as on all other persons and to promote equal opportunities by actively involving persons with disabilities in the world of work, including the possibility of part-time work, occasional and temporary work, respecting the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Strategy of Europe for Persons with Disabilities. The Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities was adopted in 2013 concerning this report and has brought serious changes to the system of professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons with a view to their greater employability. One of them is the introduction of quotas for employers, i.e. the quota employment of disabled persons in such a way as to prescribe employment obligations and for the real sector, depending on the total number of employees and activities that employers carry out the possibility of using a replacement quota and the obligation to pay a cash compensation for not fulfilling mandatory quota employment. The extension of the obligation of quota employment to the real sector as well as the introduction of the obligation to pay fines on the non-employment of persons with disabilities, the fact that it has been easier for employers to pay taxes so far than to hire one of the 260 disabled persons in Croatia will certainly change. Therefore, the transition from 2013 to 2014 is very important because of the entry into force of this law and because of the new EU financial cycle in which Croatia will be actively involved this time. This is the crucial coordination and coordination of the activities of state institutions, associations of persons with disabilities, employers and other partners. Likewise today my debate is going towards raising the level of awareness about the possibilities of working and hiring people from vulnerable groups of citizens, especially those with disabilities. To that end, I'm going to quote some experience of employers hiring people with disabilities. The source is the portal of my business. For example. We employ persons with disabilities since 2002 and currently employ 24 people with disabilities. These employees are particularly committed to their work, focused and industrious, and therefore often serve as a role model for other employees or the city of x since their establishment in 1993 systematically employs persons with disabilities. Employees are found in cooperation with the Croatian Employment Service for the City Exposition and Associations of Persons with Disabilities in the City Area, etc. In addition to hiring the problem for people with disabilities in Croatia and in the EU, it remains unsatisfactory access to all levels of education and thus obtaining the desired education and insufficient job creation for people with disabilities. This report today states that according to data from the Croatian Employment Service in the field of employment of disabled persons from 31 January to 31 December 2013, 6,789 persons with disabilities amounting to 1.9% of the total unemployed population are registered. In the same period, 0.9% of the total population I just cited was employed. But what is important is that we hope that these figures will be of more quality next year, and hopefully also give a signed agreement on a very important interinstitutional cooperation between the attorney general, the advocate for gender equality, the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities, and the Ombudsman for children who will ensure better communication between independent human rights authorities and ultimately make protection of citizens' rights more effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81493	And here we have a replica of the respected Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81494	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Spoljar, when you spoke discrimination in the field of work and employment, you saw well that there was a recommendation from the attorney general. It's true, but then you talked about people with disabilities as well as their employment. However, complaints under the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, and based on discrimination with the Office of the Advocates of Persons with Disabilities, there are only 7 of them. Other fundamentals related to the Office of Advocates for Persons with Disabilities have nothing to do with me and you and all citizens in the Republic of Croatia certainly to rejoice that there is no discrimination on these grounds. Of course, what you said about employment, I agree with you, perhaps there should be a little more sensitivity, especially for people with disabilities, but in the inability and jobs in the Republic of Croatia it is expected that in this area too, and especially for people with physical impairment will be or at this point there is less work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81495	The replica corresponds to the respected Dunja Špoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81496	So it's a very important conclusion to my debate, and that's exactly what I wanted to say. So the assumption is, it's good that there are only seven of them, we hope that next year there won't be any, but what really matters is that interinstitutional co-operation between the attorney-general and the assumption and rerouting complaints to the Ombudsman for people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81497	And the last one in an individual debate will be respected Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81498	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed attorney general with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. And this year, which is already a tradition that continues, the report is well structured, detailing the most significant problems with the promotion and protection of human rights and freedoms. Compared to last year's report, it should be noted that certain topics of truth are repeated, but certain topics are also less represented in the report, i.e. some have disappeared from focus, at least as far as this report is concerned. Thus, last year's report highlighted the problem of providing free legal assistance which is clearly no longer in focus because we have passed a new Law on Free Legal Assistance, which regulates this area significantly better than before the current law. Here's hoping that the attorney general will follow the application of this law so that we may get a better impression of how we are now operating in this area. It continues to stand out, in particular, that certain state bodies do not respond, therefore, to the request of the Ombudsman's Office when looking for information on specific items. But when we compare it again to reports in recent years, it should be noted that, however, my impression is that the number of state bodies who are inadequately responding to this number is being reduced, especially when we compare this year’s report with several previous years. I think there's a certain improvement. This is certainly still a significant problem, and here I would point out again the fact that the recent amendments to the Law on the Ombudsman of the day in Article 27(5) of the Authority to... propose the launch of an appropriate procedure against the person who, unconsciously, causes a violation of constitutional or legal rights and does not take action to reduce or correct damages. Here's what I'd like to encourage, once again, the Attorney General's office to use that power of its own. In previous discussions, the minister has often been criticised, so as the head person of the body, but it is necessary to say objectivity because the minister often has no contact with individual cases, nor is it realistically possible. But where it is necessary, especially because... a civil servant does not act as one of the instruments that the person in charge of the individual body should include is also this way as mentioned in the law. And it's only then that I find if the body leader doesn't react, then there's only a justification for criticizing that leader. Otherwise, there is a big problem with us, I think we can agree to a large extent, a problem in the work of a administration that is therefore expressed through inefficiency. One of the important reasons I feel is that there is no responsibility, no real responsibility for unhappiness or even obstruction. It's not very often, regardless of the previous governments, the one that manages the ministry, it's about the behavior of people who have been in there for years, about an skeletal structure that doesn't work well. The prescribing of certain behaviour as a reason for the launch of disciplinary responsibility would be an opinion itself in cases of inefficiency when this ineffectiveness is caused by unhappiness or obstruction. So, for example, in the case of ignoring, seeking out an attorney general for the obvious or conduct of a certain official, and if such behaviour is subject to a disciplinary procedure, I believe that this would have a much greater effect on future treatment than any report that is given. It is clear that there is always the possibility of political obstruction given by those top leaders, but then in that case reacting to the media would have an appropriate curative and preventive action. Compared to previous reports, special attention is paid to violations of labour rights and employment rights which I welcome. In past reports, I have pointed out that there is a particular need to pay better attention to this area. There are certain recommendations here. It still seems to me that we need to strengthen our engagement in this area. There is still a need to conclude that there are numerous cases of non-reporting of employees, delaying the conclusion of work contracts, non-payment of overtime, non-payment of salaries, etc., and these items may often not be sufficiently treated in the inspection service. There's a space where an additional engagement of the attorney general would be desirable. It is certainly necessary to welcome this emphasis on the problem of labour abuse or mobbing and, in any case, to join the initiative to address this problem properly through appropriate legislative solutions. It concerns that 248 new cases relating to discrimination have been opened during 2013 which is therefore an increase of over 22%. On increasing different forms of discrimination, intolerance is generally witnessed unfortunately in too many cases. Not only do we witness the continuation of such cases from past years, but often they take even more drastic forms. The attorney general here recommended workshops and stands as one of the forms of preventive action, but it seems to me that would even be insufficient. One of the instruments that could be prevented against such phenomena would be to introduce education in different forms of discrimination as part of civic education. Here I hope that the Ombudsman will also engage with his activity and engagement in the debate on the introduction of that education into schools through civic education, and I think it is an extremely good instrument for preventive action. As regards the complaint by the Advocate General on the work of the courts in 2013 in the highest number, it was therefore related to the quality of the work of the court and court decisions, and then to the length of the trial. As a positive point, however, it should be noted that the number of complaints from previous years has been reduced from which it would nevertheless be concluded that there are certain positive developments in this field. However, unfortunately through practice, we are still witnessing that in particular the speed of solving court cases there are shortcomings. Over the last few years, the amendments to the laws that were meant to allow for faster treatment and better concentration of the procedure. But let's just say we still have cases of litigation of possessions that is an emergency procedure that lasts over three years. There should certainly be room for improvement in imposing procedural discipline not only to the parties but also to judges. In certain legal transactions, the main debate takes a day, two or three until the case is resolved. There are even, therefore, instruments in our laws that make these things better, but it still seems to me that it's a human factor that doesn't actually happen. Here's hoping that the attorney general will be involved in finding a solution in that field. When we talk about the effectiveness of handling in state bodies, I have at least a dozen debates in this House highlighted the need to introduce the principle of e-government in the work of state administrations and also judicial authorities. So she stuck her eye to this recommendation number 42, where it is recommended that ways of communication with citizens be adapted to life habits, opportunities, needs of all groups of people, including those of the elderly. I took that as a call for attention, so when introducing new technologies and methods of communication is left behind, so the possibility is the way it was before. But I'm saying here it seems to me that there's a possibility that this might be misunderstood, that it's understood as a wish that nothing changes but that, therefore, they don't introduce new methods there di there's a danger that someone because of the new methods won't be able to access, for example, the administration as they've approached it so far. Here's what I'd like to say. Maybe it's more and better emphasized. The introduction of the principle of eGovernment, I believe, in the business of our administrative and judicial bodies, would have led to a far greater possibility of controlling the respect for constitutional and human rights and greatly facilitate the work of the Public Attorney's Office. Because let's just say that the items are conducted in electronic form then the Office of the Attorney General could in three clicks make an insight into the file, and it wouldn't have to wait for months to show up and deliver a file, for example from a particular ministry. One of the characteristics of the report refers therefore to the rights of old and powerless persons and there is also mentioned the problem of taking care of those persons, the conclusion of a life or life support contract that is often unknown to the possibilities of their conclusion. There is a proposal for maintenance, consultation of the tribunals, and it seems to me that there is still a need to further prescribe the obligation and responsibility of the public notaries to educate the parties in detail on the rights and obligations of those contracts, and this would seem to be a major problem for me. And that's what I was saying when I was talking about the work of the administration to write down certain criminal provisions, let's say for public notebooks that don't act that way. It seems to me in general that in our system it is necessary to introduce more specific responsibilities in the work of both state and public officials, and it seems to me that this would solve many of the problems we have. As time runs out, I would just say, therefore, that the report is well-conceived, exhaustive, that it proposes to a large extent good solutions and recommendations and should certainly be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81499	Thank you. One replica. Dear Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81500	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Pandek, you pointed out and emphasized this e-Government project and all the positive things that can come out of it and I wouldn't mind, of course, and I would agree with you on all these issues. But I have to point out in this place for a moment. If it is one equality, one correct relationship, then it is certainly necessary to emphasize that we need to know where we live, how informative and every other literacy and availability of what we have talked about. In the past, I also emphasized to my colleague Jelash a moment where people are not in an equal position with regard to, say, various dating documents. Well done with these new technologies, etc. But they have to go to FINA, they have to pasvord etc. It's okay, but we have people who don't know it, who can't. But I want to say here, and where we were told when the postal offices that are the cornerstone of communication in our rural ones were lifted. Seven post offices have been lifted in my county. This is the strongest and most important way of communication that our citizens have exercised certain rights, etc. No, it just doesn't. And in that part of the people in rural areas are cut off, discriminated, not in an equal position, and they don't have the possibility of using various new modern means of communication being manifested to the attorney or anywhere else, and that's why I'm saying on their behalf they're not in an equal position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81501	The replica matches the esteemed Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81502	... The introduction of new technologies, so that those old ways of communication remain. [[Specially enabled.]] So, if an option is introduced to initiate an administrative procedure with emails, there must always be an existing possibility that someone should send a letter. And as for these suspensions of post offices, and we need to know that mail is a company that operates on the principle of self-sustainability and self-sufficiency. The other thing is, if he wants to say the local self-government unit or any other body to subsidize a certain post office or something, that depends on it. It's always an option. This will be accepted by the Croatian Post Office as well as any other company that deals with such business and which it has on the basis of profitability.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81503	Thank you. The last minutes of this debate belong to the esteemed narrator, Mrs. Lori Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81504	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you to all the MPs and MPs who have been involved in this debate. I must say that at the very beginning of my final presentation, I am very sorry that Mr Vuksic is not here, whose exhibition I will actually be at in my initial part and refer to. And it actually refers to the meaning of this whole thing and to the meaning of the institution of the attorney general, the attorney general, the attorney general, perhaps so we can neutrally define it that there is no problem with expression and whether we are actually making some kind of change in the lives of people in Croatia or not. There was also an example of Nordic countries as countries that have a long tradition of ombudsman in their countries. So I'd just along the way maybe tell you something about the example of Denmark, as very short as a traditional Nordic country with a long Ombudsman institution. The Danish Ombudsman at our ombudsman's assembly for a long time, for 20 years, has been a lawyer, says he is not engaged in human rights. Human rights aren't his job. His job is so-called. "Little administration." So, violation of legal and constitutional rights in front of public authorities. Human rights as we may understand them more here in terms of monitoring the state of the general, researching analysis, promotional work in Denmark for the Danish Institute of Human Rights, which is part of the body for equality. It's not a national preventive mechanism and it doesn't work on complaints. The institute has an annual budget of 5 million and 100,000 euros. So, just the Institute of Equality, plus the ombudsman for which at this point I don't know which one has the budget, plus another body for equality that has an additional budget of one million and 600 thousand kuna. Our Croatian office, along with Poland, is the only thing we know about Europe that includes four mandates. So, classic ombudsman when we talk about public authorities, human rights in terms of monitoring the situation and analysis of promotional work research, the national preventive mechanism and the equality body, so discriminatory power. The Serbian Commissioner for Equality Protection employs 14 people, has a budget of 850 thousand euros, and a civil defender who is also a national preventive mechanism and like us has a status A has an annual budget of one million and 420 thousand euros. So together they have 2 million and 300,000 euros. Our office has about a million and 190 thousand euros. So only when we talk about expectations and when we talk about what we can do in the office and what changes we can make please keep this segment in mind. The institution of the attorney general and that's what it's called, I'll say it again and this year, the attorney general, is neither public nor I know what names were mentioned, it was created in '92. That's what I think we all know here, but only in this Ombudsman's term. Therefore, neither as national preventive nor as a body for the prevention of discrimination nor as an independent national human rights monitoring institution. All of these other mandates we've received since 2008 in here, and in that case, the budget that is now less than 9 million kuna has not been increased to a sufficient extent. And then what is the function of the office of 30 people, and what should these 30 people do? It certainly isn't, and it can't be to correct all the wrong drifts in this country. It is certainly not an institution that should be responsible for the overall functioning of the rule of law and for any failures in democratisation of the country if you want to whichever happens. It will certainly not function as a direct court, neither as a super-system nor as a double system that will control, sanction and warn every body, every institution, every single individual, every politician, the person who does something that shouldn't in any way. And that in all the areas of life where you can remember, from the interstitial relationships that we get a lot of complaints about, some of which I won't even mention not getting public space because then it does us more harm than good, to the outsorcing, let's just say, what was it about. What I see as a function of this office is that we point out that we monitor and monitor, we make recommendations to competent authorities, governments, parliaments, units of local self-government, to all public-law institutions and even to natural persons or legal persons when it comes to combating discrimination and we point to irregularities that occur within our powers. You're decision-makers and you're responsible for whether something's going to change or not. Why isn't it changing? It's not a question to ask me, it's a question to answer for yourself. Why aren't things changing? I really don't know. It is up to me to highlight them again and again every year and as Mr Vuksic said every year we speak the same and read the same, very likely I will speak the same thing again here next year and answer the same questions and repeat the same recommendations or reshape them to be more understandable. Why is that? It's really not my responsibility and it's not for me to answer the question. When we talk about implementing recommendations or monitoring how our recommendations are implemented, I will remind you that the Government has entrusted the Government's Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities with the regulation to submit a report, or to submit a report on the activities undertaken in relation to recommendations made by the Ombudsman. At the time of writing this report, and even now we don't have a government office report for 2012. So we only have what was for 2011. I'm a little sorry, but I have to say, when we go to lunch, it's a little bit like we talked about a colleague and I, my deputy, a little sorry that we haven't heard a real debate about human rights in Croatia. And we think it's a partial and missed opportunity. And here's hoping that maybe next year we'll be able to really talk about human rights issues that are really acute and important, and maybe less talk about the work of the office itself. Although, of course, I am not running away from talking about the work of the office and what we can do more and better. So, of the 18 advisors of the attorney general currently working on complaints from citizens. The possibilities of proactive action, and of acting and reacting in a situation where the number of complaints is, and I believe that we all know it already very well, increased by 63% is really very limited. Every day is at least one quite certain new opportunity in an individual case, but also in the great principle that someone resents me and notices that I have not responded to anything, each day such an opportunity exists. And I won't answer that, it's impossible, those expectations are simply impossible to meet. The number of areas we don't currently cover in the office, we ourselves know we don't cover them, our expectation is that we will, we can and we need to work, but that's why we don't have the capacity. I'll list you at risk of you starting to ask me again next year what I did in this one or that one. The freedom of the media, the electoral right that Mr Babic spoke of, the right to privacy, freedom of association, the right to public gathering, the right to work, actually the right to work in the way that it really should under the Constitution we do not have the capacity to monitor, we follow them in the ombudsman jurisdiction, we follow them as rights in the field of unemployment or in anti-discrimination. In another way, we really don't have the capacity. In doing so, it is an attempt to make me politically, myself personally, politically classify me left and right of this or that, I am indeed most resolutely rejecting. What I'm sure is that recommendations, and opinions, and a statement, and I think whatever form of communication you choose in the office will be professional, well-founded and reasoned. In the legal profession, on the theory of human rights, in the practice of the European Court of Human Rights and regardless of who is in power. Here, now you can trust me, you don't have to believe me, I really don't know if human rights and the rights of national minorities are left and right of this or what, I don't know what. I will deal with human rights and the rights of national minorities, and I will not try to be anyone or anyone likable or unsympathetic. What I certainly will not be is as aggressive and violent as Mr Vuksic suggested it should be. I think the violence in our public space and in our debates is too much and I don't want to contribute. Increase the number of complaints from 63% to 3021, is that much or little? It's small, 'cause I'm sure I'm not talking about the right condition, I'm sure. There is room for an incomparably large number of complaints, of course someone needs to process them and do it. There are a lot of them when we talk about growth compared to the year before, there are a lot of them when we talk about office capacities and people who really don't view these items as simple papers that will only answer something to take off the agenda, but if you want to learn more about it, then it takes a lot more time and effort. As regards the right of employment in state bodies and the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, that is, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities is therefore part of the Corps of Minority Rights and, among other things, rules and the right to priority in employment. Discrimination law, international discrimination law, CERD, or European discriminatory law, and then the Anti-discrimination Act allows for the favour of individual groups and employment, Article 9(9). The Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. In this regard, I must say that there is no case-law in the law of the European Union, which would say whether it is discrimination or not. I hope that's enough to answer your question? As far as the special reports are concerned, Mr. Babic, I know it's your topic and that this is something that we keep coming back to in our discussions, especially as regards health care, you can trust me, you don't have to believe me. A special report on health care would make no sense without the fact of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, which came the day before the Constitutional Court made its decision on health care after our second or third rush. In this regard, it is quite ineffective, ineffective, wrong to report when the Constitutional Court has made a decision that is legally binding, as you know, views, opinions, recommendations by the Advocate General, the Advocate General is not legally binding. And I'm sure you know that by now, here's how much I know, correct me if I'm wrong, not one, not a single vehicular, not a single special lawyer, not a single vehicular attorney, not a single special report, as far as I know, as I don't remember. We prescribed by the Rules of Procedure last year that we will decide on our own when and how to endure them, and I am really still standing there. And as for the relationship between the constitutional court, I think it's really ineffective, ineffective, and I would even say wrong from the perspective of spending budgets if you want both the Constitutional Court and any Ombudsman to deal with the same topics at the same time, and we know that the Constitutional Court still makes legally binding decisions. As for police treatment and Mr. Pajičić, within the MUP or within the police department, there are two established mechanisms that determine the actual state of play when it comes to police conduct, so the Internal Affairs Service and the Civil Surveillance Committee. We do not establish facts in the process. What is the problem with us in relation to the police treatment you saw and you read the report, it comes from our previous behaviour that we get very formal answers from the MUP, it suits us almost regularly that of course everything was fine and everything was as they originally thought about overstepping powers as regards Mr. Pajčić. As the MIP procedure was conducted this year, of course we will report it in the following year. As for complaints from abroad, I would say, so you read the report well 150 of them, but that is the total number of complaints or queries that we received from abroad. In the meantime, 4 of them were checked for citizens' questions about the possibility of voting abroad, and they do not have a residence in Croatia. These are not complaints in accordance with the Law of the People's Republic, but in such cases, we treat this as an enquiries and forward it to the competent authorities or to the citizens where and whom they should report it is this initial part of the problem that I was saying that citizens do not know where to get the information, where they could protect their right. With regard to HRT employees, I am not sure which representative is talking about this, please see page 57 of the report. Both cases were described inside, of course anonymous and, of course, an integral part of the report because the summary does not have 57 pages. As for the referendum, I am particularly pleased to share with you, in September 2013, you will find Mr Babić at the Ombudsman hr. So I would read if you don't mind "we consider it necessary to point out that the latest ideas about the Parliament's calling for a new referendum which would defuse the previous referendum initiative, we consider it to be a democratic process or a kind of change of rules in an inadequate manner and amid a democratic process which is totally unacceptable, and then a democratic procedure requires that the Parliament, if the conditions have been met, call a referendum on the proposed referendum" that refers to a referendum on marriage. As you know from that idea to be dissipated, and after this step, he gave up. This was in September 2013, before that in June 2013, we had a statement that I also have here in the print that calls for respect for procedures and respect for the will of citizens. As for the 2014 Cyrillic referendum, but since there was a lot of debate about it, I would mention it here anyway. In a letter to the President of the Croatian Parliament, I write about this, and this letter is on our website that it is extremely important for the decision-making process to be carried out in accordance with the existing rules by respecting the rule of law and it is important to respond to the legitimate expectations of citizens who are seeking to hold the referendum and who gave their signatures for this referendum initiative. Why it finally didn't come to me, I don't know, but one thing you definitely can't attribute to me, which is that I didn't stand up for in my public statements, so that in either referendum and the other referendum, I really respected and respected the right to make direct decisions, and every time I said my point of view about what I mean in the specific content issue. Of course, the matter of procedure here is really just as important. As regards the initiation of our procedure under Article 27. The Law on the Ombudsman states that the Ombudsman may ask the head of the body, may propose to the head of the body to initiate an appropriate procedure against a person who has, by unwittingly, caused a violation of the constitutional and legal rights of the citizens or did not take the appropriate damage. To me the memos I receive and the report and the obviouss come with the signature of a minister, or assistant minister, say, don't come with the signature of a person who's an officer let's say on a particular case. I really don't know who this person is in some ministry who, if it's about obstructing or wrongly working on a particular case, I think it's exactly the task of the head of that body. I think that anyone who has worked in a state administration who understands the system of state administration sees that this is one of the articles of the Law on the Ombudsman, who is completely inhospitable and who should adapt in this respect not running away from the real possibilities of a much stronger action that can be prescribed by the Law on the Regiment and which would give us powers for stronger work. The beginning and end of this is the separation of sufficient capacity. As I said at the beginning of the opening of the district offices, we estimate that at the annual level we need one million kuna. Compared to these budgets I initially told you, especially for example. Serbia, we've done this quick research now, and I don't think it's really a big separation, and it would allow us not only to be more good at the complaints that we have that we have greater capacity to act really and on our own initiative, and that we can really do much more and more proactively work on the individual injuries we see ourselves, but also to follow all these areas that I mentioned, which we don't really have any capacity to do right now. And I'm afraid that if we fail to strengthen the office in this sense that it will actually weaken us even more because I'm afraid it's very difficult to find ways to motivate people who are doing so much and more and more and more dedicatedly and just getting more and more different jobs. I hope I've answered all your questions and I look forward to the rest of the year and the opportunity to cooperate, to really cooperate quality, regardless of which side and where who is who. I am really looking forward to some joint action and in order to individual cases that you may notice, and I do not, and you will draw my attention, but also much more important general and strategic actions on what we learn from these individual cases and what can actually make a particular situation better for a much greater number of citizens than just one person who has complained to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81505	Thank you very much. Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81506	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Madam Attorney-General, I'm stuck with the ear where you said the Danish Ombudsman didn't answer at all or the human rights debate, if I remember correctly. Well, I don't think he even needs to be on such a high level, when what our people say is there's nothing left and then you pull a parallel in some way that you're sorry that we didn't discuss human rights here any more today. Well, it would take a long time, I'm telling you, it would take a long time, only if we start from that right to work and given this number of unemployed people, that's enough talking to themselves. Secondly, let's say for available and quality healthcare. So what right is it when you wait a year for one search, you know how it can end. And those few things that I was talking about, about availability and garnery and the judiciary, are all things to talk about, of course, and the mail that's in our rural, and that's one question that greatly undermines the equality of our citizens. But I noticed you said you were pointing, recommending politicians, local self-government that we should behave or something. Well, here I have one concrete suggestion that you tell Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic not to spit in the mirror, first because of course it is not pedagogical for those who should have said it, and secondly it is contrary to the Health Protection Act. And third, let me and these honorable people not call me members of a criminal organization, we are proud members of a party under whose leadership the Croatian homeland is created and defended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81507	You know this wasn't a replica of my colleague Milinkovic. She wasn't a replica to the defense attorney. Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81508	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, I'm actually going to pick up where my colleague Milinkovic left off, but I'm going to be guided by what you said in your presentation, the esteemed attorney general said, and since we often see each other on the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of the National Minorities. You must also understand that certain things are not only represented but are in the interest of both your and our Croatian citizens. My wish is that the intensity is strengthening the institutions of the Croatian state. I don't need to explain here, especially why the institution of the attorney general. When you spoke of ombudsmen from the European Union, you mentioned Denmark as one developed democracy, Sweden and so on. I have to tell you from my personal experience that I experienced the highest xenophobia in Sweden. This does not mean that there is no threat to human rights because you said that they do not actually have judicial practice in the field of discrimination, but that does not mean, the European Union is here. The European Union if I've made a mistake, but anyway, I think they have human rights issues, too. The truth is that through the institution of the occupier, here and you, the classic ombudsman, then human rights, then the national preventive mechanism. What needs to be guided is in fact the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. You can actually make your reports from the first to the last article. This is particularly related to Articles 35 to 41, which is particularly familiar to you but also to the Law on the Ombudsman of the Republic of Croatia. You say you're not the ones who make it, you're the ones who change decisions. The Croatian Parliament. It is not true, it is actually the parliamentary majority because we did not participate, and you special reports should work and whatever your predecessors are not, at least because of that Latin "verba volunteer, script manent" that at least you stay in the phonogram of this convocation of the Croatian Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81509	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Would you like to respond to the replica? ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I haven't written you down, but here's your colleague, Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81510	So back to the question of you as activists of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, what counterpart Babic said. So from what you have just read, your reaction to the proposal that the anti-referendum actually derails the referendum on the constitutional definition of marriage is absolutely not on the trail of any government policy, and it would be quite the opposite. So I defended you with law, and my colleague seems to have attacked you with injustice because he has declared you to be actually on the side of the government, and you have defended some universal values, or rights. I don't think you should have done that. At that time, I do not think it is the responsibility of the attorney general to interfere with issues of constitutional law, procedural issues, constitutional procedural issues. This was a constitutional procedural question. Even in the highest content issues concerning collective rights, I think it is also not a fundamental task of the attorney general, and then we do not support what you have involved in this problem at all because there is another body that has been responsible for this and which in this sense has not been manifested, it is not good to overlap. With regard to your second interference in constitutional and legal processes, i.e. the current processes concerning the second referendum, I support this because it is not procedural issues, but rather a matter where large minority rights can be compromised so that in that second case I support it. But I think in what you've just read, it's not, of course, beyond the scope of your actions, but I don't think you needed it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81511	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81512	A regular annual report by the Advocate General for 2013, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the next conclusion. A regular annual report by the Advocate General for 2013 is hereby adopted. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 82 votes in favour, 27 votes against and 1 abstention, have adopted the proposed conclusion. In line with the proposal of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the next conclusion. The opinion, observations and proposals presented in the debate on the report as well as the comments, proposals and recommendations made by the Ombudsman in the report shall be submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to take measures to make the work of the competent state authorities and bodies with public authority more effective. I'd like to make a statement on the proposed conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I note that the proposed conclusion was made by a majority vote 81 votes in favour, 28 votes against and 1 abstention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81513	And we will discuss tonight - A report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2013 by the Ombudsman for children provided the report on the basis of Article 18. The Law on Child's Attorney General. You've received the material. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received the report at the session. Please, a little peace. The opening report will be explained by Dr Ivana Milas-Klaric, the children's lawyer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81514	Honorable vice president, respected MPs. Well, I might be able to find out that you're either a little exhausted on my colleague's report or maybe it's too competitive. But I would really like to say one thing for the first time in front of this House. On my duty, I was appointed on April 1st of this year, and I really do feel and I would like to be perceived as in some way by the power of attorney of this House. I would very much like to see more of your colleagues in this assembly, regardless of whether it is the Ombudsman's report for children, therefore my report or the report of any other lawyer or lawyer. When I say that I feel and want to feel like Commissioner of Parliament, the Parliament sounds quite abstract. In fact, I want to say that I want to feel like the power of attorney of whatever you are, that you see the institution as the place where you can get the most relevant legal, precise and politically uncolored views about the issues my office deals with and where you can trust to address when you decide and when you make decisions that are important and relevant to children, and we know it very much because there is hardly a decision that is in any way not reflected in children. I want to be a correction to the government however anyone understands or wants to understand it, and with the aim of making the rules that we bring to be quality and actually being the best in the name of our children. I'll present my report at four points, I don't think you have to worry about that. It doesn't mean long, it'll be relatively short. First, I would like to say a few introductory notes, and then I would like to say a brief word about the work of the Ombudsman for children in 2013. Then I would follow a brief analysis with several of the most important points and my assessment of the state of children's rights in 2013 and finally a few if you allow me the final notes. As far as this opening part is concerned, I am submitting a report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2013. As you know, this report was published, made and published on the web in March 2013. I took office on April 1st this year. So formal or technically, however you want, it's not my report. But here I am with all my heart at this point defending it and I think it's done correctly and in accordance with the methodology of previous years. Speaking of methodology, this report has been monitoring the report methodology for the last 10 years. I'd like to discuss this a little bit more about the methodology of the report in the closing notes. The report is quite extensive, containing 250 pages. There's so much as one 30-page add-on. This all suggests a 30 - page add-on, or summary, that it is a comprehensive text through which, perhaps if I may allow myself to do so, I may at times find it a little difficult to achieve, and in that sense, in conclusion notes, I would announce certain changes for further work. As for the work of the office, the office this year, the Law on Advocates and Advocates for Children was passed in 2003. So, we've been celebrating for 10 years since law-making and the establishment of an office. This year we also had an external evaluation of work, after five years and now after 10. I find that actually very good, whenever people, when you follow your work from the outside, it's good. What's really problematic about this whole story is that when you have an external evaluation, you need more people to do it, that it's an expert team, not one or less people. Of course, it's always about finance. The greater the number of people, the more quality this external expertise is, as a rule, is. However, it is also unplugged with higher financial requirements. I will try to find, then, in further external expertise, a real measure between the quality of such expertise and costs and the material resources available to us. In 2013, we had 2659 new items. Half of it is going to waste somewhere on reports of individual infringements of children's rights, slightly more than half of it, and 1223 refers to general office initiatives. And that's where we get an increase in the number of files in the last year compared to earlier than 208. Only for the first three years we had one relatively small equal number, after 2006 the number of objects in the office was constantly increasing. I'm afraid I'm not going to be able to stop that trend, that it's going to be the same number or that it's going to go bigger. However, my goal would actually be a reduction. We constantly doubt whether an increase in the number of cases is the result of an increased awareness of children's rights or is the result of the fact that something with this state of children's rights and the system is not working. I would like to believe that an increase in the number of cases is the result of an only increased awareness and awareness of children's rights issues. But intimately but professionally, I'm afraid that's not the case. It seems to me from the content of applications that we receive on a daily basis only in May of over 200 new items. I am afraid that from the way citizens write to us about injuries or claims of damage to the right, it seems to me that one comprehensive frustration of citizens on the state of children's rights and incoherence I would say the system in many segments, and very often the ineffectiveness of the system. I have to point out, and I'm not going to tell you the number of 2000, but the contacts that office employees have with the parties. They don't register, but they mean hard work, and they actually represent us, we say we don't give legal advice, we don't deal with legal aid. However, it is actually a small lie to the employees of the office at their own expense. We are in fact engaged in free legal aid because in each of these phone conversations we actually give legal advice, and even when we say we do not give legal aid free of charge, then colleagues write two pages of free legal advice. So, I would say no matter what our powers in the law are not clearly defined, we are very much engaged in free legal aid. A network of young co-workers of the Ombudsman institution for children is worth doing. In September, we will have a choice of new children, or new colleagues. In 2013, we had 49 general recommendations. Approximately 33 were accepted, 7 partially accepted, not accepted 5. I have to admit to me the most vulnerabilities of the number 9 that have not been answered. That when it's not accepted doesn't bother me too much, when it's not answered at all, it bothers me a little bit. And that number, even if 9 out of 33 says something about how much our position actually understands and how much morals we always and at all times can act. I would say, unfortunately, in this House of Highs, that some people and institutions, unfortunately, have often seen morals as chewing gum that can stretch to fatigue. It is not good that the position of an institution, in this case as attorney for the children I lead, is purely moral. That would be good if that were the case, it would be good if every recommendation and instruction were followed, if you really took it seriously. Unfortunately, it is not always so and in this sense I think there is a certain space for changing the law, and I do not mean duplication of powers with courts or other bodies, but the fact is that many institutions do not do their job well and that in some way, it is unacceptable for them to be very brief and very clear that some institutions, on several occasions, ask for an answer. So that's something that shouldn't happen. In this year we also participated in the adoption of 39 regulations, 25 laws, 10 regulations, 4 protocols. We've visited 78 institutions. It's something that actually the D.A. is doing and it's very useful. From the field you get really the best vision of how things work better than from any regulation. We've had five meetings. We are particularly proud of the one who was in the Parliament entitled "Children's Rights in Croatia today" and one within the network of defenders for children of Southeast Europe... "Children on the Move." [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I must commend myself in fact that the institution of the Ombudsman for children within this network of lawyers in Southeast Europe really understand and see as a leader in the protection of children's rights in the region, and I would say that the role of the Ombudsman for children of the Republic of Croatia is also very active in the European network of children's defenders. We published 3 professional publications, two in English, and participated in 65 invited exhibitions. Something a little bit of course has to be said about finances. The Ombudsman’s 2013 budget amounted to 5 million 330 thousand 888 kuna and was made at 98%. And we really need to say that we have very good cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury. As for the third and pre-lated part of my statement relating to infringements of rights, i.e. the state of children's rights in the Republic of Croatia, the report has 250 pages. It would be difficult in this hour to think and irrationally convince him entirely and in most parts. I think I have to single out three groups of the most common rights violations, and it's also signaling to us, so where there's the most notice it's obvious that something's wrong, and these are exactly the areas where I think I have to continue to do something a little more active than ever. Out of 1436 reports of individual infringements of children's rights almost half refers to the personal rights of children. This suggests that these injuries are really serious and that, as the predecessor said earlier, Mrs. Vidovic, the violation of rights probably has more, the dark zone is quite certainly bigger. However, people often do not report any injury or any suspicion of an injury they estimate may be relatively benign or harmless. Like that. We don't have a lot of rights violations that concern kids' free time, doesn't mean they're gone. We're with the kids this morning, two hours of hard work children were talking about the state of children's rights, and there's this segment of rights violations. But of course she's beside these big ones, so to speak, severe violations of rights do not come to terms. Of these personal rights, I'll tell you which three groups are most commonly registered. Of course, a man must be honest and make it very clear that not every application is necessary and a violation of the right, that it is a claim on a violation of the right. And here I would really try to in the future without the information systems to develop anything, and as far as possible a certain monitoring system that you have a somewhat clear picture of where each application has ended, or whether any claim of injury really meant a violation of the right. The most common problems and reports are related to the achievement of parental care in conflict divorces or interruptions of extramarital communities. This fact I think, in fact, makes it quite clear that those who are under the Law family, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Convention on the Rights of the Child most invited to protect children's rights are parents, they most often violate them. That should be made clear. We very often, I as a lawyer already in this short period of 2 months can actually argue that we do very often, although it is not our direct jurisdiction, with troubled parents, and not with children. And that, in fact, very often parents generate a problem that then, of course, shifts to children and we have a violation of children's rights. So, you need to take off the pink glasses when it comes to, when you imagine some ideal parents, and still in pairs, ideal parents protecting children, and their rights offend, hurt someone else. No, on the contrary, most children's rights violate those who should protect them most are parents. The second most common group of injuries is violence against children and neglect of children and violence between children. Again, when it comes to violence and child neglect, it is very often associated with this first group, with issues about achieving parental care. Thus, violence and neglect related to conflict divorces and conflicting terminations of extramarital communities. And the third most common group of children's rights violations or reports of child rights violations are found in the education system. It's not illogical, because of course the education system is the highest percentage of children and involved, so then it's quite actually logical. And these are three areas where it seems to me that we should actually work in the future the most. In some ways, the goal is to absolutely reduce the number of files, reduce the number of objects. I would take it as a success, and I wouldn't be afraid, if I said so for my position, I wouldn't feel like the person who cuts his own branch, wouldn't be afraid if it meant losing his position and putting it in a position to tell me then I don't need you. No, my ideal goal would be a maximum or significant reduction in the number of objects, that would make me satisfied if it were possible to achieve it. Something, all the other injuries are minor, in the judiciary are actually very expected quite often in the social care system, and if you really want some special specificity for 2013, because, of course, it seems to me that these reports as much as they are similar, you should actually be shown some trend in the year in which it is, right, that you don't feel like you're listening to the same report every year so you don't know if someone doesn't tell you what year you're in, that you don't know what year it is. In 2013, we have a significant increase in injuries or reports of injuries in the field of health care. I was part of, a good part of the waste to apply for the inability of orthodonic appliances, a good part to vaccination, the issue of availability of health care, waiting lists and what I would very much like to highlight because it is actually the most endangered group of children with developmental difficulties. So if there's a sensitive social group at all, then it's children with developmental difficulties. It's twice sensitive, and if someone mentioned a separate report, a separate report, and about the need to write a separate report, then I see this topic as the basis for that. Children with health problems and I also see her in cooperation with a colleague of the D.A.'s for people with disabilities. I hope we make it happen. In the end, I would actually like to say that one problem that has been highlighted by my predecessors for years, and so will I, which I am not happy about, hope that this trend will stop, a negative trend, and that is poverty. It's a problem that generates actually a violation of rights at all levels. In social protection, in the judiciary, in health care, in education, so that's one problem that's getting more and more talked about. We are no exception in Europe or in the world, which does not mean that we do not have to talk about it all the time, and that does not mean that there is no need to do anything about it. So much for the report itself. Finally, although this is not a topic of course, it will be a subject in 2014 when we discuss the 2014 report, a period of nearly 3 months now that I am on duty, it has given me a pretty clear insight into the work of the Ombudsman institution for children and in the state of children's rights. I've followed very closely the debate that referred to my choice in this honorable House. Some of the suggestions I agree with them, and I take them very seriously. I think that it is also possible to change the scope of my mother-in-law itself, the process of electing a lawyer, and, as I have already mentioned, there is some space and in changing powers, of course with the attention not to be duplicated against some other competent authorities. I think the report should do something more passable, so still rich data, content-like but more passable so that you can in one place in some way, for example. if you are dealing with a health issue, find our recommendations and suggestions for amending legislation and statistics. One more thing, my colleague Vidovic mentioned before me the need for regional offices. I would really be a hypocrite if I didn't express my support from the fact that I can proudly say that the Ombudsman for children has three regional offices, these are Rijeka, Osijek and Split and indeed if I were to choose something to thank my predecessor for, there's a lot, but that would certainly be the first thing. Experience in the work of regional offices is great. I think it's a little after a few years that it's my turn not to mention regional offices as such in future reports. They're founded, they're working, they're doing good. So you are not interested in eating something in technical terms done in Zagreb or Split. We function as one office in that sense. However, what you are interested in as parliamentary representatives and what is of interest to the citizens of this country when I have this report, which is that they see clearly what is with some phenomenon in their region that they are interested in, locally regardless of whether it is health care, social care, justice, and why it may be in some area that some phenomenon tends to grow or fall in that year. And in that sense, I would try to show the work of regional offices, not as a work in technical terms, but as a state of individual rights in the regions. I thank you. I hope I was brief enough not to burden you, and clearly enough to hear what I thought was necessary to hear in the 2013 Ombudsman's 2013 report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81515	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81516	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Madam Attorney, we know that you are very brief and this report is really extensive. I'll take advantage of that now that you're here to tell you something about a phenomenon that must be going on for a long time, but I haven't seen her mention her anywhere, and quite accidentally at a meeting she was troubled and I think you should know her. In no way has the situation been solved when an alcoholic parent comes to pick up his child in kindergarten. Aunts in kindergartens especially in small places where everyone knows everyone, is afraid to call the police, be afraid to react and fear in reality that a child is not handed over to such an alcoholic parent. And that's when we come to you that sometimes parental care is worrying. Now, nowhere is there a foothold that they might call upon when an alcoholic parent comes to say no, we will not give a child whom to call. Because, of course, in small places, it's a problem to call someone from the center while all of this is done breaking half the kindergarten or masculinating most of the children. I'm going to use one more second to ask you, it's also about the kids I didn't hear you react or maybe you didn't think it was necessary. But I think that's a big problem. That is why children who attend two schools are detimulated in some way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81517	Time fellows.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81518	Can I have one final sentence to ask if she can answer me, please? Children who go to two schools go to regular school and another school where they have other classes. And thank God for former Minister Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81519	You've reached out to your colleague for a hearing, and then you'll say so. Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81520	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I would agree with you, Madam Attorney General, in that section, that it is necessary to raise awareness of the rights of children, and also in units of local self-government, from which I come and I want to say that this consciousness is quite high. As far as preschool education is concerned, let's say the specific conditions for normal attendance and kindergartens and many have ideas and have projects, but of course not all of them are the same as for me where we have three kindergartens that are free and thank God that there are more but certainly there are other places where you should help with more levels in these investments and thus raise the conditions and awareness. But the other thing in particular should be emphasized by the moment that it is necessary to raise awareness of children with developmental difficulties, which parents in their protests also manifested themselves about parenting status. You probably know that. So we know what was going on at Centrom Stancic, and you also know what were the perks, every honor of institutionalization. But I want to say what you said that the problem is troubled parents. I want to say that the problem and the problematic laws that are being passed quickly and then there are certain problems, especially in the part where you talked about divorces. Well, here's a short time ago we talked about this segment, and the family centers simply fell with their paws that had a very good place, and they were very functional and effective and precisely about this preventive solution to that problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81521	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Martina Banic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81522	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Advocate for the children, colleagues and colleagues. Childhood is a one-time window in the development of child's potential, the password of the National Strategy for Children's Rights in Croatia by 2020, aimed at providing better services in health, education, social care, justice, sports, culture and free time for children, and the elimination of all forms of violence against children. Today, when we talk about this comprehensive report by the Ombudsman for children for 2013 I must say that neither this report nor all previous violations of children's rights relating to all segments of their lives have been deprived. As in many of the debates that we can hear here every day, today we must look to the problem of poverty, economic and economic crisis. Parents lose their jobs every day, no jobs. They're going into quests that often have no end, which become impossible missions. All of this has an impact on the quality of life of children, endangers their rights. The fact that poverty is increasing daily creates numerous risks for children from neglect and abuse, down to access to health, education, cultural, and many other services that are important to children. According to the 2011 census, children and young people under 19 were 896000 or 20.9% of the total population. 10 years ago in 2001, there were about a million which is 23.74% of the total population, and 20 years earlier there were 1.2 million or 24%. In Croatia, more than 36,000 children lived in poverty in early 2011 according to social care system data, today more than 40,000 of them. Children are a generally vulnerable group and cannot wait for the situation in society and the state to improve. They also need clothes and shoes and food and medicines, they also need books, can't wait for the crisis to pass. That is why the sensitivity of the local community and the state is particularly important in recognising children's needs and rights. From the report of the Ombudsman for children, I read that 2659 new cases were opened in 2013. This is an increase of 208 cases compared to the previous year. Of the new items, 1436 relate to reports of infringements of individual rights of children and 1223 to general initiatives of the office. Individual infringements of children's rights relate most to applications of children's personal rights, issues related to parental care, violence against children and neglect of children. There are also applications related, of course, to educational rights, economic rights, violations in judicial proceedings and violations of social rights. Furthermore, there has been an increase in the application of children’s health rights, which is specifically mentioned by the Advocate General. Minor infringements related to cultural rights, security and protection rights, reporting of discrimination, and children's rights as members of the social community are represented. Reports are submitted to the highest extent by parents of children, primarily by their mother. But applications are made by children, grandparents, neighbors, anonymous applicants, institutions and other categories. As for acts related to reports of violence and neglect of domestic violence, a total of more than 140 children were exposed. Applications related to violence in educational institutions included 158 children, and 114 children were exposed to other forms of violence. These other forms include violence via the Internet. Violence on the Internet is something we need to pay more attention to. Often, they are not really aware of the problems that arise just as children surf the Internet, especially through social networks. This year, we held a thematic debate in Parliament on the theme "Media literacy for the safety of children in the world of media and the Internet". The debate was initiated by the former Ombudsman for children and the debate was held with the support of the three parliamentary committees. However, although we have reached some consensus there, we have all talked about how important it is to educate children for media literacy especially in the 21st century. But I must say that this thematic debate remained on it. The lawyer made some proposals at the end of the debate. It was accepted, however, I no longer heard a single word, not a single word of it, even though we, as advocates there, advocated and said that we would do something. I think that's exactly the part that we should specifically talk about in the context of children and children's rights. Perhaps many times we are not even aware of the dangers arising from favorite children’s parties such as watching television or using these social networks. Sometimes we are not even aware that there are more problems in Croatia whose consequences are media consumption. As for violence on the Internet and mobile phone, the Ombudsman’s report said that in 2013, 12 individual violations of children’s rights to protection against violence on the Internet and mobile, and eight reports of violence among children, while in four of them about violence of adults against children. In most cases, applications relate to insulting and mocking through social networks. On Facebook, hate groups are created that are directed against individual children. There's a lot of problems coming right from the net. The problem is definitely identity. We often hear about identity theft especially when it comes to celebrities. However, there is also a theft of identity when it comes to children. The other day, I was talking to a boy who had just finished his 4th grade and he told me that most of his friends had an open profile on the social network, but that it wasn't just a problem, but that kids inside the class were opening profiles on behalf of other kids and she didn't even know it. No matter what. On the Facebook page when registering, or opening a profile, it says that a person under the age of 13 cannot have a profile, children mean have it and Facebook has announced that it will allow them to do so. All of this suggests that it is necessary to act more actively and to monitor a problem that may not seem to be a problem. I see here a significant role in educational institutions that should teach children to take a critical look at what is offered to them but to understand what they are getting into. The child does not have enough knowledge to resist external influences and protect himself. That is why we need further education both for children and for parents and for all of us. Although media education is one of the recommendations of the European Union regarding education, our educational system lags behind these standards. Today's children in the class of Croatian language from 1st to 8th grade have a small part of the course relating to media culture, but the backbone of that part is film culture and theatre. The smaller part is dedicated to the media and the Internet. The problem, however, is that schools are not equipped either. The other day I accidentally met my primary school class in Gracani in tram and I asked her about media culture since she was a Croatian teacher she said that I would be conducting a media culture when only a month ago we got a TV receiver in the class. My colleagues and colleagues wonder if a Zagreb school does not have the basic equipment to conduct children's education, how it will have one school in a municipality in Bjelovar-Belogorska, Krapina-Zagorje or another county. But if I didn’t just talk about the Internet, I’d like to look at another problem, and this concerns children who are found in illicit night outs. The problem remains current and children under 16 are found in parks, clubs and cafes. The data we have in the report that came from the Ministry of the Interior shows that the police were handling 2488 cases. Even 240 children were under 14 years old. Fortunately, we see in the report that the percentage decreases, it certainly encourages but there is still a lot of work to be done so that the situation should be satisfactory. There should be as many police actions aimed at protecting children from drinking, drug consumption and the like. It's enough to take a walk in a store on Friday or Saturday night, see how many young people are standing in line for the cash register to pay for a bottle of black wine or another alcoholic drink. And finally, colleagues and colleagues, I conclude, children are exposed to various forms of violations of their rights, yet no level and effective protection of children against violence in all places and in all forms. Today, I mentioned only some of them listed in this report. The big job is on all of us to protect the most vulnerable, and that is why a greater involvement of the entire society is needed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81523	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81524	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, I really congratulate you on your discussion, you have touched in principle the main problems relating to children and probably you as a young person and you have a certain sensitivity to this. And I'm going to tell you something as the mother of one already grown-up son and I believe there are others among us who have grown-up children. What's going on, I'm going to keep going fast, which means, here's another time I need to repeat that God forbid a minister of education like this happens again. And you mentioned yourself: school equipment, so the termination of schools of music, dance, art and all other schools in smaller municipalities, why it abolishes them because it says no money is needed. It's just that kids who go to two schools in elementary school are regular and regular any other school, they're demoted, they're simply told it's not worth anything. Okay. They go because they want to because they want to, because they want to end 6th year of basic music or some other school and they're there. Because what are they offered? They're offered the Internet, Facebook and Twitter. Who can they look up to? In politicians who, because of this assembly, are on Twitter right now, report how many we are or how many of us are missing, comment. To politicians who comment on what they do, where they drink, how they brush their teeth, who they look up to? That's what And then what do they do? They spend 3.4 hours on these Twitters, Facebook and the Internet. And if they knew, that is, that is, if their efforts were to be rewarded, then those children would go to sports and other schools that they would attend because they knew that their efforts would be rewarded. This is how the message of effort doesn't pay off, do something else but don't bother.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81525	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica Martina Banić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81526	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade twilight, I wouldn't quite agree that the effort isn't worth it no matter what. Maybe educational institutions don't always do what we want and whatever we're not satisfied with the Minister of Education so far. [[Stupid Zgrebec: Comrades of the twilight so now listen to the reply to the replica.]] I still don’t think children should give up or that their parents should support them for all other activities, it’s a music school, it’s a foreign - language school. Of course, I am of the opinion that this should be valued when children move to a higher level of education, although unfortunately it is not. As for Facebook, social networks, this part that I brought out in my debate, I have to say it turns out that there are no injuries like that because they are very small figures that show it. However, when the D.A. said I believe that still people are not aware enough that there is an attorney's office but are still not aware enough to see where all areas are actually being violated by children's rights. I mean, children's rights on social networks are broken every day by pedophilia, published by a variety of photos that shouldn't be published, videos and all that. I think the Attorney General's Office for Children has absolutely to react more strongly and react daily on this matter. We've already mentioned here in this assembly that case from Vinkovci where girls from 14-15 years of age were used. That's what's left of it, there's a little mention, nothing further. I think we should all get more involved in this segment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81527	Dubravko Bilic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81528	I thank the esteemed vice president. Well, here's my colleague Banic, you've actually made a nice detection, and there's actually a man who can't agree with what you've said. I'd just look back at two things, this one short thing that you've really focused on, and that's a question of toxins actually by our young generations to the media and modern media access aids and media content that's getting bigger and bigger. And I'm glad that here is the Attorney General's Office more and more active in this area, but so are many other institutions that have recognized this big problem and are increasingly committed to it. Of course, there are problems and actions and disclosures of the perpetrators, but here's hoping to improve it in the future. What I would really like to highlight, and you saw it well at first, and that's the question of poverty. The issue of poverty as currently the biggest threat not only to children's rights but also to human rights in general, because here we are witnessing that not only in Croatia is difficult but in all of Europe too. The European Commission issued a statement on poverty as a potential major threat to the achievement of children's rights not only in Croatia, but throughout Europe and in far richer countries. When you said that here at your school in Gracans only recently they got a TV set, I think it is the most embarrassing of the Bandic mayors who crossed the wrong zero somewhere, and added the other one and that the problem remained unsolved. The local community can do much good, and my modest city will buy all parents this year's textbooks and thus help them move easier into this educational cycle because education is the foundation of this society and we have to do everything to make it so.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81529	Replication response, Martina Banic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81530	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Bilic, I agree with what you've been up against for my debate. It is certainly commendable that your community will obtain textbooks for all children. I mean, speaking of those schools, I also agree that education is the key and most important part of the life of every young man. But here, when I mentioned that at my elementary school, the kids were given a television set a month ago, it's not just about a television receiver. I believe that you are aware that most children in the city of Zagreb and in elementary schools and kindergartens wear toilet paper, hand towels, absolutely everything, absolutely everything, and it seems to me that the poverty that we are unfortunately all surrounded by together affects most those who are the most sensitive and most vulnerable in this society, and these are children.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81531	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists, colleague Nenad Dance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81532	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, lawyer with co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. This report is a faithful picture of how children's rights are respected, detected problems, and is the basis for building a system that best protects children's rights. It is necessary to do everything to enable children to have a happy and secure childhood that allows them to grow up and become a pillar of society and the future of this country, not to seek their future elsewhere outside the Republic of Croatia. The Government's opinion on the prosecutor's report on children is neither positive nor negative. The opinion consists of a series of justifications which wish to be pointed out by the Advocate-General that they are incomplete, unfounded, inappropriate, etc. The Government’s opinion on this report, which is comprehensively and in detail written on page 251, can only be seen as hiding from its unhappiness and irresponsibility. The question is therefore how many warnings, recommendations and proposals are being taken seriously and how strong the will in society is to solve existing problems. The non-resolvement of the problem calls into question the Ombudsman's institute and the concept of protection of children's rights. Adults need to help their children to gain responsibility. If we do not help them, then we are irresponsible and are responsible for irresponsible conduct toward others. We have completely forgotten our obligations and responsibility, and now we are surprised that children are calling for their rights, and they deny their obligations and every responsibility. The Ombudsman points to violation of children's rights such as personal rights violations, children's rights as members of the social community, education, health rights, socio-economic, cultural rights, judicial and protective rights. It points to the security of the accident and the threatening environment of this discrimination. For young people, the world remains, is one of the favorite examples in our people, but in order for young people in the future to truly become people we can rely on to rely on, it takes a significant engagement of all of us, those who raise them, and so do they. Of the 701 applications relating to personal rights of violation of the right to live with parents and parental care, 371 applications shall be submitted. Instead of family being the place where children are safest, they become places where the child’s life is becoming increasingly difficult and burdensome. The problem of children divorced parents where one parent deny the right to see another child or children. Parents who neglect their children late for social gatherings, avoid weekends, do not stick to captains, further traumatize children. The data received indicate a common and broad area of violation of children's rights to protection against all forms of violence. Of the 218 reported violence against children, 85 refer to domestic violence that exposed a total of 142 children. The violence in educational institutions involved 76 reports involving 158 children, and 9 reports of violence in other institutions that caused 13 children to suffer. The remaining reports refer to all other forms and places of violence including the Internet exposed to a total of 114 children. Internet and TV distract children from traditional outdoor activities. It is the area where children spend most of their time, which is largely hidden from both parents and authorities, and of course there is a great danger. The pre-protective relationship of parents also contributes to a lower level of activity that would be triggered by an adventurous spirit. Without encouraging them to try something new, there is a danger for children to enter a boring routine that will not further encourage them to succeed in what they are doing or to gain new experiences. Emotional abuse affects children very deeply. If it is longer it can cause stronger and stronger consequences than physical abuse. It is children who need love, encouragement, and commendation from their parents to feel happy and to grow up to be confident. If adults are constantly threatening a child or are angry, sarcastic, and critical in children, they are creating a sense of distress, and they begin to look at themselves as if they are not worth it and do not deserve to be loved. All of this can have serious consequences for the child’s personality and can create major difficulties in forming successful adult relationships. Emotional abuse refers to cases where parents permanently miss out on showing love and attention to their children. Ignorement can have harmful consequences for the development of a child as well as for abuse. It also presents a dissatisfaction with the child’s basic needs such as adequate food, clothing, housing conditions, medical care, schooling, and a parent or guardian has the opportunity to satisfy them. The neglect also represents leaving alone at home children who are too young to take care of themselves or abandoned children in cars at high temperatures where we often witness in these very seasons. Giving children inadequate supervision, neglecting the emotional needs of a child, the child does not listen and does not take into account his needs and his wishes. Educational rights, lack of kindergartens and appropriate programmes, inequality of the conditions in which children attend preschool programmes are the problems of preschool age. In primary education, the main problems are the inability to move children from one primary school to another, to disorganise extended school stay and to avoid transport or to unadjusted organisation of school transport to the needs of students. In secondary education, the main problems are the way to make, content and apply decisions on the elements and criteria for selecting candidates for enrolment in high school, and the organisation and financing of high school transport. In the diet of children, it shocks the fact that there are more and more children who come to school hungry, so they steal food from other students. Besides being more and more hungry children, there are more and more parents who are pressured by poverty who can no longer pay bills for the diet of children at school. Children in the family of poorer social status have the right to a free lunch, but they ask the center of school to have an extra meal because they are aware that hungry children are the only meals they eat during the day. The situation is very worrying. Problems related to the achievement of children's, social and economic rights were represented in a total of 145 cases and an increase of 7% compared to 2012. The impact of the severe economic situation and the economic crisis is also reflected in the part of the report on the rights of children to support and on social and economic crises, and on protection against violence and neglect. In fact, the lack of material resources, and the occupation of parents with existential issues often affect the overall quality of family relationships, as well as child rearing and behaviour. Due to the lack of pay, cancellation, endless job-seeking for the result, there are an increasing number of families who become social cases overnight. This has a traumatic effect on children who have been deprived of their rights and needs for health, education and culture. We therefore expect greater social sensitivity from the state in ensuring measures and programmes aimed at children and socially surrounded families and more effective protection of children's property rights. Applications of the right to an appropriate standard of living relate to procedures of enforcement, operation, existential endangerment of children associated with threatening housing conditions in which families live, and the inability to maintain. Cultural rights and free time for children. Love for sport is a particularly useful feature that children should cherish whether it is just an occasional hakl with friends or a sport inside a sports club. Involving in organised sports activities that are suitable for profit can have a particularly favourable impact on the development of a young person and instill in them some valuable qualities such as responsibility, tenacity, teamwork ability and others. A common parental error is also an excessive concern for the child’s sports success, which can exert a heavy burden on the child and cause inexplicable consequences. The choice of sports should take care of the mental and physical characteristics of the child. The main factor in this decision should be the child’s desire, but the choice should also take into account the physical characteristics of the child. After all, it's important for a child to hang out and have fun. Sports should not be over-spartanic, and children should be able to go out and hang out. About judicial protection of children's rights. The right to protection against sexual exploitation and abuse of child protection, witnesses and injured persons in judicial proceedings indicates an insufficient number of experts, and the lack of coordination of experts in various justice systems, police, social care involved in organising child protection of victims and witnesses. It concerns the inappropriate conduct of police officers, state attorneys and judges when examining children of victims or witnesses, exposure to multiple trials, lengthy court proceedings and lack of quality assistance and support. The Ombudsman for children as an independent specialised institution for the protection, monitoring and promotion of children's interests under the law is authorised to warn, propose and make recommendations. These recommendations point to the need to achieve a higher level of protection of children's rights and interests, so the Croatian Labour Club - Work parties will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81533	Maria Lugaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81534	My dear colleague, I agree with a part of what you said, but I would like to warn you of something that has been repeated through the debates and today you said in your debate and in the debate through committees. You said, I quote, that the biggest violation of children's rights in education was the inability to move from school to school, to transport organisations, to organise extended stay, to transport, to change teachers and so on. A careful reading of the Ombudsman’s report on children says that this was the most application. We have one methodically to say the problem that we still have, and we've talked about it on committees with the D.A., we don't make a difference when someone submits whether it's a violation of the child's rights or not. Most of these education things aren't children's rights violations. The teacher was changing the second one at the maternity ward, and the original one's coming back, and now everyone's complaining about why the teacher's changing. So, it's not a violation of children's rights and we have a report and we're introducing here as an application. The same thing is about the organization of extended stay and the like. Yes, of course, these applications are illustrating, talking about the expectations of parents and children from the system but this is not about violations of children’s rights. Well, in some ways, it's just a correction that what you've said is that the reports I repeat can be illustrative and make conclusions, but it's not about any of these cases of child rights violations. And it's mostly not children's rights violations, it's the consequences of organisational circumstances like this or that. We talked to the D.A. and on the parent committee to sort of develop a monitoring system in time, in fact, what happens when that application happens. Is it simply forwarded to the competent authority for some normal treatment or is it treated as a violation of the rights of children who then has their consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81535	Nenad dances, the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81536	Thank you. Well, we can agree well on that, but the tendency and my debate is that it means that your children are allowed to have the same conditions and stay at school and come to school because it doesn't matter when a child travels or a child when most of his day has to spend something on teaching at school, something on an extended stay at that school. With their discussion, and with your replica, they may agree, but the goal is to encourage that these rights are also made possible and respected. Now, whether they're violations of rights or not, it may depend on how anyone looks on their side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81537	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU colleague Ljiljana Cvetović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81538	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, esteemed attorneys with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. The 2013 Children's Attorney General's Report determines not exactly the optimistic and really difficult position of our children. Adversaries of injuries arising from the family relationship and adverse situations of family life, followed by violations of children's rights related to violence by family, peer and educational institutions. These violations of children's rights have been warned for years and are constantly demanding greater involvement of institutions to take more effective measures and activities. Therefore, it concerns the fact that there are no major shifts for the better. The question arises as to how many warnings are given by the Office of the Advocates, Recommendations and Proposals at all take seriously and how strong the will in society is to solve existing problems and how much this debate will affect. Children's rights as well as their overall development are further threatened by the poverty of the population. In protecting the right to live with parents and parental care, there was a lack of counselling to provide advisory services and support to parents and children on issues of parental care and family relations. This role was intended for family centres but the final proposal of the Family Law that we discussed earlier was abolished. In the education of children extended stay in some primary schools and is further organized only for first grade students although the need for a stay is increasingly pronounced. Transport to school is poorly organised although the legal obligation of founders is to finance and organise the transport of primary school students. It concerns the announced closure of schools in places and islands in which the school attends a small number of students as well as the termination of so-called. small district schools so compulsory primary education becomes even more distant and unreachable to children. In the high schools of appeal, the Ombudsman refers to the lack of staff and illegality, unprofessionalness and incompetence in the treatment of educational and educational workers and other staff towards children, the lack of psychologists and education-rehabilitation professionals. Discussions on health care continue with opposition from certain associations, some parents, church authorities, and some educational workers in certain parts of the programme. I have an example from the City of Rijeka from where I come from, there's no such dispute between school and parents. So now I'm going to tell you how they are organized, health education takes place a total of 12 classes during the school year and is conducted by a school doctor, psychologist and educator in a class community class. The gender equality and sexual responsibility of children took place in a way that the children wrote questions that they were interested in, and the school principal gave this lecture with a gynecologist. In the protection of health and the continued resistance of parents to vaccinated children, a lack of pediatricians, child psychiatrists, orthodontists, lack of logos, medical staff has not been educated to work with children with developmental difficulties as well as to work with children victims of violence. Parents face the inability to treat severely ill children abroad, inadequate treatment conditions for children are suffering from severe malignancies, and all of this is read regularly in the media. Children of unemployed parents or parents with very low incomes, children of multi-member families and single-parent families and children with developmental difficulties, children affected by performances and occupancy are the hardest hit by social rights. There have also been irregularities and violations of the rights of minors from working relationships, and the illegal work of minors. Child victims of violence continue to experience the long-term duration of court proceedings, multiple examinations of sexually abused children, inadequate premises in a police study that lasts several hours and sensational media reporting. It still doesn't seem much to the problem of missing children, the loss of children in traffic, the dangers of playgrounds and playgrounds. Children are very much used for advertising, for promotions and also for political purposes, they are placed on the flyers of associations and manipulated by them. In judicial protection when children are victims, witnesses or participants of proceedings, children are still not provided with the necessary support or are familiar with their rights. The lawyer cites the example, the child was the victim of sexual abuse at the age of 3 years, and until the power of the verdict lasted 7 years, and in the child's 14 years it was restarted. It concerns the inappropriate conduct of police officers, state attorneys and judges when examining children of victims or witnesses, the exposure of the child to multiple trials, the length of the court proceedings and the lack of quality of support. There is still an insufficient number of experts working to protect children in all areas, they are not provided with continuous professional training, nor systematic support, and decision-making takes too long, institutions do not have a quick and effective response. There is insufficient investment in the content and activities of the free time of children and young people, which shows a lack of understanding of the importance of these rights in the life of the child especially in smaller places, areas of special state care and islands. The question is repeated as to how this is possible and who has said in the application of the Convention on the Rights of Children, Legislative Regulations, Protocols, Strategy. Every day we learn from the media about violations of children's rights. First, parental mistrust in the vaccine and refusal to vaccinate children as well as resistance to health care in schools, suggest lack of parental education, no systematic education from foreign institutions, so parents are similar to manipulation by various associations. After that, media monitoring of divorces and personal contacts with children of celebrities violates the rights of a child, stigmatizes and turns himself into a victim and gives him far-reaching consequences that should be banned. In view of growing poverty, children in schools are inadmissible. Then, in the sole property, basic rights of children prescribed by the Convention are violated. The following is the inadmissible conditions in which children are treated with malignancies, the treatment of severely ill children is resolved by donations and contributions from citizens instead of the country's systematic solution. The situation of children in court procedures needs immediate protection and children exposed to violence should not be further abused by long-term proceedings. And lastly, the ride to school has to be solved. It is amazing that children are walking for miles to school today or to the first bus stop where the lawyer sets specific examples. In the protection of children's rights, there is a lack of regular information from parents, parental education, counselling for parents at national and regional level after the abolition of family centres, then permanent education of professionals working with children, the number of institutions that provide professional assistance to children and the permanent presence of a lawyer in the media. In order to improve children's rights and ensure the well-being of children we propose, the Ombudsman can hardly protect children's rights at the level of recommendations, proposals, public gatherings, without other mechanisms, so it is urgent to amend the Law on the Ombudsman for children and to give the Office of Advocates adequate child protection mechanisms. Then, the National Plan for the Rights and Interests of Children from 2006 to 2012 as the National Strategy Plan for Children has ceased to apply and a new National Strategic Document for children with clearly defined objectives, measures, activities and implementation deadlines for areas of importance for the rights and welfare of children should be adopted in haste. The Council for Children of the Government of the Republic of Croatia should submit a report to the Croatian Parliament on the application of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and of other international acts relating to the protection and promotion of the rights of the child and to reports on the reasons for which, in accordance with the Ombudsman’s report, the children’s rights to children continue to increase, as well as in previous years, infringements of children’s rights in the Republic of Croatia. It is also mandatory to participate the Ombudsman for children in law-making working groups in order to protect the rights, interests and welfare of the family and children. Now he was not involved in a family law-making group, which is inadmissible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81539	Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81540	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Ljiljana, I agree with you that parents need education as far as raising their children are concerned, but I can't agree with you when you say that family centers have been abolished. Family centers under the Social Care Act are not abolished but are only transformed, they have become construction units of the Centre for Social Care, and in this way they will actually be in these centers, that is to say, in this design unit, implement preventive programs, education will be conducted, and so will the counseling center, let us call it a parent counseling facility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81541	I didn't see, do you want to answer? On behalf of the SDP representative club, counterpart Dubravko Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81542	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, attorneys with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Here, at first, let me just say that as a SDP club, we support this report, of course, and that we support both the attorney general and the attorney general's work because everything that the D.A.'s office has done in these 10 years is really very much, and there is still a big and important job in front of it, and we all need to give full support that these projects, child protection programs, are being implemented. Today, I had the honour of participating in the Children's Forum held here in the assembly and I must say that at the very beginning after the first debate of children's representatives, so to speak, I have decided to completely change and ignore this exhibit of mys and actually adapt it to the subject we're talking about from a child's perspective, so to speak. Since children today have shown us what the truth is, dedicated to child rights, from the warning that they do not have in their city, not only sewerage, but also the plumbing, that they want to warn many other questions, and here are the questions about the weight of school bags and the question of school textbooks. What's important for starting to point out is, here's 10 years has actually been since the founding and beginning of the attorney's office for children and it's really, 10.5 years and it's really a time that's been done a lot. Perhaps it is indeed one of the greatest achievements and the establishment of these regional offices in Split, Osijek and Rijeka, and perhaps here in the future should work to promote these people who work in these offices, to some small regional, not Commissioners, but regional commissioners who could then be promoted by the media, should be recognized as guardians of children's rights in their regions and indeed, what the lawyer told us about the problems that are interesting to children in certain regions, because I am sure that children from, conditionally speaking, are not tortured by abuse on the Internet or on the phone because those cell phones, smart phones or not have, but are being tortured by other problems that are also to be talked about. Often, when we talk about the lawyer's job and misread her job, people tend to think that the attorney has the power to change the social care center's solutions, let's just say take it off the google or some other malpractice or bad information service, or that in some other way she can solve the problem quickly because when we talk about children's rights we really need to talk about fast resolution. Today, the children of Varazdin set an example for us of their initiative to reduce the weight of school bags, and they gave us a fine explanation of what time it is for children. The children who started in the Children's Forum are already students at college today, and when we talk about protecting children's rights, we often shouldn't be prisoners of the Law on Administrative Procedures and deadlines because if domestic violence happens Friday night, it should be resolved Friday night or Saturday night, and not wait for 30 or 60 so I don't know how many days because the consequences really remain permanent. What the Advocate General and the Attorney General have done over the past 10 years, and this has promoted the rights of the child and warned of all violations and, of course, in cooperation with the public authorities involved in creating the right, better, more acceptable solutions for our children. I will only briefly as the children today have actually warned us about some questions that my colleagues before me have already touched but I think the Ombudsman has made it very clear that all the important issues affecting the rights of children. I think at this point the most important thing is to talk about the recession and poverty that affect many parents, which automatically affects many children and me at this point seems to be the greatest threat of children's rights that can move from the right to education to the right to treatment, and it really needs to be talked about. And here we can involve everyone from the top of the central government to a unit of local self-government that can react quickly, much faster and in an adequate way to help address certain problems associated with poverty. The children warned us today that already a large number of children are knocking on the poverty threshold, or are there somewhere, and here's a colleague Banic said how many children actually live in poverty because they are frightening numbers. Scary figures when today in this modern world of smartphones and investment in expensive technologies we are still lagging behind those fundamental rights but also the fundamental obligations that we as a society have to implement because it is the social equalization of all our inhabitants especially children. We must not forget that today, in this rich and rich world, we have not yet eradicated poverty in Africa or Europe. Here's the talk of children starving in Europe who are really ashamed of our civilization, not just shame for our societies. We also mentioned the question of school books, the question of the availability of teaching tools in general at school, and all of these are problems that greatly affect the quality of education and the availability of information to children who will later turn them into creative young and mature people who will change the world for the better. Another question in fact began the match at the World Cup, and the question of athletes' children, i.e. the protection of young athletes and athletes who prey on such managers as hungry easy earners, make illegal contracts with underage children, and then use them their whole lives later on. We have had such examples in Croatia, and of course many of them in Europe and these are things to talk about and to be dealt with. What's very important for the small environments I come from, which is a matter of paediatric protection. The pediatricians are very few, not all cities have them, and those who have them must, because of the number of children with 8, 9, 10 or 12 years of age, write children out of their hospitals and transfer them to medical family medicine, which is a really big problem, and no matter what side of the assembly we sit on, we have to admit it and we have to deal with it someday. And what's strongest and most often said, and that's a question of the media and, above all, when we talk about the media it's the Internet, we stopped talking about television in that way than children are increasingly available Internet, social networks, social networking profiles, and crowds, a lot of dangers lurking in that world. There's a lot of talk about it, so I'm not going to repeat myself now and deal with this problem, but it's not a local problem. So Google is not a Croatian company, Facebook is not a Croatian company and defender but other services also face major obstacles when they have to solve these problems that are related to international laws with slowness and difficulties in communicating with these centres in Ireland, America or elsewhere, and the problems not only cannot be solved quickly but are duplicated, triplicate with astronomical speed and damages that occur are really great. And what we also talked about today, which is a question of peer violence that we must admit and which in schools, above all in schools but also outside of school, of course there are and we should work on it through the education system and teachers, teachers certainly talk a lot about it. However, all together we must admit once that it is not a responsibility to raise children only at school, which we all love to say very much, but first and foremost the family and family must set certain standards that are to be followed. And in the end, I'd like to thank you, but here's the work of the Attorney General. And I especially like this young network of counselors who rightly encourages and includes children who, in their own skin, are having problems with their peers and then through this network of young advisors who are going to re-election, so the three-year term has passed, now a new generation is going to come in and create a network of well-aware young people, and this office should be particularly proud to continue to encourage the work of this and the development of this project. And what we really need to point out is the sub-capacitation of the office even though by systematicization we should have a lot more employees than there are now. They're doing a great job right now, and this statistic that we've presented, of course, on the one hand, shows how much it's done, but on the other hand it's not really complete. Because like all other agencies, like the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data where I've been, a lot of things aren't recorded, a lot is done, hardworking people answer the phone. Sometimes they lose, I mean lose under quotes, spend half their working hours talking, talking to both parents and children and institutions. But you don't put that clutch anywhere that it's done, and it's a job that these people need to be admitted to, to be commended for because they actually invest in these difficult times, but even these times when they're sub-capacitated, it's really not a metaphor for how to say it, but superhuman, sometimes superhuman efforts to meet the demands of their users, or those who call them. Here I hope that all together we will recognize the importance of the office and thus make it possible for them to increase, i.e. better budget, better functioning of everything of course on the welfare and protection of children. And once again here's the congratulatory attorney and her office, all the employees. And here's their full support. I'm sure all of us here in the Parliament are doing some further work. And what they're doing isn't really about any name or name, not to the left or to the right, but to the civilization values that we all have to be aware of, and in that we have to encourage them to do their job as best they can in these conditions. And I'm sure they'd be the happiest if that job was as small as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81543	Marijan Škurić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81544	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The esteemed colleague in your report, however, pointed out one important thing, which is that basic rights and child protection are most manifested and can also be defined locally. Well, of course you, as mayor and together as colleagues, know that essentially from their birth when we have to allow them and above all their families to be in a place where they have water, where they have sewerage, road, lighting. So that they must also be provided with health care in this area, they must be able to engage in sports, to engage in cultural activities. Of course, what we have said, and in particular you have given an emphasis on enabling education. So when we talk about education, then you said that education and that help and protection of children depend on whether some local administration is rich or poor. But I'd say that's not exactly what it's all about. We have many examples that rich cities have much worse conditions than in smaller cities or municipalities, and that is primarily a matter of perception, a matter of approach, a matter of desire, which is an argument of which we need to put emphasis on. Where there is an emphasis that development is best for us through young people if they are helped to develop and, above all, educated people have to be found for them. And in the previous debate, you said the same thing, you said that we have in a city that has 7 billion and more resources, so we don't have a TV in school, it's a big civilization flow. And in some smaller cities there are every classroom TV, every teacher has access to the Internet and has a laptop, has pills, has everything they need. And then there is really possible all those things that need to be included in what is most important and that is the protection and rights of children and the emphasis that our future depends on both children and who are primarily educated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81545	Dubravko Bilic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81546	Thank you. Well, here's fellow Skvarić you can best actually talk about these issues because you are also one of the mayors who has invested a lot in education both in his term and in earlier periods. Education is the foundation of every community especially small environment that must find strength in spite of all that education is the basis for development. Because without education, there's just no step forward. And sometimes it seems to me, in fact, that the small environments as much as we do in the big city glasses know how to perceive them as lags or as some kind of peripheral, ruby, rural ones actually invest a lot in protecting us, in achieving this right of children to education. What is evidence even worse is our Varazdin County, which for many years almost all schools 95% of schools have been working in one-way teaching, informationals like here is a media form of media education in the class since the first grade. In many other ways, too, it strives to enable children to be realized as young, creative, talented people. So it's not just about money, it's about access, in those dots that are lined up in order that's first and last. Sometimes it's football first, and sometimes it can be children's first and best.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81547	Martina Banic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81548	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Bilic, I agree with your debate. You have particularly well explained this part about poverty and the impact it has on children later on, but of course as you do in your discussions I know that you mention media and this violence and everything else that children are exposed to through the media and I agree with you that everything that happens through social networks takes a long time to solve such a problem. However, what can certainly be done and what needs to be done is education and education of teachers and teachers in schools. Because what's going on? It happens to us that one class from class 1 to grade 4 opens a group, e.g. Facebook 2.b and thus communicate with children. So it itself encourages children who are much less than 13 years old to open their profiles and thus communicate. I know that from reliable sources because just a few days ago a mother told me and she just called the class and she said it's not possible, so you kids are encouraging them to do what they shouldn't do. So when we talk about media education, and you've also mentioned it now, we don't have an educational frame that would even carry out that media education. That's a very big problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81549	Dubravko Bilic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81550	Thank you. Well, here you are really right, actually you can't be more right than you are. The problem that arises in front of teachers, so we have two categories, we have teachers who haven't come into play with time to say so, and then the children train them, help them, children who of course, children of individual parents who, at 6-7 years of age, know absolutely everything about Facebook, how to register, how many years you have to write that you have to go to those teachers of younger or teachers, not to be discriminatory, who from some kind of own blindness to say so to modern media, drags a lot, a lot too early and children into that world, not thinking about the consequences. The truth is, there are teachers who form class groups and then communicate with children because it's easier to send them a message this is your assignment, so what's actually scary and I agree with you that education and in this field must be much stronger, much stronger and must be reached not only by children, of course, but also by teachers who in some way have to lead children in this segment, no matter how difficult it is sometimes, how strange it is for them sometimes. But those general human principles are actually general human principles and they must always be valid, both in mutual communication and in the conduct of live, in the living world, law, so on and in the virtual, online world. Unfortunately, however, we are not aware of that. Maybe it's just us, because we're not looking and we don't want to get extra education.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81551	We're moving on to an individual debate. Comrade Goran Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81552	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Respected counselors for children with co-workers, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. So this counsel's report for children tells us quite a lot about the situation when it comes to the protection of children's rights, about the work of the lawyer herself, but most of all it says, more about the lawyer's work is about the state of society. He's talking about political elites, he's talking about us. Well, here's the D.A. didn't hesitate, not even discreetly, but indiscreetly, but very politely to criticize both us and may you and rightly did it and you need it. As a rule, we're sticking to more or less of the subject of who's competent for what, although there are those who are competent for everything under quotes, but there are topics that we shouldn't bypass at all. And that's why I think, although I'm sticking to the rule of economic issues, when it comes to children, we can't go around this subject, no matter what time and under what conditions we're talking about it. And why can't we? Because many have never yet been able to define a clear definition of wealth, but if there is a wealth of society and human wealth, then they are children. The greatest treasure there can be. And if it's the greatest treasure in any way and it's not protected, then we have to do everything we can to get rid of it. And we're witnessing from this report and all the reports we've reported so far, and I think we're making progress in the reports, but we're not making progress in removing and institutionally solving the problem of protecting children, we're not making progress here, and the children are being threatened on several sides, even institutionally threatened. But here's a chance to talk about it too. It's been a state graduation recently. Imagine the stress it is and then a month wait for the results of the state's graduation and that no one or at least institutionally cares about it. But that's the problem we have to solve, we can't have kids with that kind of burden to welcome summer holidays and prepare for college papers. We all know how hard their programs are. Imagine waiting for them 6 exams in college in a year, and 14 or 16 classes in high school. It doesn't make sense! So many literature books can't carry bags, and they don't read the book at all. That's the problem. Children are not protected if they are not properly educated and not educated, and there are difficulties and I am sure that more has been read by Antun Branko Simic or Krleže 30 years ago than today. Today there's actually a virtual, online reading but it's not read and there's no communication directly. There's no Internet, no social network can replace communications with personnel, it can't. Unfortunately, here are professional workers who sometimes prefer social communication through social networks rather than personal communication. The children are at risk in the playgrounds, the equipment is broken. They're threatened in schools, ceilings fall. I've never seen anyone answer for anything like that no matter what time it happened. It is obvious that there are wonderful in the system of education of people and that it rests on most and top professionals and beautiful people who when children leave their homes they raise them. But there are also those who can't work with children. Let's detect them, let's do something legal and eliminate them so they don't have any contact with children. They're being threatened by the elderly, unfortunately. Imagine those who abuse children. Well, I can't imagine anyone being able to rape a child, but that's what they do. And what are we waiting for with 40-year sentences for those or life sentences or maximum sentences? What are we waiting for? We're waiting to raise everyone's voice, but I expect the child's attorney to raise those checkpoints a little bit more, even though you've just arrived, so you have time for the future. But we're going over it. So why can't a pedophile register be introduced in Croatia, if there is a register of tax debtors, a registry of defenders, and this can't be published. We can't know who's threatening our children. Scary that someone rapes a girl or a boy and we can't know who he is, even under initials, or can't, and he's dangerous. It's an elemental accident, it's an atomic bomb of such people, destroying our future. Unfortunately, children are endangering each other and fighting each other and harassing each other especially through these social networks. We were witnesses last year that a girl couldn't get into college because her ex-boyfriend took a pin out of college. And then in such a case, the institutions failed even to respond to correct such an injustice. Not injustice, but a terrible act. Which is the worst and parents are endangering their children. Sometimes with their overambition, and sometimes with their negligence, they abandon children, and that's more than obvious. The truth is that this poverty that you have indicated has greatly contributed to such a relationship, because where greater frustrations arise if parents cannot provide their children with those basic living conditions, and there are such cases. But then we'll go back to institutional conditions. Is it possible that as billions of kunas are spent on various NGOs today, we still have children with no electricity, no lighting? They have to study under a candle, and there are. They don't have sewers, they don't have water, and they have water. Inadmissible, inadmissible for the 21st century, inadmissible for Croatia. And endangering themselves with nighttime forbiddens, endangering alcohol, endangering smoking. I was amazed the other day in front of a high school where two minutes to eight hours still stands fast 50 students and students and last smokes pulls and throws at the front door of high school and enters the last minute of school and no one reacts. They're also intoxicating. I've had recently, I've had recently, fortunately there's a school of phenomenal. One whole class had not recently participated in the graduation celebration because they were afraid of those others who went to Bundeck's drinking and breaking, so they went to other arrangements because it's nice to have the kids have fun. But it's dangerous if they're endangering the lives of themselves and others because of it. Let's just remember how bad the victims are. But what has become the greatest danger lately, and I don't know if it can be so inspired that the vow of silence is brought between us, and that's how dangerous it is to radiate a cell phone for all of us and for children in particular. There's a cloak of lies. Disease, a new modern disease of youth is testicular cancer. That's what you keep quiet about. Lives are in danger because of cell phones in their pockets. No one's responding. Is that all I can pay for, can all the associations, all the media, all pay for everyone to keep quiet about it. But please don't keep your mouth shut about it anymore. At least you'll have the support of those of us who have stayed here lately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81553	Dunja Špoljar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81554	Thank you very much, Vice President. So, you said in one part of your exposure that there was almost no more lecturers in schools or that it had turned into some kind of virtual teaching or virtual conversation with literary content. But I have to deny you here and say that the lecture is still an irreplaceable part of the course of literature, i.e. Croatian language, both in primary and secondary schools. And that children must come to life as soon as possible with a culture of reading, that is, the basic human need to experience new ones. On all teachers, and so on me, I take part in this responsibility, is to create this love and habit and maintain it. It's neither a short-term nor an easy job. But the results can be amazing. So to create a young, valuable being who will consult beautiful literature and thus create parameters for future life, not force but motivate, not expose, but lead, and not criticize, but adapt and adapt. And that's what's important, let's not forget, kids do what they see. If a child comes to school and seven years of age has not seen a parent or any householder who has had a book in his hand, if the child does not see his parent's entire primary school that he read, believe me, the school cannot bear responsibility on its own and neither can highly motivated teachers who are educated and aware of this task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81555	Goran Maric, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81556	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Well, I agree, I said something like that and you just said it a little differently. The lecture even took a higher form, but it's a question of how to conduct and control. And I understand when someone from a personal corner who works hard, maybe from a broader perspective, can't even see, but usually kids don't read the books they're given. They read short forms from the Internet, they borrow each other, and that's what they all say. Of course, parents are the most important in raising children and, of course, that all children do is do what they see at home. But I'm not speaking from my experience, not from any individual, but generally speaking, following what children do. I've got one flaw maybe, I come in front of school and watch. I go to school, and I watch, and I ask the kids, and I talk, and I'm interested. My kid doesn't know that I'm sitting in a car watching them come in, or going in or out of school for the last minute. If I were the headmaster in front of most schools, it'd be different than it is. It's been released from the children too much. But of course most of them do what they see at home. If he doesn't read, no one at home will. But doesn't he feel like children by the way he communicates, by literacy? Look at their handwriting. No one has a handwriting anymore because it's all done on the Internet. They don't know how to talk, they don't know how to write an article, they don't know how to do it. The honor of exceptions, but generally speaking has changed a lot and is shortened and is looking for a more modern way to overcome all of this. When they don't have a midterm grade, who won't take advantage of it? They won't take advantage of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81557	Tatjana Shimac-Bonačić, here are your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81558	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Madam Attorney with your associate. So how many of us here may have been able to come to your office with a nice cup of coffee to discuss this report, and I'll say the same this morning when we had a meeting of our children who was great where we should have heard them and unfortunately there were few parliamentary representatives, but on the other hand there was no one. So much for the interest in children's rights. I've been following this report for years, and the fact is that when we look at the report, that's actually what's happening on the ground. It is also a fact that very often the same things are repeated, but the fact that there is a improvement, at least an improvement in the legislative part that I hope will lead to improvement during the implementation. However, I agree with all children and young people that education and education should be continued and that we should not make an appointment. I also agree that there is not a very systematic education for life that includes not only knowledge but also social skills and there is almost no systematic action towards parents in terms of helping to raise and sanction parental dysfunction. This report also draws attention to the emotional and psychological manipulation of children, especially during the divorce. Well, here's a few days ago in one day's list, divorced parents kidnapped each other, the court had to protect him and put him in a home. For the first time in Croatia, a child was taken away because of parents who could not agree on who the child would live with. When I said that the fact that we expect improvement is then I must mention a new Family Law which, during parenting, will have to bring up a parental care plan in which to detail, will agree on how to take care of their children. And that's why I said I expect improvement because of the legal frameworks we've brought. As far as this part is concerned, that part is often at the expense of the child, I’m actually talking about divorce cases. Very often, children are actually weapons in the hands of their parents. I have recently read a child psychiatric practitioner, and I have seen data that is very often in such offices, very often children are such children often and that the mechanisms so far have failed to fix the situation. These children sense the emotional charges of their parents, they accept them on themselves, and of course this leads to trauma that gets even worse every day and eventually ends up in child psychiatrists. About parents as the most common violation of parental rights but children themselves are suggested to work on education in order to avoid situations and often cases of fighting for rights while avoiding obligations that inevitably bind to rights. And today it is in a few discussions, in fact it has been seen that parents have rights and are seeking these rights for their children, but very often they are not aware of their obligations, and that is why I have to stress it. I think that, we talked about child endangerment in the education system, about the threat of children in the local community in various institutions, but we need to turn around and see what is the most important basic link in the chain of growth, development, education and ultimately parenting. And according to the parents' models, of course, there's a child's work to be done. When we talk about, in fact here in the report and this year we have, and we have had previous years of child dating without parental supervision. So, of course, it's not the cafes, it's not the nightclubs, because they adapt to the market, or people come out the bigger ones, there are, of course, parents. But parents need help, they're dysfunctional families, parents need help because you have parents standing in front of the wall because they don't know what to do in those moments, so they need education, and you have parents who just won't. Such parents too need to be educated in the same way that they can participate in raising that child properly. Therefore, when we talk about parents, we must say that they function badly in three aspects. When we look at the school, according to the applications, we have pressures and mistrust in the school system. An increase in reports of domestic violence is observed, and this also indicates a lack of parenting in child rearing. Therefore, I repeat, I repeat that there is a need for a preventive programme for parents who should raise the level of knowledge about parenting and competence of parents themselves. One more thing about mental health care. I think we should talk about it. Because of all these dysfunctionalities that occur, of course, that the consequences can be damage to mental health. The concern for mental health must be made stronger and I am pleased that we are recently the Croatian Institute of Public Health, the Health Department is open, and will now be quickly opened by the department, or the center for mental health. And besides, you should also welcome the recently opened psychiatric ward for children and adolescents with a total of 10 beds now to begin. Therefore, this is very important and this is to greet because it is very important to single out children, children from adult psychiatry because of course it is a different treatment of the disease, it is different therapy, and children's psychiatry takes a whole team of employees working on the problem. I also have to mention here, when we talk about parents, about parent education, we must mention a bad constitution when one parent dominates in a family that doesn't give room for another child's growth, in this way a child can hardly experience both parents as separate personalities with their complex feelings and their mutual relationship and unfortunately such models are passed on to life. I say this as an example of the need to learn parenting, not just counselling when the pathology is already on the way or it is already present, but simply to prevent, means counselling, or education for parents so that we can prevent bad consequences for their children. So I can finally say that I accept this report, of course, that the methodology is the same, but in the beginning, the prosecutor said that she would probably change the methodology in terms of some summary of all this data. I support a network of young associates who are very important because of what we have seen today, we can, if we hear them and see them, get all the needs from them, because they can give us the impulses of their needs to help them. And in the end, when we talked about child health care, it was then mentioned today and orthodontics, and vaccination and availability of health care, here I say and in this sense there is a shift because a health center has been created at the public health office, and now a mental health centre will be established with those changes that I mentioned at the beginning of the Family Law. I think we are on the right track to actually work on better children's rights in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81559	Thank you. We have a single replica reported. Dear Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81560	Thank you very much. My colleague Bonačić, I would be with you today, with the children if you hadn't replaced the two ministers, so we had to discuss two new ministers. But I'm sorry we weren't. You have rightly talked about the role of parents, because parents do the most and can do to children, then after that comes the school and legal framework that helps. If someone can help protect children, then they are again parents, schools, and a different, better legal framework. But here, speaking of the legal framework, alimony still doesn't pay for its children, which seems to be, why don't we just ask ourselves, are we going to bring the crime to not pay the alimony? I'm the first one for that. A prison sentence if someone doesn't pay child support, but parents do evil to their children, we even have parents who ask themselves publicly if I need to teach my children the right situation in society at all? And then we go to an extreme situation where a former high school teacher gives a big interview and says, "I apologize for teaching kids the good one wrong, that's because she's taught them the good one." An adventurous statement, convulsing an interview. So who are we and what are we if we lose faith and truth and good? If we lose faith in right? And if we lose faith in the rightness of our children, if we do not impose them. There are no conditions in which I would do otherwise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81561	The answer to Tatjana Shimac-Bonačić's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81562	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, I'm glad you said you were wrong not to come to the Children's Forum meeting with the parliamentary deputies because I believe you'd have something to hear. As for the role of parents, I said that this is the basic role, i.e. the basic link in this entire chain and without one closed circle, without the cooperation of all of these elements, or all of these links in the chain, education and education of children, surely we cannot reach the right path for children. As far as learning well, beware that every child has come into this situation, or as parents we have heard, so it is said why you are so to me. But then we need to encourage our children that they are on the right path and that each parent should surely be encouraged and that someone has said that it is bad to learn good or that someone has sinned, it is just a disaster. Thus, it is up to us to learn well, we will have a variety of accidents to say, but if we invest, if we teach children right, then we can certainly expect results. And after all, parents, it doesn't matter how many cars, houses, anything we've created in life, what we're right now, what we're, I don't know, what our job is, is what our children are like. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81563	An individual debate, a respected representative of the Dunja Spoljar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81564	Thank you, Vice President. The esteemed attorney with the co-worker, co-worker and co-worker. Children and young people are often considered to be the healthiest part of the population that does not require special care because they no longer suffer from potentially severe infant-aged and early childhood diseases, while at the same time they have not yet begun to develop chronic diseases fatal to the elderly and middle age. However, it is precisely the period of intense growth and maturation that is critical and risky not only because of direct health risks, but because of the indirect effects of young people's potentially harmful habits and reckless behaviours. Children and young people are a critical and risk group through infrastructure segments and use of the health system, which are primary health care, general, family medicine and health care for preschool children, protection and treatment of teeth, national preventive health programmes, compulsory vaccination programme in the Republic of Croatia. Also through national programmes implemented in the system of education and education, which is the Croatian National Programme for the Prevention of HIV, i.e. AIDS, protection against domestic violence, prevention of child injury, prevention of suicide in children and young people, prevention of overweight, National Health Protection Programme for people with diabetes and implementation of the National Programme for Roma. So, it sounds a lot bitter when all this is coming together, but there are problems. The largest number of experts, the Ombudsman therefore supports efforts aimed at introducing order into the system, but it is unacceptable that this process takes place at the expense of offerings and quality in child health care. This is also witnessed by the growing appeal of parents who, through humanitarian actions, collect the funds needed to treat severely ill children, operations abroad and the like. Such practice does not always succeed and cannot replace the quality system solutions of this complex problem. The D.A. recommends better informing children and parents about the possibility of exercising health insurance rights. Not only children’s health, the Ombudsman supports the activities of promoting eating habits and preventing excessive body weight of children who should be more actively involved in parents who have already been spoken of today, given their role in the formation of child eating habits. That's very important. In preserving the health of school children, schools, although trying to engage in all segments, are not all-powerful and we have already concluded this today. In particular, the service of school medicine is an organisational unit of the Institute of Public Health. For each school, a competent team of school medicine has been appointed to conduct the full preventive health care of each individual student. The medical education provided by the school medicine service is accompanied by lectures, group work, stands, workshops, personal hygiene in the preservation of health, the importance of proper nutrition, socially unacceptable bullying and abuse, puberty and menstruation, addictions, sexually transmitted diseases, contraception, the need for the exercise of the curriculum of health education planned through the content integrated into existing curricula and programmes, which is usually nature and society, biology, physical and health culture and psychology. The Ombudsman notes in this report that the health care curricula is not designed and planned to impose views contrary to universal and constitutional values. On the contrary, the goal is to help children and young people develop a system of values through the contents of the curicula. All of us relevant subjects whose categorical goal is the health of children and young people, that our children grow up to be healthy, meet young people able to enter the challenges of the adult world in our work we are necessarily directed to cooperate with different institutions and institutions, such as health, education, social care, the MUP, citizens' associations as well as representatives of the authorities. Such a work model recommends exactly this report that we are talking about today. You can always do, you can always do better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81565	Thank you. The last debate of 10 minutes and the esteemed Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81566	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's very often our mouths are full of those that children are our future, and here's the void of this assembly right now we actually see how unworthy we are in what we're saying. So today we're talking about the threat to children's rights, and in my debate, I'm going to turn the board around, so I'd just like to draw attention to the more pronounced and more frequent deviant behavior of children to their environment. So more specifically, I want to concentrate on child abuse, but also on their parents towards teachers. I don't think anyone was talking about this subject today. Because as such, she was not processed in the report. We are witnesses to the increasing frequency of the students’ abuses of teachers, of those most innocuous in showing disrespect and insubordination, so when students target teachers with different objects, when they insult them, call them ugly names, spit on them, damage his personal car to open and very rough physical attacks, so also metal bars and truck shifters and knives. Unfortunately, in 2001, we also witnessed the fatal outcome of such an attack. So then in 2001, at the Mining Technical School in Varazdin, a student shot a professor by shooting a gun because he gave him a third negative grade. No wonder since then, high school professors are literally afraid to go to class especially at the end of the school year when the grades are concluded. Young people, especially a large maneuvering space for the abuse of teachers and professors, have been opened through social networks, especially popular Facebook where they are founded, so we can tell groups that literally collect ideas for organized psychological harassment where students of abusive comments about teachers, accuse them of paedophilia and spread other false and malicious stories that certainly damage the reputation of teachers or professors. So the trend of violence against teachers takes increasingly brutal proportions, and the students are unfortunately getting younger. A few years ago, I remember, one of our national papers conveyed the news that a seven-year-old student in a blunt school was beating up his teacher. A special story is parents of students whose violent behaviors range from verbal threats to physical violence. It is often the case that parents send applications to competent services with false accusations against teachers who are spotlessly responding to them, but the slandered teacher is unfortunately still staying with the services and the public, too, suspiciously and never actually getting the satisfaction of the moral damage that has been done to him. There are often talk of 350 to 400 attacks on teachers a year, at least twice a day. With experience showing that there are two more unrecorded ones coming to one recorded case because the school is caused by discomfort and fear, one large part of the violence is being covered up. Unfortunately, psychiatrists warn that such cases will occur more and more frequently in view of the growing social crisis, economic hardships, the large number of marital breakdowns, and the growing number of people with mental disorders and personality disorders. These are simply facts, these are the problems we face and for which we have neither simple nor effective solutions. A number of questions are raised which we do not have answers, which are considered violence against a teacher at all, which are the rights of teachers and which are allowed self-protection measures, who is competent to report the case of violence against teachers, whom he reports at all, what measures should be taken, and who take to sanction violence and that violence is not repeated. A teacher according to most interpretations in case a student attacks him must not even push the child away because it is immediately qualified as physical violence against the student. A parent of such a child may refuse to talk to a psychologist, refuse pedagogical measures, refuse treatment and treatment with psychiatrists both for himself and for his child. Unfortunately, school teachers and teachers are less likely to be appointed as authority because they have been deprived of any right to discipline. If only a student’s voice rises, the media will soon come up with a sensational title on the abuser teacher. What led to such a teacher’s reaction is that no one cares or matters to anyone. We must also admit that for the past 20 years we have taught children only their rights. We haven't taught them their responsibilities, we've forgotten our full obligations, and now we're surprised that children are called solely to their rights, and they deny their obligations, deny any responsibility. It is certain that civil education in schools would contribute to raising children's awareness of the harmfulness of violence, but the effects of civic education will be visible only in future generations so in future generations. And, of course, civil education does not involve parents, so adults. And we have to do something now. And we wonder what to do and what to do with the parents. Personally, it's unacceptable for me to have the idea that security guards are being placed at the door of school institutions. In such cases, will we even be able to talk about schools as educational institutions if security guards stand at the door? He's thinking of equating physical violence against teachers with an attack on an official person, let's say by attacking a police officer. Isn't that actually one forced imposition of authority? And what kind of authority will that be, then what kind of authority will teachers have? We have, I'm finally going to say a Protocol on the treatment of violence in schools related to the handling of violence among students. Therefore, the protocol makes it perfectly clear what is considered to be violence and what is the procedure, who needs to be informed, who is invited to talk, who takes action as a person and who as an institution to stop this violence. But here I am finally wondering if the time has come to bring another protocol? So, protocol in handling cases of violence of students and their parents against teachers and teachers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81567	Thank you. The final minutes of this debate belong to the Ombudsman for children respected Ivana Milas Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81568	Thank you very much. It's been so long I can almost tell you good evening again to everyone. I started my four-point exposure, and so I'll just happen to conclude, even though I promise that this will be even shorter than I started. First of all, I want to thank everyone there is no debate today that in some way, which would not almost completely agree with me, which was not encouraging to me, which in a large part of its content does not go directly to the benefit and protection of the rights of the child and which I do not personally benefit from, so to me personally, is an incentive to work and some guidance as to how to proceed. I'm going to think that, as we say in Dalmatia, the clock allows me to make a joke, we're about 12, 13 with Mr. Maric, who went out and the cameramen, what few of us who have children risk losing parental care at this time and those who don't have this kind of social life and staying at work until half past eight are hardly going to do anything successful. There was one remark, ma'am, I think it was, I'm sorry I forgot, I think Cvetovic is, which I would refer to because it's very important. She mentioned that it should be compulsory to participate in the work group. The child's rights committee is just saying the opposite. No one should impose an obligation on a lawyer, a lawyer, because then, in fact, his independent position becomes questionable. As a lawyer, I always say every rule can have exceptions so I would never say never, but in principle I think it's much better to stay out of the working group, it gives you an independent position and a much better perspective when you make comments and suggestions. Besides, you know, we're a small task force, we're a small country when you've been working in a working group for a long time, but maybe your blade might sort of come forward. What I'd like to get is, it's, uh, exceptional remarks on the law as well as working on some bill is an extremely momentous work. And here I would like to ask whoever is more useful for the future than the possibility of me participating on the inside, and it is time to make too many remarks and suggestions, not to get any comments, not to get a proposal and that my deadline for remarks and suggestions expired yesterday. Mrs. Šimac-Bonačić said how many of us we could have at your coffee office, as a child lawyer, I might have said a little more comfortable position than the other colleagues, all of our colleagues are attorneys that my position as attorney for children allows me perhaps a small degree of leniency more than they do. I'm doing an extremely serious job, but as a child lawyer, I might be able to afford something like that, something a little more casual. In that sense, I would like to be seen as a serious institution but which, I won't say unseriously works, but which I would like to be taken by the public and above all by you whose commissioner and whose report I am to be seen as a serious institution that you can contact without a problem, without any doubt, if that means calling for coffee, however. I'd like you to announce yourself not because I'm a formalist, but because I'd like you to come and find me in the office and then we can really talk. This opening and my idea of opening up to the public goes first and foremost towards you whose Commissioner, of course to children absolutely and to citizens in general. And as Mr. Maric mentioned, the idea is to consult different Czech associations, so get. From, say, the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, a radiologist, for example. They think about this issue, the Faculty of Medicine, the Psychological Chambers of Others, we all talk about how kids need this and that and often we don't have scientific and professional data at all, which is what a situation requires and what it means for children. For reasons of correctness very briefly, Mrs Cvetovic mentioned that family centres have abolished the proposal, however, it is a legislative body, that it has been abolished by the Family Law, it is not true, the Social Care Act has been abolished. And his colleague Maric wondered if he was not paying for a abstention of a criminal offence or could be. It is a crime, but it is a long story of why little is used. Because the crime is difficult to prove, you must prove your intention, etc., etc. It's a problem to charge with people who don't have at the end, you have nothing to do with it, etc. Finally, I thank you again all and again all of you, and the words of one child today, with a debate in the House, which he has sent to all parliamentary representatives and to me as an adult: hurry up adults, we grow fast. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81569	I thank the esteemed Ivana Milas-Klaric. And now we're gonna stop working for today. We will continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the final draft law on the resolution of the consequences of the Vukovar-Srijem County disaster. Thank you very much and good night. Session interrupted at 1922 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81570	Report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2013. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2013 is accepted". Please, who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. ... Go ahead. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81571	Excuse me, I spoke to my colleague Reiner. I'm looking for a re-election.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-16-0.u81572	Thank you very much. We'll do it again. I give the vote the conclusion "A report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2013 is accepted". Please, who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes are 90 votes in favour and 22 votes against the accepted conclusion. Good morning. Dear colleagues of the MPs and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, we continue at the plenary session of the 13th session of the Croatian Parliament. It is next according to the established agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on the Rehabilitation of the disaster in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 674 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the emergency procedure unites the first and second reading, the amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the draft law was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. Reports from these committees of working bodies of the Croatian Parliament were received here at the session. Does the representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia wish to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Minister and Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Minister of the Interior, respected Ranko Ostojic. Here's my colleague Ostojić.
