ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u63999	Dear gentlemen of MPs and MPs, colleagues and colleagues of the Croatian Parliament, I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Zoran Milanovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister present at this session of the Croatian Parliament. This session begins with a regular session of the Croatian Parliament, which, according to the provisions of the current Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, begins on 15 January and ends on 15 July. I invite you to pay our respects at the beginning of the session to the homeland by performing the "Beautiful Our Homeland" anthem. - The performance of the Anthem "Beautiful Our Homeland" – Dear fellow MPs and respected fellow MPs, President, members of the Government I invite you to pay tribute to the fallen Croatian defenders and all civilian victims of the war and all the fallen for Croatia. - A minute of silence - Let them be eternal glory and thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, the minutes from the 10th and 11th session of the Croatian Parliament were received at the session. Are there any objections to the minutes of the Croatian Parliament? No, I'm not. I'm not. I hereby declare that we have adopted the minutes of the 10th and 11th session of the Croatian Parliament in the proposed text. We are moving to determine the agenda of the session of the Croatian Parliament. With the invitation to the session, you received a draft agenda. At the session, you are given the final draft agenda. I put 8 new points in the final draft agenda. These are: 1. Proposal for a law on the representativeness of employers' associations and trade unions, first reading, P.Z. No. 601. 2. Proposal for a law on the implementation of real estate and movable sales in the executive procedure, first reading, P.Z. No. 602. 3. Proposal for a law on the exemption and determination of compensation, first reading, P.Z. No. 598. 4. Proposal for a law on tourist inspection with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 600. 5. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Market in Heat Energy with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 599. Six. Probation service work report for 2012. Seven. Proposal for the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2014. 8. The Rules of Procedure of the Commissioner for Information, Confirmation. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament determines firstly that the proposal to adopt certain laws is subject to an emergency procedure. I note that the urgency of the procedure for the adoption of laws bearing the P.Z.E. marking. we shall not decide in accordance with Article 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. These are the laws under points 1 and 2 of the final draft agenda. I note that we placed the law under item 21 of the agenda by emergency procedure at the 10th session of the Croatian Parliament and was transferred to this agenda. For the adoption of an emergency procedure, the laws under the items of the agenda are proposed from point 3 to point 20. From points 22 to 35, point 38, points 42 and 44, points 48 and 49, points 51, points 55 and 56, points 59 and 62. Now I'm supposed to read the names, the full names of those laws, and I suggest since we marked them on the agenda points that I don't do it because it would really take half an hour. If you think I should be suggested from the bench. I don't think so. So I'm asking if any of the MPs have any objections to an emergency procedure when they pass the proposed laws? There isn't. We're going to vote on urgency, and there's no need to make any remarks. Thank you very much, my colleague's suggestion. We can cross then, just a little bit. ... Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. Therefore, there were no written objections to the draft agenda for the session and this agenda was in accordance with Article 225(3). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament is considered adopted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure may now be submitted only to those points which did not contain the draft agenda with a call for a session. Do any of the MPs have objected to the inclusion in the agenda of item 1. Proposal for a Law on the Representativeship of Employers and Trade Unions, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 601. 2. Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of Real estate and movables in the Executive Procedure, P.Z. No. 602. 3. Proposal for a Law on Extinguishment and Determination of Compensation, First Reading, P.Z. No. 598. 4. 2012 Probation Service report. 5. Proposal for the Annual Implementation Plan of the Croatian Statistical Activities for 2014 6. The Rules of Procedure of the Commissioner for Information and Confirmation No objections. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues, the agenda has been established. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure should now and should publish the established agenda by reading a total of 120 items of the agenda. I suggest, if that's okay with you, that I don't read it completely, but let me announce that the agenda is as set out in the final draft agenda. Shut up means approval, thank you very much. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12.00 HOURS]] This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I propose supplementing the agenda of the 12th session of the Croatian Parliament with the following points: Proposal for a Law on the work of P.Z. No. 606; 2. Proposal for a law on the participation of decision-makers and the European Society, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 608; 3. Proposal for a law on European Workers' Councils, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 604; 4. Proposal for a labour protection law, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 607; 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Service Act with the Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 610; 6. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Trade with the Final Proposal for Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 603; 7. Proposal for a law amending the law on electronic trade with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 605; 8. Proposal for a law amending the law on electronic signature with the Final Proposal for Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 609; 9. Proposal for a law on the protection of persons with mental disorders, first reading, P.Z. No. 612; 10. Proposal for a law on financial operations and accounting of non-profit organisations, first reading, P.Z. No. 611; 11. (a) Proposal for a decision authorising a member of the Competition Protection Council; (b) Proposal for a decision appointing a member of the Competition Protection Council;
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64001	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Unfortunately, the practice that the Government directs the laws of urgency continues and we do not see any reason in accordance with our Rules of Procedure that the laws under regular numbers 5, 6, 7 and 8 go by emergency procedure. I think I can go into normal procedure. After all, it is best that it is so best to show the laws we have adopted, which we discussed last week, which were included in the emergency procedure at the beginning of the 12th month and we adopted them practically at the end of the 1st month. And that's where it turns out that the government has come to us to say something that isn't. Unfortunately, we did not stick to our Rules of Procedure, and we accepted that. It's the same with these laws. There is no reason for an emergency procedure in the explanation, and therefore the Croatian Democratic Community Club is opposed to this and we are asking for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64002	Okay. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64003	I apologize to the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, I do not, on behalf of the Club, speak, remarks on the points of which Mr Shuker was manifested but on the proposal, to include the agenda of the draft labour law. And I can explain why?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64004	Not now. Not now, because it's P.Z.E. ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We're going to vote. We understood the vote. Let us first decide who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Service Act, P.Z. No. 610? Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes on the agenda are subject to the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Service Act and 84 votes in favour and 32 votes against. 2. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Trade, P.Z. No. 603? Please make a statement. Thank you. Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of the 84 votes in favour and 33 votes against the agenda under the urgent procedure is included the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Trade, P.Z. No. 603. 3. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law amending the Law on electronic trade, P.Z. No. 605? Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of the 84 votes in favour and 32 votes against the agenda under the urgent procedure is included the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Electronic Trade, P.Z. No. 605. 4. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the law amending the Law on electronic signature, P.Z. No. 609. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes on the agenda under the emergency procedure are included the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Electronic Signature, P.Z. No. In 609, 84 votes for and 32 votes against. Does one of the MPs now have an objection to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed points? There is. Honourable representative Branko Vuksic is now and respected representative Bozinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64005	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues of Croatian laborers oppose the inclusion of the draft law on working on the agenda because the law that is too important for the entire Republic of Croatia has not been adopted for more and more decommissioned workers in the conversation with the social partners. We know that all the time the government has announced that it is important to discuss such issues with partners, and the important, most important partner of the Social Democratic Government should certainly be workers or trade unions, or trade unions, are to interrupt the talks, and the talks are because the government is ultimately insisting on those provisions that unions do not accept. There wasn't enough will to talk to them all the way. So we ask you, in fact, to take it off the agenda and continue negotiations and put it on the agenda as soon as possible, but with the consent of the union if you care about social dialogue. If not, it's only proof that it's a rape of democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64006	Dear Representative Davor Bozinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64007	Thank you, Mr. President. You weren't this morning. I'll just try to put it short. We discussed a plan to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the EU acquis for 2014. The document has 42 laws that are planned to be adopted as European laws with P.Z.E. Comparing this agenda and this plan sent by the Government, I see that already the first three laws on the agenda are not foreseen as part of the legislative activity of the Croatian Parliament in terms of transposition, i.e. harmonisation with the acquis for the EU for 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64008	What do you suggest? You object to the agenda, is that what we're discussing?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64009	And Mr. President, is something wrong?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64010	Yeah, yeah. But what do you suggest?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64011	I don't think that's how it works. This is a serious home. So, on the same day within 10 minutes, we bring forward a legislative plan that we are violating with a draft agenda relating to laws that have P.Z.E. I said it and last year it was. We had 108. In plan 157, we adopted as Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64012	Your Honor, I understand that this is an uncoordinated program.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64013	I think that's a question for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64014	Yeah. I understand you, I will answer you. That it is an uncoordinated program that you previously discussed in the Croatian Parliament with the proposed agenda. I guess the program's in sync, and there's time for that. And now the question is just the agenda. Please, so last year's program predicted this agenda point. Therefore, I ask that we plead. He's got more hands in the air. Dear Representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64015	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. As far as the U.S.S.A.'s position is concerned, we consider this to be an extremely important law. We know that the government has worked on this for a long time and has not made the decision lightly, but we think it would be good to consider all the arguments for and against once again and that the Presidency of the Parliament before voting this issue of the relevance of the argument that we are proposing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64016	Thank you very much. No more hands in the air. And there is. Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64017	Of course not. Mr. President, I raised my hand first, but you didn't see me because I'm high up here. So, I suggest that the government take off the P.Z.E. mark. from these laws that are proposed to be classified because we are in 2014 and indeed those laws were not in the plan for 2014. Were they for 2013 that year, ladies and gentlemen, it's been a long time. Therefore, we are now in this year and my proposal is to have the government remove those P.Z.E. markings. And then let most of us decide what to do next with those laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64018	Thank you very much. Now we'll get to the bottom of the proposal. The proposal is a respected representative of Branko Vuksic and respected representative of Jadranka Kosor not to be included in the agenda of point 1. of the draft Labour Act. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. Please state who is in order to stay, to be included in the agenda of the draft Labour Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 606? Can we get to the bottom of this, who's in? ... To be included, to stay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes are included in the agenda of the draft Labour Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 606 with 81 votes against and 37 votes against. Thank you very much. Now we move on to decision-making, voting on the topics processed. Dear fellow MPs, respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament. We continue the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. One request, first of all, to determine that the announced agenda item will not work this morning. These are the reports on the work of the HRT Programme Council and all reports on HRT because the competent working body has requested that it wait with the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 228, it is possible to satisfy this because the practice was at the time, so I suggest we discuss -A report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds secured in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012 for the needs of national minorities. I've got an arm in the air, respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64020	Your Honor. Since Friday has been announced that reports on HRT will be discussed and that part of this item that has been so strangely set up since it did not exist on the agenda, we believe that the majority of this point, which has been withdrawn and downloaded from the agenda, could be discussed and, accordingly, requested a 15-minute break from the HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64021	Dear Representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64022	Same reason we're looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64023	Let me just write it down, dear representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64024	Thank you very much, Mr. President. For exactly the same reasons we're looking for a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64025	No more requests for a break. Please, I can't even remember much more important things, get up, get involved to go into the record. Here you are, dear representative Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64026	I'd just like to ask Mr. President for this intervention in the agenda that happened and that people were obviously preparing for other points, if we can find out where we're going on this agenda today? To what point?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64027	Depending on you MPs how much you will apply for the debate, all points on the agenda are acute and if you do Where we stop today, we move on tomorrow. [[And with which it starts tomorrow morning, at least we know that.]] All MPs must be familiar with the agenda, they are familiar and there is something else I must say that the Presidency of the Parliament, so all representatives of the clubs before the beginning of the session we agreed that the reports in the agenda will be carried out in the third week of the Croatian Parliament. It's the third week of today. I'll see you at five to ten. Thank you very much. At 9.55 we start working. Thank you. I expect that kind of intelligence from the MPs. Dear fellow MPs and respected fellow MPs can continue the session. We will now comply with the usual practice first on the basis of Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to supplement the agenda with the following points: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the System of State Administration, first reading, P.Z. No. 619; 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the provision of services in tourism with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 614; 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Household Activity Act with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 613; 4. Proposal for a law amending the Law on residence tax with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 615; 5. Proposal for a law amending the Construction Products Act with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 616; 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Police Affairs and Powers, first reading, P.Z. No. 618; 7. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Theatres with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013. The Rules of Procedure are set out firstly to decide on a proposal to adopt certain laws by emergency procedure. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed laws? Yeah. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64029	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I think we could record this so we don't repeat it every time. In accordance with Article 204 of our Rules of Procedure, paragraph 1 which states that an exceptional law may be adopted by means of an urgent procedure when justified, in particular, the reasons which must be explained in the proposal. I see no reason nor is it particularly justified that the laws under regular number 2, 3, 4, 5 and 7 are adopted in your proposal to supplement the agenda by an urgent procedure. Emergency may only be because the departments of resolution did not do their job on time. Because if we talk about these tourist laws then it was logical to discuss them at the 11th and 12th months and bring them in. But to discuss such laws by emergency procedure is unfortunately to bring in non-quality things that later force us to change the law. I ask you nicely as President of this House to influence that the Government no longer sends us because there is no need, no negotiations or anything to discuss the laws normally in two readings.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64030	Thank you very much. I'm influencing, according to the possibilities and according to the priority assessment. Now we will resolve the objection by voting. Please establish the quorum. Thank you very much. We've got enough to decide on all things. Let's get clear, who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the provision of services in tourism, P.Z. No. 614; Please plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes, 83 votes in favour and 30 votes against on the agenda are included in the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the provision of services in tourism, P.Z. No. 614; Second, who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Hosting Activity, P.Z. No. 613; Please raise your hand to plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes, 83 votes in favour and 31 votes against the agenda under the urgent procedure is included the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Household Activity Act, P.Z. No. 613; Third, who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the law amending the Law on residence tax, P.Z. No. 615; Please raise your hands to plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 82 votes in favour, 31 votes against the agenda according to the urgent procedure, are included the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on residence tax, P.Z. No. 615. Fourthly, who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the law amending the Construction Products Act, P.Z. No. 616; Please raise your hand to plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 82 votes in favour, 31 votes against the agenda by emergency procedure, are included the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Construction Products, P.Z. No. 616; Fifth, who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Theatres, P.Z. No. 617; Please raise your hand to plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes are 82 votes in favour, 32 votes against the agenda under the emergency procedure included the final draft law amending the Law on Theatres, P.Z. No. 617. Do any of the MPs have an agenda for the rest of the proposed agendas? There isn't. No, I'm not. I'm not. Dear colleagues and respected fellow MPs. The agenda is complemented by that. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12.00 HOURS]] Dear MPs and MPs, at the initiative of the Committee on Gender Equality, I urge you to stand up to join the World Campaign One Billion Rising, Billions rise against violence against women. This campaign seeks to show commitment and solidarity with the world's fight against violence, as a billion women worldwide are experiencing violence according to UN statistics. Please stand up and ask the official photographer to photograph us. Here's a thank you for all of us. Please, peace! This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day I propose to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to supplement the agenda of the point – Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Any of the MPs object to the inclusion in the agenda of the Reports of the Mandate-Immunity Commission? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda has been completed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64033	Here's Mr. President, with an agreement with Don Grubisic and a higher number of new circumstances around Mirna, I'm looking in front of the Independent Representatives' Club for a break. Why? Because those who yell away from Mirna's real estate are trying to get their hands on those same properties. They're trying for nothing to get to the capital of several hundred million kunas. We won't give it to them, so let us bring the club to court after the break.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64034	Already established practice in the Croatian Parliament before the start of a regular discussion of matter. Damir Cain, independent list. Branko Vukšić, Croatian Labourists.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64035	Same reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64036	HDZ. The Djuro Drinker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64037	Same reason we're looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64038	I understand. Is there anyone else? I'm setting a break. Can we do 15 to 10? At 15 to 10, we'll continue, thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, now at the usual time and on the basis of Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, instead of the extension of the debate, will propose an addition of the agenda of the 12th session of the Croatian Parliament to the next points. The first is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests, with a final proposal for a law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 620; Second, Proposal for a State Aid Act, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 625; Third, Proposed factoring law, first reading, PZ No. 621; Fourth, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural and Rural Development Support Act, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, CZ No. 624; Fifth, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on International Restriction Measures, with a final proposal for a law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 623; Sixth, Proposal for a Law implementing the Regulation of the European Union No. 649.2012 on exports and imports of dangerous chemicals, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 622; Seven, Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Radiotelevision; Eight, Proposal for a Decision to declare "National Day Nikola Tesla" - MPs at the Croatian Assembly Mirela Holy, Damir Cain and Davor Bernardić. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure which determines firstly that the proposal to adopt certain laws is subject to an emergency procedure, note that we are not deciding in accordance with Article 206 of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are under the number 5 and 6 of the proposals to supplement the agenda for these arrangements. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of other proposed laws? Yeah. Dear Vice President of the House Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64040	Dear Mr. President, we were hoping that this practice of pushing the law under emergency procedure would finally cease, a law that has nothing to do with an emergency procedure and does not meet the conditions of the Rules of Procedure at all, and unfortunately it is happening again. It happens continuously and 2/3 of the laws we've passed lately, they've been passed by emergency procedure. Every time or maybe I'm exaggerating, in a number of cases, it happened after two or three or four months later that the proposer realized that he has hurriedly and needlessly pushed the law by emergency procedure, and we were re-determining the same law by emergency procedure. Some went like that four and five times. It's completely pointless and harmful by the work of this Parliament and we certainly have observations about it. And one minor observation is, we will, of course, discuss it when it comes to the agenda, but it seems quite amazing to me that all the experts of financial professions and economic professions have failed to find a Croatian term for factoring, so in this Croatian Parliament we are discussing a law that has a factoring title. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64041	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64042	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I would have had an objection to the application of the emergency procedure in points 1 and 3. So under number 1 is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Forests, with a final proposal for a law. By listening and reading newspaper articles and media advances, we see that it is actually about expropriation of forests and deforestation, and in connection with the construction of golf courses. If this is so urgent, we should be told who personally or by which firm pushes the amendments to that law and why the emergency procedure in the Croatian Parliament is due to one or two persons or one or two companies. Secondly, I agree with Mr. Vice President that this word factoring honestly, although I know English, I can assume a lot of what this is all about, but the title of the bill on factoring, I don't even know what to say, doesn't belong to this House of Commons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64043	Thank you, too. Dear representative Mirela Holly, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64044	Your Honor, I object to the urgent procedure of the Law of Amendments and the additions to the Law on Forests. In view of this, this law did not go through a fundamental public debate and did not go beyond the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act which require a month of discussion. Since it is not a European law, and this problem is not really an emergency procedure, I believe that there are no conditions for the forest law, or amendments and additions of the forest law to the emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64045	Now, the remarks, partly justified, will be decided in a democratic way by a vote and we will see. So let's check the state of affairs, numerous states of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much. We have 116 MPs present at the session here. There are others coming. We've got enough MPs who can decide all things. Please, first of all, let's go decide the urgency of the procedure. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forests, P.Z. No. 620. By raising your hand, may we plead the urgency of the procedure? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. How about a score? I find that most of the vote 79 votes in favour of, 37 votes against the agenda under the urgent procedure is included the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forests, P.Z. No. 620. Second, who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the State aid law P.Z. No. 625. Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes, 80 votes in favour, 36 votes against the agenda under the urgent procedure, are included the Final Proposal for a State Support Act, P.Z. No. 625. Third, I would like to ask who is in favour of the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Act on Support in Agriculture and Rural Development, P.Z. No. 624. Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes on the agenda under the emergency procedure are included the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Agricultural and Rural Development Support Act, P.Z. No. In 624, with 80 votes for and 36 votes against. Thank you very much. Does any of the MPs have an objection to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed agenda points? There isn't. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues the agenda is complemented. And now with the usual practice in the Croatian Parliament, we will first supplement the agenda but before that I would like to ask that we determine the number of quorums in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much. We have enough votes to decide all things. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I propose the addition of the agenda to the following points. 1. Proposal for a consumer protection law with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 630; 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the laws on the promotion of entrepreneurship infrastructure, with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 627; 3. Proposal for a law on the confirmation of a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a project to modernise HH infrastructure with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 628. 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of members in the European Parliament from the Republic of Croatia with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 629. 5. Proposal for a decision to appoint a head of state lawyer of the Republic of Croatia. 6. Proposal for a decision appointing a member of the National Attorney's Council of Representatives. And seven. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Committee on Fiscal Policy. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure, which determines firstly to decide on a proposal to adopt certain laws by emergency procedure, shall note that in the urgency of the procedure for the adoption of laws bearing the P.Z.E. marking. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, this is the law under point 1 of the proposal to supplement the agenda. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of other proposed laws? Yeah. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64047	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. We believe that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure with the final draft law does not meet the conditions laid down in Article 204 of our Rules of Procedure. Moreover, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, we discussed this law two and a half months ago. This law was supposed to be the basis for this investment swing in the Republic of Croatia that will take place this year, now it is the end of the second month of this year, we are now being offered to amend the laws we discussed several months ago. Well, that points to one great insecureness. Second of all, I think it's high time someone didn't know what they were going to do when the law was proposed, stop harassing this High House. Because it's better when the law is proposed in two readings, maybe someone in the debate, and maybe he mentioned the reasons why we're going now to change this law by emergency procedure because when reading is, when the law is in two readings, there's a certain time distance between two readings and things are made because these laws don't happen during the year. Especially in countries such as Croatia and which are in such economic problems as we are, therefore, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament we are asking for a vote on the urgency of this procedure, but we do not consider that there is any justification based on Article 204.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64048	I understand. There are no other hands in the air. Let's make a decision about the HDZ Club's observation. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on the Promotion of Entrepreneurship Infrastructure, P.Z. No. 667. Please raise your hand to plead, who's in need? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you. I find that the majority of votes, 80 votes in favour and 25 votes against the agenda under the urgent procedure is included the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on the Promotion of Entrepreneurship Infrastructure, P.Z. No. 667. Do any of the MPs object to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed agenda points? Yeah. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64049	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, realizing the difficult situation in HZ and all those companies that came from them, I, on behalf of the HDZ Club, want to warn this House of not one thing that is unfortunately repeated. It was first in a different form in 2002, and now we're making a decision on the creation of deficits for 2015 and '16. Year, '17. Why? Because it is evident that this guarantee provides a guarantee for a loan that HZ infrastructure will not be able to return but will return from the state budget. And at the same time as these funds were in the state budget, look at the 2011 budget, look today, and you'll see that HH funds are down by a billion and some more kuna. So, colleagues and colleagues well-intentioned that tomorrow, 2016, when a change of government comes, someone doesn't write about skeletons, this is one of those famous skeletons that is otherwise spoken of in politics, so one of these decisions is made, so when the guarantee comes after 3.4 years on charge, it's someone else's fault. So, we, in fact, are going to raise your hand for this, raise your hand for a future skeleton, whether it is 2016, 2017, it doesn't matter when the eurostat puts it into the deficit of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64050	Dear colleague, I thought that you in the first report had an objection and a proposal for the whole agenda as was the practice so far, so all remarks on the urgency of the procedure could be made by one communication. Therefore, we have no right to vote now. Is there any other point on the agenda? There isn't. With this respected colleagues and colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, we have completed the agenda. Dear fellow MPs and respected fellow MPs, I see that the atmosphere is good, positive, optimistic, but we have to work. We agreed that today we would propose to supplement the agenda of the Croatian Parliament, the 12th session and first, since we will not see each other tomorrow, especially we will not see women, MPs. I want to congratulate March 8th, Women's Day, and I want you to know that a duplicate of President of the SDP's rose came from the SDP club, and I thank the SDP's club for giving women one rose, so he sent a message of special concern for women's equality in the Republic of Croatia. Once again congratulations, I want you to progress, to be equal and evener sometimes than us men. Before we move on to the agenda, I see the hand of a respected colleague, Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64052	Thank you, President of the Parliament. I would ask you on behalf of the HDSSB Club for a five-minute break for the reason of warning the Croatian Assembly at the point was proposed by the HDSB club in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Article 248, and this is a proposal for the Parliament to discuss the problem of bilingual inscriptions in Vukovar as well as the signatures submitted by the Vukovar headquarters several months ago to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much. Five minutes off.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64053	Thank you very much. Okay. HDSSB, HDZ, Croatian Labourists, respected Jadranka Kosor and club HGS. I still saw someone. Jozo Radoš, HNS, minorities, Hodzic and HDSS, SDSS. We know well, SDSS. And Cain, the list of independents. We can. So you don't need a break of 10 minutes, you know what you're gonna say? She needs a break. Okay, at 9.40. So you can consult. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I propose the completion of the daily work of the 12th session with the following points: (a) Proposal for amendments to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014, (a) Proposals for amendments and additions to the financial plans of the financial plans for 2014: Croatian Waters, Croatian Roads, (a) Proposal for amendments to the State budget and financial plans of non-profit users for 2014 (consolidated), (a) Explanation of the proposal for amendments and addition of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia and of the financial plans for the non-profit users for 2014, 2. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014, second reading, P.Z. No. 637, 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions, with the Final Proposal for the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 633, 4. Proposal for a law amending the law on gambling, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 631, 5. Proposal for a law on the right to increase wages on the basis of years of work experience, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 635, 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on materials and articles that come into direct contact with food, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 632, 7. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Air Protection, with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 639, 8. Proposal for a law confirming the Framework Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe on the Regional Housing Management Programme, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 638, 9. Proposal for a law on the validation of the Convention between the Republic of Croatia and the Portuguese Republic on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 634, 10. Proposal for a law confirming the Protocol between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of San Marino amending and supplementing the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of San Marino on the avoidance of double taxation of income taxes, with the Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 636, 11. Proposal for a decision on a spatial plan of the area of special features of Plitvice Lake National Park, 12. A) Proposal for a decision on the discharge of the Ombudsman for children, B) Proposal for a decision on the appointment of a Ombudsman for children. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the The Rules of Procedure are set out firstly to decide on a proposal to adopt certain laws by emergency procedure. I note that the urgency of the procedure for the adoption of laws bearing the P.Z.E. marking. we shall not decide in accordance with Article 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. These are the laws under the 6th and 7th of the right to submit a supplement to the agenda. Do any of the MPs have any objection to an emergency procedure in the adoption of other proposed laws? Yeah. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64055	Thank you very much. Mr. President, the HDZ Club opposes an emergency procedure at points 3, 4 and 5 because it is not good to change tax laws during the year. However, the key problem is that these laws should have been changed if the government had already decided to change them in this way 3 or 4 months ago, which is more so the moment the health contribution was reduced then the VAT rate rose from 23% to 25%, as we see now in the package of the increase there is no. Also, the proposal for a law on a salary allowance was also known at the time of the adoption of the budget that the funds were not sufficiently secured, and when you look at certain items that are proposed, then the question of who has the right to propose something why he knows there is no money, that he would admit for 3 or 4 months that he admitted it was like that and in another way. And this just points to when we bring the state budget that we have to be very careful about how we adopt certain items, is this just a confirmation that the budget that we brought in at the 12th month was one simple farce. We knew at that point, unfortunately, that we were in excessive deficit measures and we were opposed in this way because I'm saying, if the government knew and she knew she was in this situation, then these laws were supposed to be proposed last year, and when we were making the budget, we could have passed the budget. And, Mr. President, just for the sake of the dignity of this House, we have always been told that we have passed such a law that the Croatian Health Insurance Office will be separated from the Treasury. There's no such thing as budget rebalancing. Is this at this point the announcement of the rebalancing of another budget up to 1.7 because of the proposed changes to budget 1.7. The Croatian Health Insurance Office will not be able to isolate itself from the Treasury because it is not foreseen in the budget. The second thing, in the financial plans of extra budget users, is among other things the financial plan of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance. Since 2002, however, when a health contribution has been allocated from the Institute and transferred to the Treasury, the financial plan only contains practically material costs and salary costs for HZZO. Therefore, in accordance with the existing legal rules, and since this decision should apply from 1.7. The government was to amend the HZZO's financial plan and change that item in the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64056	Your Honor, I understand all three objections. On the first appeal of the emergency procedure, we will decide on this, and on the other two objections are not authorized or in the part-round of the President of the Croatian Parliament, nor do I know what the budget will look like in six months, nor what will be the status of the Croatian Institute of Public Health. But I understand your debate. We will now decide in accordance with the Rules of Procedure the urgency of which is disputed here in the Croatian Parliament. Please determine the quorum in the assembly first. Thank you very much. We have enough representatives present that we can decide all things from the Croatian Parliament's section. We will now first decide who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions, PZ No. 633. Please raise your hand and let us know who's in. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes, 80 votes in favour and 24 votes against, on the agenda of the emergency procedure, are included in the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions, PZ No. 633. Secondly, who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Games on Happiness, PZ No. 631. Please raise your hand and let us know who's in. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes, 80 votes in favour and 25 votes against, are included in the emergency procedure in the final draft law amending the law on gambling, PZ No. 631. And third, who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the short payment of salary increases based on years of work experience, PZ No. 635. Please raise your hand and let us know who's in. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes, 80 votes in favour and 25 votes against, in the agenda of the emergency procedure, was included the Law on the shortfall in salary increases based on the years of work experience reached, PZ No. 635. Does any of the MPs have an objection to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed agenda points? There's no objection. Dear colleagues and respected fellow MPs, the agenda is complemented by this. Now we're moving on to a statement about... Dragutin Lesar, a respected representative has his hand in the air.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64057	Mr. President, I'd only have one question. Since... to supplement the agenda and budget rebalancing, which is the schedule, the plan when the Croatian Parliament, which next week will have that debate in view of these three budget-related laws. What's the work plan for next week?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64058	Thank you very much. I understand the question. We've already talked to the proposing representatives, with laws that are tied up right now, I'm reading them, to the budget, we'd go to budget rebalance on Wednesday, and I'm also proposing that we do the draft budget Thursday if we can because they have some personal problems, so if I can't, we'd move it again for another week on Wednesday. But I'm going to know this today at 2:00 because I asked the promoter to show themselves to me so that he could put himself on the Croatian Assembly website today. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12.00 HOURS]] I suggest we go to the agenda first. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I propose the addition of the agenda to the following points: 1. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Transparency of Public Assets, with the Final Bill, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 640, 2. Proposal for a law amending the Law on general application matters, with the Final Proposal for a Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 644, 3. Proposal for a law amending the Law on genetically modified organisms, with the Final Proposal for the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 645, 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law implementing Regulation (EC) No This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1830/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 September 2003 on the traceability and labelling of genetically modified organisms and the traceability of food and feed produced from genetically modified organisms amending and supplementing Directive 2001/18/EC, with the final proposal for a law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 642, 5. Proposal for a Law amending the Law implementing Regulation (EC) No 258/97 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 January 1997 on novel food and novel food ingredients, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 647, 6. Proposal for a Act amending the Law implementing Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to the making available on the market and use of biocidal products, the Final Proposal for Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 649, 7. Proposal for a law confirming the Convention between the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Republic of Croatia on the automatic exchange of information on savings income in the form of interest payments, with the Final Bill Proposal, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 643, 8. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention between the Kingdom of the Netherlands, in relation to the Caribbean part of the Netherlands (the Islands of Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba), and the Republic of Croatia concerning the automatic exchange of information on savings income in the form of interest payments, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 646, 9. Proposal for a law on the validation of the Convention between the Kingdom of the Netherlands, in relation to Sint Maarten and the Republic of Croatia on the automatic exchange of information on savings income in the form of interest payments, with the Final Bill proposal, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 641, 10. Proposal for a law confirming the Convention between the Kingdom of the Netherlands, in relation to Curaçao and the Republic of Croatia on the automatic exchange of information on savings income in the form of interest payments, with the Final Bill proposal, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 648, 11. Proposal for a decision on the selection of the deputy attorney general. Dear colleagues and colleagues, based on Article 205. The Rules of Procedure are set out firstly to decide on a proposal to adopt certain laws by emergency procedure. I note that the urgency of the procedure for the adoption of laws bearing the P.Z.E. marking. we shall not decide in accordance with Article 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. That's the law under point 1. It's a draft agenda. Do any of the representatives and advocates have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of other proposed laws? Thank you very much. There are no reports. Do any of the MPs and advocates have objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the motion for a decision on the election of the deputy attorney general? There isn't. Thank you very much. Dear fellow MPs and respected fellow MPs, the agenda is complemented by this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64377	Thank you very much. I refer the question to the Minister of Education, Science and Sports, Mr Jovanovic, and this issue actually affects two aspects of the enrolment of students in the languages of national minorities in this case in Italian, meaning the enrolment in high school and later colleges. The admission of students to high school with a class in Italian since the Second World War of '45. until 2012 it was done in a way that when enrolling it was valued alongside mathematics and foreign language success from mother tongue in Italian. This practice was thus confirmed in 1996 when the National Minorities Agreement between the Republic of Italy and the Republic of Croatia was concluded when the States had committed themselves to respecting acquired rights. On the basis of this same contract, the Italian minority was understood as one community in Croatia and Slovenia and, consequently, until today, Slovenia has not changed the practice of estimating the mother tongue, so in Slovenia, all entries value Italian language, rather than Slovenian, because it understands that it is the native language of students. In our case, the practice was changed last year and the Italian language was changed in Croatian by the collapse of education logic in the languages of national minorities. I want to highlight the fact that the Italian language no longer stands up for enrolment in high school where the whole class, the whole Italian teaching program. In the end, it happens similarly when you pass state graduation when, after trying to change the Italian language, the established practice of laying 4 courses for national graduations to Italian schools while all other students in Croatia have 3 items. Of course, colleges were unable to adapt so that only three items remain of value. All this is causing great discomfort between teachers and parents while students feel discriminated against. The question is simple, when will the members of the national minorities be granted their constitutional and legal right to education in the native language?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64378	Thank you very much. The respected minister, Zeljko Jovanovic, answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64379	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Representative Radin, first of all, I would like to wish the Parliament a successful work this year. Your question is on the trail of a very important problem for Croatia. We all know that the education of national minorities is in accordance with the Constitution, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, the Law on Education and Education in Language and the Letter of National Minorities, and that our national minorities have the opportunity to school from preschool to college, using this right. Otherwise, in schools we know that there are three models, model A, model B and model C, that there are three special forms that allow national minorities to use their native language. When it comes to enrolment in high school and when it comes to enrolment in colleges, the question you asked, you know well that we talked about it on several occasions in the ministry, and last summer before enrolment in high school, where one should be said, according to the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, when enrolment in high school, all children are enrolled on equal terms. This means that there are elements and criteria that always go to public debate and that the Croatian language as an official language in the Republic must be evaluated for all students enrolled in schools, which are also in the languages of national minorities. In a public debate that lasted last year, no one has questioned the question of the elements and criteria of enrollment in the first grade of high school, but somewhere in the spring of the Italian Union and the embassy came up with a question as to how you asked it, we held a meeting with you, with representatives of the Italian Union, with representatives of the embassy and suggested a compromise solution that Italian schools have the option with these criteria that are equal for all students in Croatia, and so must be because they must all be equal before the law have the possibility of further checking the knowledge of Italian language in school with Italian language. The same question was not troubled by any other national minority. We are just preparing new elements and criteria based on very successful enrolments that have given us ten million data to make the criteria for this year even more high quality, they will be in a broad public debate where members of the Italian minority but also all other minorities will be able to make constructive proposals that can be traced to this compromise solution that we have offered. As for enrolment in colleges and state graduations, state graduation is part of the content, part of the way exams are conducted in the management of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, and there we can bring some changes. I'd like to take this opportunity right now to ask me a question to remove all the dilemmas that have come up with sensationalist statements in the media to abolish the state's graduation. State graduation as well as everything has virtues and disadvantages but virtues are much greater than flaws and it represents except that the form of the evaluation of work in high schools is also an excellent anti-corruption tool for enrolment in colleges. Therefore, if you decide to enrol in colleges, then you must direct your inquiry to universities because they are autonomously deciding which items will be credited for the success of enrolment in colleges. However, what we need to know is that members of the national minorities are allowed to use the mandatory part of the Croatian language that everyone has to lay their own mother tongue and then can also choose from them two mandatory subjects of mathematics or foreign language and then be given the opportunity to either mathematics or foreign language in the electoral work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64380	Thank you very much. It's an indication of Honorable Representative Furia Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64381	I think, Mr. Minister, we disagree. On the other hand, the fact that it's a philosophical issue has given us all equal or all of us different, national minority policy and positive discrimination that we are all different but equal. Here comes the question of equality. Because if you don't respect the fact that the native language of schools is the language of that national minority, then we are in fact violating the basic value of equality. So I hope we change that practice. I didn't get that from your words, but I hope I got it wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64382	Thank you very much. The second parliamentary issue of the respected MP Martina Dalic, please welcome honourable MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64383	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Milanovic, next week, the Council of Finance will meet in Brussels and will probably or almost certainly adopt a commission proposal and open an official excessive deficit procedure compared to Croatia. The Council's procedure will require Croatia to reduce its deficit in this year and in the years to 4.6 and then to a level less than 3% of GDP in this year. In other words, the council of ministers will ask the government of the Republic of Croatia to reduce the deficit, reduce borrowing and take Croatian public finances into a more stable zone. But the situation here with us is actually quite the opposite. Croatia is on the path of a growing deficit, growing borrowing and we follow the news every day. My question is how, what measures and what economic policy efforts will be taken by the Croatian Government to react to this procedure and to the Commission's proposals and Council conclusions. In fact, the Commission's proposals, which usually always become Council conclusions at least in this part of the decision-making process, have been known for more than a month. However, the Croatian public does not know and has not yet had the opportunity to find out how, in what way and how, with what dynamics, the Croatian Government will set itself up to this important problem because the Commission's request is certainly reasonable and beneficial for the stability of Croatian finances. Therefore, I repeat, I ask you how, by what measures and order will the Croatian Government respond to the Council's demands that the Croatian deficit be reduced and reduced to sustainable and acceptable frameworks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64384	Thank you, too. The response of the respected Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64385	That's a very difficult question. And you're right about that. It won't be political or financial easy, and that's why I'm going to call on you who left a deficit that's even embarrassing to say what it was to help us with the ideas of what we're going to do because whatever we do to someone isn't going to like it but we're going to do unlike you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64386	Appreciation of Honorable Representative Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64387	Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister. We've been giving you ideas and suggestions for the past two years and we've shown you that the economic policy you've been leading and the direction of economic policy you've been taking is not good and that it will result in a further extension of the crisis. And if that were the case, I would like to give you some information, the first of them were the deficits that you were embarrassed to say, which was the most significant reason for taking over the shipbuilding debt that you entered and entered in 2011 and so be it because the shipbuilding had to be privatized and restructured and such a law was passed in this House. However, in the second half of this year since Croatia became a member of the EU, the revenues of the state budget are lower than in the second half of the 2011 pre-election for 924 million total revenues than in the period from 7 to 11 months 2011. The value added tax after all increases in rates from 7 to 11 months is lower by 864 million than in 2011. Therefore, Mr Milanovic from the HDZ bench has come up with a lot of suggestions and there has been a lot of suggestions on how and how to manage economic policy more successfully and better. I expect that you will also review part and debate in this House and part of these proposals will then implement them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64388	Thank you, too. The 3rd parliamentary issue of the respected representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64389	Thank you very much. I ask my question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. We are witnessing a collapse of the health system, from the pompously announced waiting lists and the reduced debt situation is today such, I don't know if the health minister informed you about it. The operation of the eye screen with which the minister boasts today is waiting for 590 days in Karlovac. The colonoscopy is waiting 324 days in Varazdin, the ultrasound of your favorite mayor waiting in Sisak for 372 days, the hip is waiting 580 days, the ultrasound of the breast amazing 426 days waiting in Koprivnica. Waiting lists are increasing daily by 2,000 people, today in Croatia half a million people are waiting for a variety of searches. The mayors are looking for a meeting with Minister Ostovic. I don't know if you know this information, and Minister Linic must be appalled by the fact that in 8 months, the long hospital in Croatia has been increased by an incredible 2.7 billion kuna. A dangerous experiment with shift work where operational procedures are delayed, inconspicuous consequences for the Medical Faculty, the inability to organise lectures to students due to the shift work that was introduced. You've recovered health care with $4.3 billion in two years of incredible 5 billion in a new debt. I call upon you, Mr. Prime Minister, a new chance for Croatian health care. The only new chance for Croatian healthcare is to replace Minister Rajko Ostojic. My question is whether you will serve the cry of Croatian patients and give Croatian healthcare a new opportunity.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64390	The answer to the parliamentary question is respected Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64391	I wasn't kidding when I said that I would make a personal call to the honourable representative and the last minister of finance to give us concrete suggestions that she has not made here in a single word or in a single letter. So until I hear them and see them, they don't exist for me. And as for the former Minister of Health or Health, I expect the same thing for him, and I will invite you personally to come up with concrete suggestions on what to do, which you did not do as a minister and I say it without any malice or irony, I expect from you. You don't have to answer. I don't have any influence over you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64392	Appreciation of the respected representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64393	Your answer is clear in the lack of arguments. I'm looking for a motive for your response, but as you may have suggested in your mind, you mentioned the former health minister, so maybe he'll become an ex. Why don't you think about motive and what's your motive for not really thinking if you don't think about it and probably keep the health minister in your position how, which is a public secret with other colleagues wouldn't try to destabilise your position as SDP president. But there's another reason to think about replacing the Minister of Health. Not only has there been no authority among nurses, doctors, amongst professions, among social partners, he has neither the authority of the team leading. One that announces certain measures that may be such or such, on the other side of the city his HZZO director answers, not ministers will not do so. So there is no authority to lead among her colleagues the authority to run health care, and there is no authority among Croatian patients, sisters and doctors, there is no one with whom he has not been at odds in the last year, two days or since he became Minister of Health. It is regrettable that you give Croatian patients a new chance for Croatian healthcare to be treated here in Croatia, not to wait for surgery 590 days, not to wait for colonoscopy 324 days, not to wait for the ultrasound of the heart 372 days, not to wait for hip surgery 580 days. It's embarrassing, but maybe the motive is what I said to keep it in place but you believe the health minister is doing well to destabilise your position as prime minister and president of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64394	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The 4th parliamentary issue of the respected representative Davor Bozinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64395	Thank you very much. Mrs. Opačić, you are the head of this team for government reform, the work that has been done so far has not understood that there is one comprehensive approach to reforms, structural reforms in Croatia as other countries do, and what is important for the citizens who are concerned to know what they can expect, and for the dynamics and quality of the implementation of these measures to be monitored. One of the most important elements of growth in theory and practice has been proven to be public and state administration reform. But there's no talking about it. There are some controversial measures, ad hoc measures that are presented in a way that create an illusion of a whole, but in the opinion of the profession, in the opinion of the public, they are not. It is important to encourage growth, to encourage business climate in Croatia, it is a serious business, but you and your team coordinate reforms, and in fact there is no defined whole, there is no strategy. I don't understand how it's possible to coordinate something if we don't know what measures, what deadlines, and how not a comprehensive approach. I repeat, some of the measures that have been put forward have been defined by the profession as an assumption that something is being done. My question is when and when will you publish the strategy of structural reforms, especially the public and state administration strategy in Croatia, which is, in all likelihood, the most important reform that this country needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64396	Thank you very much. Reply Honored Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64397	Well, Mr. Representative, I think that this is one of the perhaps most elaborate reform procedures so far because we have actually formed one coordinating body, we have formed one operational team, almost 70 and some people are involved in 9 reforms of which one reform has already started in public debate, it is a reform of the judiciary that is very extensive. For public sector reform, therefore, it is the separation of public sector ancillary jobs, what we call some not-Croatian term, out-courting, so we will report to the Croatian public by the end of January. In the first week of February it will already be, so there are very clear deadlines that we told the Croatian public through journalists, of course. So in the first week of February there will be the first so-called Open Door Days where all entrepreneurs along with the Employers' Association will be able to come and present everything they can offer on the Croatian market, and on the other hand it will help us to see what and on the basis of which we can do certain parameters for public competitions. Also in the first week of February will be the days of open doors for united public procurement so that we can see all those who offer some help in terms of some software that can help us to be more efficient on the one hand and on the other hand to completely remove any suspicion that someone intervened under public procurement in this or that sense, so if in hospitals computers can decide who is most vulnerable to liver transplants or other organs, I don't think there's any reason for a computer like in many large companies not to decide with certain parameters and who is the most favourable offer in terms of public procurement. We think it's the biggest possible savings in the state budget because still the largest number of things are not united in public procurement, it should be. We also form certain teams of experts from certain public administration bodies that can help us write, so a public procurement tender so that we can be there as quickly as possible and put as much together as possible so that we have some savings that are not so small. So, these are all reforms, reforms go into the social bargaining system, so that's something we should have until the 7th month, and at the 9th month, there should be a reform of the single monetary centre in which we're going to start putting all the cash fees that are paid out of the state budget. I would remind you that from the state budget, we are giving 73 different monetary fees, which should be centralized in one place, both because of the easier availability of citizens and because of the fact that we are much easier to control from the point of view of finance who gets the funds and that we have a much more just system. So here's one set of reforms, co-ordinated in one place, everyone has their own timetables, and these future plans are presented to the press at 12 months, and almost every week we have some reports showing a step forward. Therefore, each measure has its own timetable.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64398	Thank you very much. Appreciation of the respected representative Davor Bozinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64399	Madam Vice President, I asked you for a strategy. I don't know how to explain it. Let's also say for the ranks of your party, the highest places speak of examples, let's say Gerhard, Shrader, in the Federal Republic of Germany. The office then went to parliament and said, "That was 2003." He said this is a plan for structural reforms, it's called the 2010 Agenda, and it had everything in it. He opened a public debate, thus opening a political debate, and everyone knew about what he wanted to achieve, which, by means of which measures, there was a vision, there were goals, there were responsibilities. Just because you have a team doesn't mean that the reform is designed, especially when we don't have one. We can't read it, we can't put it on public debate in its integrity. Outcourting is just one of the sub-measures of possible public administration reform or state administration that has been carried out since the 1980s through a new public management programme, but we don't seem to understand it. So, you can't set up some ADHOC measures as a whole, as a round job. What about pay issues, raising efficiency in public administration? What about business orientation? So there's nothing in it. What about the organization of the state in the end?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64400	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Mile Horvat and the fifth parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64401	Thank you. I am asking the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Zoran Milanovic, and it concerns claims for the return of funds that the state has invested in rebuilding the home to returnees. Namely, the latest amendments to the Law on Special State Care were adopted by the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, which asked us to delete the discriminatory provisions set out in Article 14 of the Law. It was an obligation to move into a renovated house within 30 days, regardless of the conditions of their lives. I remind them that they had to spend the full 10 years, and they were not allowed to sell or alienate in any way or donate. The provision has brought at least 70 lawsuits against Serb returnees in the Western Slavonia and Banija areas so far. These claims require the refund of the funds invested in the reconstruction of houses and are based on pensions or on the payment of the sale of houses. We expected that eradicating this provision would solve the problem of pending lawsuits but here we can see the other procedures of the execution, the other procedures for banning the availability of the restored returnees' houses. And what is most important, although in certain cases courts are called upon to delete the provision and reject the claim made by the State of DORH continues to lodge complaints against such judgments and to the harm of returnees. I ask the Prime Minister what is the legal interest of the state to continue to conduct these proceedings against Serb returnees and thus generates additional financial costs both for these individuals and for the state? And secondly, what does the Government of the Republic of Croatia intend to do to address this problem?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64402	Thank you very much. Answer, the Honorable Prime Minister, Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64403	Dear colleague, I am pleased that you have turned your attention to this problem and this question that few people in Croatia know even less about. But you've located it very precisely and surgically. The State's Attorney's Office runs these proceedings, and the State's Attorney's Office is even when it represents the state, so not only in criminal matters, an independent and independent judicial body. Regardless of the measure that, I would say in this case unfortunately it can do any direct pressure or action towards the DORH would be interpreted as pressure on the judiciary. We have this system problem. So, I think, we believe, the government considers it a proposal, and this House sees it as a legislator that this law was not valid, so it has changed it, the government has agreed to that in its opinion. But the state's attorney's office interprets him in another way, that's their right. The only thing I can do here is appeal from the point of view of the will of the legislator that I think I understand and that I understood both the government's will and the government's intensity that took part in this process so that it would no longer be done and that it would give up. But I don't have executive instruments when it comes to DORH and even less when it comes to courts, we don't have them at all in human beings or in any other sense. So I heard what you said and I'm using this public stands to appeal to give it up, whether it's Serbs or Croats or someone else. That's all I can do right now. The amendments to the Law on State Attorney's Office are heading towards consulting the Government in matters of property. I hope someone doesn't pursue it as an unconstitutional provision. If so, I can only say that we have no authority and that I cannot take responsibility for this process.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64404	It's an indication of the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64405	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Prime Minister, I apologize. So, I think this answer of yours will be an appeal to yes, and to the DORH that it protects the interests of the state but exclusively in accordance with the positive regulations. If this amendment is incorporated into the Law on the Field of Specific State Care, it should also be binding in these cases for the DORH. I will only warn that the municipal court in Daruvar in the executive case of the Republic of Croatia against Mrs. Anka Tomic has already scheduled for the 3rd month 2014 public sale of property made by her renovated house in Prekopakra. There are more cases like this. I thank you for your reply, and I'd like to ask you a written answer if we can get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64406	Thank you very much. The 6th parliamentary issue of the respected representative Vladimir Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64407	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's your representative's question... I'd like Mr. Economy Minister Ivan Vrdoljak and first of all it's about INA. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So in the media these days, we could hear a lot about the government and MOL negotiations, first of all, about the INA. So I would ask you in short lines to inform us of the parliamentary representatives and the complete public of the Republic of Croatia what we can expect in further negotiations and the course of negotiations.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64408	Minister, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64409	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable MPs, respected MPs, yes, the negotiations at the beginning were quite hard to say, I say, slightly, the first two rounds passed in quite a confused attitude. However, I must admit that in this third round, we are still getting shifts. We agreed that in the next period that we would... Groups and working groups go into detailing positions on each issue the government has defined in its framework for negotiations with the MOL. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have, of course, launched and the arbitration process is in the public and you have heard the procedure that would protect the interests of both taxpayers and state interests but which does not affect continuing negotiations. Our priority is to complete the negotiations. And if it is possible to complete the negotiations in a way that we can agree with a strategic partner, with of course conditions that cannot be excluded from the final agreement, which is that INA is a vertically integrated Croatian company, an independent Croatian company, that INA is a market-oriented company that gives its positive contribution to the development of Croatia's economy with investments, development. And third, that 44% owner, which is the Republic of Croatia, has tools in key decisions taken on the board of directors and the Supervisory Board of INA. We will not step down from this, I think there will be faster negotiating procedures that will define the strategic objectives of INA development and meet these conditions that are initial to us so that we can bring the negotiations to an end. In parallel, arbitration procedures will also be conducted in which we think we will, in full sense, protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia, taxpayers, unfortunately interests that were not guarded a few years ago, but we are good at fixing some things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64410	Appreciation for the reply of the respected Minister Ivan Vrdoljak, respected representative Vladimir Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64411	Thank you very much for your response, Mr. Minister. I think that we can say that we are glad that this third round of negotiations finally started a story from a dead spot and what is important, that INA remains an independent company that is important to the Republic of Croatia, to all taxpayers as such because it is important in these negotiations and for certain strategic projects that are directly and which will be implemented in the Republic of Croatia, which are on hold as well. underground gas warehouses in the Grubish field and a number of other projects. Here we hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and above all the negotiating team will remain with this goal and will maintain their views, negotiate what is best for the Republic of Croatia and Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64412	Thank you, too. The seventh parliamentary issue of the respected representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64413	Thank you. A question for Deputy Prime Minister Branko Grcic. Dear Mr. Vice President, everything says that Croatia has avoided the risk of losing the European funds with which some are so persistent, they would say they are almost trying to intimidate the Croatian public. For all we know, 450 million kuna comes from European funds for regional development and cohesion funds, so from those funds that were available to us in the first half of last year. But let's put it this way, some of the opposition officials at the press conferences called you, quoting "the slow-out champion" in terms of withdrawing money from European funds. So I ask you, for the sake of truth, for the sake of the Croatian public, to answer in the Croatian Parliament that you actually give us the right information about how much money has been withdrawn from the European funds, from the European Union funds in the term of office of this Government, compared to how much has previously been withdrawn from the European funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64414	Answer the question, Deputy Prime Minister, respected Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64415	Your Honor, Mr. President, Prime Minister, my colleague. So at no point in this question was there a danger of withdrawing the money, I say to you responsibly. But what concerns me is I would say a rather irresponsible approach to making statements because this is a very serious area that does not depend solely on the current government and those who currently run the state, as it does not depend on those who currently run the local self-government units that participate in it, etc. This is a serious job where we should all stand by the same stick, catch up and contribute as we from the former opposition worked very closely together in the process of negotiating and preparing Croatia for the withdrawal of EU money when counterpart Maletic was in the state apparatus and was the responsible person, one of the most responsible for the job. And now for the data. So it's completely declassified to say that no funds have been withdrawn or that they will not be, especially in the mandate of this government that has made huge progress. So at this point of time of total arrival and... A total of 825m euros were agreed for Croatia, 74%. This is above the average of Europe, above the average at this point with the emphasis that the negotiation of these billions of euros takes place until 2016, until the end of 2016, so there is still time to agree on all this. As for the work done in this government's mandate, over the last five years, the government of the previous or previous ones has agreed 247 million, and only in two years of this government 313 million, means an increase of 127%, not 27%, but 127%. As for payments, therefore realised on the ground, in five years earlier, the government of 127m euros was paid in the field. In the term of the government, so in two years, 240m euros, that is an 187% increase. Should I comment on this? I don't think we should, so the data tells us everything. What is the third indicator of success is the permanently lost funds. When you don't contract funds for a certain year that's allocated over the next three years, you're permanently losing them. In their term of office earlier, the 2008 government's funds were lost in the amount of 40m euros after 2011, which expired in 2011. So out of 140 available, 40 is permanently lost because they're not agreed. What are we talking about? With the government's efforts, we have now reduced that amount below 5m euros, so this year the decomitment will amount to less than 5m euros, just saying again by pawning this government. And another piece of information, all the money left from IPA funds for 250m euros plus 450m euros and for the location for 2013, means a total of 700m euros launched by public procurement I expect by summer that all of this will be agreed. At some point this summer, Croatia will have implemented, during the implementation of a billion euros worth of projects. So, at some point, it will be implemented as far as we have allocated for Croatia from EU funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64416	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. Thank you very much. Appreciation of the respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64417	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64418	Thank you too, dear colleague. The eighth parliamentary issue of counterpart Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64419	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, since the 1990s, we have been free to say that the judiciary has experienced lustration. It was a great memory of the judicial staff. Even one state attorney was then killed here in the Croatian Parliament for work and for not answering his job for five days was away from duty. So the long and thorny path was from then to today, to an independent independent and self-aware judiciary. Of course, in 2000, we found a frightened judiciary because it was afraid of what would happen again and with new authorities. However, the investment and financial and the new State Judicial Council is put in place where the Domination has exactly the judicial frame which itself decides who will be admitted, who will be promoted and who will be far away. However, we also had such periods, unfortunately around 2008, the ninth, tenth year when the then prime minister directly boasted that he had issued a warrant to the state's attorney and police. Nevertheless, you see today’s day calling you directly, which is an indirect influence or pressure on the judiciary. Please tell me how you see the role of the judiciary and what you have to say about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64420	Thank you very much. Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic's reply. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64421	The constitution is clear. So, no government, no government, no government, no one else has any instruments of influence or pressure on the judiciary, no human rights, no promotional, no cases, no court presidents. Therefore, the area has been completely closed and definitely to the latest constitutional changes of 2010 that have been brought under the pressure of the European Commission and what could be discussed but no longer makes sense. That is the case and it will, by all accounts, remain that way in the Croatian Constitution. The judicial authority is independent, acting by conscience and by law, should implement the laws passed by this House on the assumption that the Parliament, on its own initiative or proposal of the Government, knows what it wants and what laws it adopts and should be a simple closed circle. Unfortunately, that's not the way it is in life and there's been a misunderstanding. Since we don't have any influence on the judiciary in any way, and whoever thinks otherwise, let him open that door for me that I won't go through but let him show me what shape it is and what means of pressure the executive authority can put on the judiciary. So, in that case, we reserve the right and document other people's work. Because if someone like us is justified on a daily basis, every minute the subject of comments, criticism, so if you want harsh statements and slanders, then anyone who does business in the public interest paid by Croatian citizens' taxpayers must be aware that they can and can be criticised especially if there is no instrument to influence or influence him. It's a golden rule of democracy for me. And as much as some object and wish that their work should not be commented and kept silent about it and thus protect one's authority, it's hard for me to accept it. Authority cannot be protected by silence or purchased on a trade, a weekly dose of authority. The authority is being built. You can't even prescribe it by law. As much as they trust us judges, judicial officials, officials, if citizens feel that there is legal certainty in courts, we will be as much as a society and as a state of gravity. So it is important to stress neither us nor the previous government that has long been in power have at this time or in the future when once that door is locked practically no instruments of influence on the judiciary. Independence and independence must not become a responsibility. We saw an interesting debate the other day within the judicial officials and their circles where one or some talk about pressures, and four or five times as much of them come down with their shoulders and say there's no pressure. It's good for the public to see it, so it's good that both the judicial officials and the judges are in front of the public like we are because we're not protected by any weeds or curtains. Here we are exposed to daily commentary, we make important decisions and judges also make important decisions and are subject to review and supervision by their colleagues. It's a pear control, so it's a pretty closed system. The public needs to know, she needs to be aware. We need to learn that politics is not a chair, it's simply a difficult competitive activity and courts shouldn't deal with politics, but there's no way to ban it, to narrow it down. Therefore, everyone is at the end of his conscience. Is that good or wrong about it we might be talking about in 15 years someone else and not us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64422	Appreciation of the respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Thank you very much. The ninth parliamentary issue, the respected advocates of Maria Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64424	Thank you very much, President. Question of Culture Minister Andrei Zlatar Violić. Dear Ministers, retired in Zrinski Topolovac in Bjelovarsko-Bilogor County, also in Osijek-Baranja County and do not believe the difference large in other counties, single monthly pension in the year only to pay the fee to HRT. In these municipalities, the lowest average pensions in Croatia are paid in these counties and amounting to 1100 kuna, while at the annual level the Croatian tax is 960 kuna. Taking into account GDP in the Republic of Croatia by the head of the Croatian population, the rate paid by Croatian citizens is highest in all European Union countries. HRT tax is as you know 80 kuna per month which is 1.5% of the average net salary in the Republic of Croatia for all as well as for pensioners whose average pension is 2.5 times lower than the average salary. On average pension under the Pension Insurance Tax Act is 3.6%, on average family pension 4.3% and on average at the lowest pension of almost 6%. As a result, these low-income users are often subject to an inability to pay a fee because there are no exceptions to this property censorship. My question, as well as the proposal from HSU, is why the same price for single and family pensioners who exist in the payment of the additional health insurance tax where the basis for the calculation would be the tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64425	The reply of the respected Minister Andree Zlatar Violic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64426	Thank you very much for asking, Your Honor. Dear President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, you all know that our public television is charged through household tax, not personal income. This question was raised in this same room in the Assembly in 2010 when the Law on HRT and 2012 were adopted when some amendments were amended and complemented. The basis for the possibility of this change would be that instead of the subscription to the household it would be transferred to a personal subscription. You know that the basic model is that one household no matter how many members there are or how many television receivers there are that have been paid equal pay for a while. In view of the figures we have, which is about a million and 200 almost regularly those who pay, households that pay the subscription and given the number of pensioners we have, we can make it relatively easy to simulate as much and to what extent and to what extent it could possibly go into the reduction process. But what we can't regulate by any law is the question of applying because we can imagine, so looking at demographic data given the number of pensioners, how many of these households would just be placed as a subscriber. In any case, I agree that we must worry about those most exposed to this society in the existential and financial crisis. After the unemployed, these are pensioners with the lowest and low incomes. However, we should have a very firm record of that only applies to those households if it is a current subscription to households, not to individuals of those households where it is exclusively a retirement household, whether it is a single member or that it is more members of the pension status. Your proposal certainly keeps me constructive and I think we can do a financial simulation that would show through numbers and of course ways of keeping a record. The whole thing in Europe is changing today and considering a series of models, somewhere where it's the simplest thing to do is to pay by paying for television with an electric connection to electricity. But that's where the lawsuits came in, that model's not quite sure. In some countries, there is a personal subscription, especially when it comes to the developed system today, of other technical models that can receive a signal program, and then if it is a personal subscription and not a household, then it is possible to fully implement a model of financial censorship. Therefore, the basis is the individualisation of access and, of course, the financial and implementation simulation to make it look. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64427	Thank you very much. Appreciation of the esteemed representative of Maria Ilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64428	I thank the esteemed ministers, but the question and the problem for the pensioners is certainly about a thousand kunas in the course of one year, and I would ask you once again to talk about this solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64429	Thank you, too. The 10th parliamentary issue today and respected representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64430	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. President of the Croatian Government. This is how now that I'm listening to this session today, and I'm not sure if we're all aware of the general state of society, do we know what's out there outside of this room? Everything's great, everything's great, everything's great, it's a little different out there. Half the term has passed, practically no room for excuses anymore. What marks today Croatian society is apathy, depression, hopelessness, these are just some of the expressions to describe the situation. What the citizens describe to the government is hopelessness, wandering, internal conflicts, the leadership of the state through the media. So it turns out that the government is active in its work. The number of unemployed rises, factories fail, new ones don't open, the village is ahead of destruction. In the International Year of Family Agricultural Economics, thousands more will likely perish in Croatia. I believe and hope it won't be forever, but it will be able to recover. Debts in hospitals as we've heard are not shrinking but growing, teachers are asking for the minister's resignation. Instead of decentralisation, rough centralisation is being carried out, instead of strengthening local self-government, state red tape is being strengthened. These are all questions that require answers and concrete answers. To try to create a better climate in society, to improve that climate, I ask you a question, Mr. Prime Minister. Do you have the strength to admit that you have failed to help call the opposition, and to the government instead of some incompetent ministers to bring in experienced experts and give them the freedom to offer solutions to get out of the crisis?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64431	Thank you very much. The response of the respected Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64432	My dear colleague, after we won the democratic elections, I didn't live for a day in the illusion that each of those almost million votes that the citizens gave us is something that could last for more than a month. But even with those millions of votes, it never occurred to me to anyone or to you who received one term in the House to interpret how citizens feel and what the citizens think. I don't have that right, and I don't have that kind of pretentiousness, and I don't have that kind of arrogance in the way that they bother me, but here you are interpreting how citizens feel about it. So since you're telling us that we're saying everything is wonderful, which we've never said but never exactly the opposite that it's difficult and complicated and that we may need not consensus but support because politics can't be built on consensus except in the most critical moments of a nation's life, I'm going to take this opportunity to look back at a historical example that seems to me a little carelessly mentioned Mr Bozinovic when he asked questions about reforms. He mentioned the 2010 Agenda if I'm not mistaken and Schroeder's former German Chancellor, who everyone knows, I don't know if anyone had a chance to talk to him and talk to him, I did, and I did that informally a year ago, and before that I read a lot about it. The reforms called for by the former minister, and now the HDZ representative, are an example of how a large, conscious and responsible nation, if they can thus express themselves with such an reach, can reach an agreement on the fundamental issues of social development. It was in 2003 and after that speech and the programme that he made, which was all but social democratic in the classical understanding of the word, and in the area of social and health care included many cuts as well as tax cuts, so a complete turn of German social policy, the policy of the unemployed, something that was so far incompatible with social democracy. You know who supported it among the first? Demonstrists. The result was almost an insurrection in the Social Democratic Party, calming down, the 2005 elections received by the Democrats, but the gods and the Social Democrats lagged by 1.2%, which is responsible behavior. Can we expect him from you, too? Are you ready to say that if the measures we propose and we implement, which are largely in line with the 2010 Agenda, you will be only 10 years late that you too, if you do not already provide support, will be at least correct? Can we expect that, that's the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64433	It's an indication of the esteemed representative of Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64434	So I didn't quite get the answer to the question of whether you were ready to invite experts to the government, but I don't know if you're aware that these are one of the most critical moments for the nation when you mentioned it, that the situation is really catastrophic, that citizens are asking for something to change that they hope for. You can tell me that the HSS has one mandate and you can say that you got a million votes in the election, all that's true, but you can't argue that I'm not saying what people tell me is what people are warning me about, what they're complaining about. Do a survey among the citizens, go among the people, you'll hear what they're saying. You may be moving in that chosen circle of those who are well. I move among peasants, workers, among the good part and the poor, among those who do not see hope, among the young who are about to go out, that's a fact. So these are Mr. Prime Minister's most critical moments for the Croatian nation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64435	Thank you very much. 11th parliamentary issue today and respected representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64436	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm asking the Minister of Entrepreneurship and crafts Mr. Gordan Maras. In view of Mr. Minister's great interest of entrepreneurs in the competition of the Operational Programme for Regional Competition, and as we witness, this is also of great interest for workshops where more and more is always sought. That's why I'm asking you a question when can you and when to announce the next competition, or how much funds will the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and craft have to share? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64437	Honorable Minister Gordan Maras answers the parliamentary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64438	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Thank you for asking, and the fact is that this tender that you mentioned the first competition from EU structural funds is worth 255 million kuna where Croatia's entrepreneurs are extremely interested, over a thousand have appeared at workshops that we organise and help them prepare for the project. And I said, and there have been speeches about structural funds, Croatian entrepreneurs will be one of those who will receive the most from the European Commission from the Structural Funds. And that is why I am glad that I can announce a tender that will go immediately after this, so by the end of the year a production tender will be opened and for Croatian exporters the largest in the history of the Republic of Croatia is worth 230m euros, so a billion and 700 million kunas will be opened by the end of the year, and all interested small and medium-sized entrepreneurs will be able to report. So these are direct benefits that Croatia will use from EU structural funds for the benefit of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and I am glad to hear the voices of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, these thousands who are satisfied with such projects, so I am convinced that we will be able to do these things together and benefit the Croatian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64439	Thank you, too. The obvious of a respected representative, nothing, thank you very much. The 12th parliamentary issue of the respected representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64440	Thank you. Here's a question for the Prime Minister, Mr Milanovic. Here, Mr. Milanovic, how do you assess the two-year term of your interior minister, Mr. Ranko Ostojic? In order to assess it, and I will now list a few things by which I have judged his mandate during this period. So, firstly, at the beginning of the term of office, only under public pressure did he agree to move out of the apartment of the largest taxpayer, Mr. Ninoslav Pavic, who was evident, referred to a possible conflict of interest. A political cleanup by the head of county and police administrations was also carried out, then among these new ones, several fell in relatively short time due to corruption scandals. Then we have a case of arrests, i.e. the arrest of the journalist of the proturemist right-wing journalist on very strange charges and very strange circumstances. Every arrest of journalists in democratic states is much higher. It's been so long in Croatia. Then we have a case of the purchase of very luxurious, ultra-luxurious SUVs, 132 pieces were purchased, a single price of 550 thousand kuna for the needs of the MUP, with another offer for more than 30 million kunas more favourable. Then we have a case of forced hospitalisation and closure of a proturegic member from the NGO sector, Mr. Preciskovic and forced hospitalisation for publication on the facebook. Then we have a budget breach of the MUP where the minister actually, with not transparent spending part of the funds, has one of the biggest budget breakthroughs in the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64441	Thank you very much. Answering the parliamentary question, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64442	Dear colleague, I no longer remember if it was you or your colleague a little under the other... up there in the gallery, which you accused the President of the Republic that his parents had moved into the apartment from which the Jewish family had been kicked out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's the worst thing I've ever heard in this House, and competition is terrible. What you're saying is unserious. Give me a minute, I don't mean it. Tell me if you think the police are implementing as you have repeated the regime policy several times, which is a very ugly term. There has been no such thing in Croatia for a long time. Tell specific examples, what you have stated is unfortunately, and fortunately, nothing at all. Therefore, I suggest you apply and apply your words in the way your colleagues from the club have done in the last half of the year. They used to be a little stronger, to act as you acted and in the phase of the negotiations changes to the Croatian Constitution, of which you gave up the last moment from me completely unclear reasons, which is why we didn't call you back then, we won't now. We hope that you are people of word and attitude, which is very important because in this country you are needed, including in the Assembly, a critical mass of people who will not succumb to the noise and to the roar but will make responsible decisions and also responsible decisions on the non-depreciation of the serious crimes that removes all possible, all possible obstacles to the extradition of all those who may be responsible for something. The rules on the referendum, we await your proposal, you have agreed to the last version of the proposal, if it is too ambitious, make your proposal. We count on you, the accounts of both Croatian citizens and your voters and beware of political gossip, especially if they are so ugly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64443	Appreciation of the respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64444	Thank you. Yeah, so I'm going to repeat one more question. The question was not what you answered, the question was how do you evaluate the two-year work of Interior Minister Ranko Ostojic with these light motives that I cited. Since I'm not happy with your answer, I'd like to ask you a written answer, and you've gone to a whole other topic. So as far as the first question you mentioned about President Josipovic is concerned, I wasn't the one. Secondly, as far as the way I'm going to talk and what I'm going to say, I really don't think it's in your jurisdiction for you as an executive official to tell a representative in the Croatian Parliament what they're going to talk about, how they're going to talk and that you're setting the limits of where and what they're going to talk about. Among the cases I forgot to mention, I will also mention the case of Mr Darko Pajic, who was beaten in Vukovar, i.e. he was injured under very strange circumstances, where Interior Minister Ranko Ostojic said she had ruled on rakija. It should be discussed whether such statements, statements in such unfortunate cases, are appropriate and welcome by the executive authority. And in the end, I think I'm asking a written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64445	Thank you very much. The 13th parliamentary issue, the respected representative of Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64446	Thank you very much. I ask the question to the Prime Minister, Mr Milanovic. The question is similar to what Mr. Milinovic was saying, since we are both doctors, so given the current events, I cannot pass the issue. Namely, about 300 doctors are looking for a printout from the Croatian medical chamber and packing suitcases for work abroad. 365 doctors are in court for a known affair. Unnecessarily and ineffectively reduced health contributions from 15% to 13%, although health debts are accumulated and are now worth billions of kuna. The list of waitings for various types of searches expected by citizens has increased about half a million Croatian citizens by 4 times, from the occasion. The monthly hospital census has been reduced by about a third. Let's say the Slavonian ship's hospital had a monthly censorship of spending of 20 million kunas and now there are 14 million kunas despite all the efforts of the tele-distributed Sanacia director can't be made out of something. Participation of announcements of an increase in participation, an immunological institution, found the Bank's centre in 50 million kuna from the government but the immune institution goes into bankruptcy even though it is not quite the portfolio of Mr. Ostojić directly. Outsourcing which is so often used is more out, it knows employees who work in emergency services at the hospital to wait them out and increase the number of unemployed and precisely due to outsourcing and giving outsourcing in private hands. Master plan, no one knows what the master plan is, first is Slavonia etc. Question, not like Milinovic, will he say if you will, it's not in mine Won't you? When will you take over the competent health minister? [[- Intruder, president: Finish your esteemed representative.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64447	Thank you very much. The President-in-Office of the Government, Zoran Milanovic, answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64448	Dear colleague, you said that despite all the efforts of the Sanacia manager, the situation is not going well, so I quote you well, which means that you recognize and recognize the efforts. That's nice to meet you. So while there is and not only in one place, the system has a chance of making progress, not just survival. It's a complete system. I haven't heard from you again, unfortunately, as either of your former ministers or any concrete proposal, whichever one you've stopped is not popular. Will you support us if we go before this House publicly with proposals... The German Social Democrats ten years ago or you will invite people to the street as a doctor, doctor, politician, a member of the European Parliament or observer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Will you do it? Can we count on your support? That's the same kind of question you asked me. When am I going to change the minister? And I ask you when you will support the rationalization of a system that no government can implement alone, without counting on people to be unhappy, dissatisfied because we, as a society, unfortunately promised a whole series of things, generational ones that we cannot pay for and in that preservation of some social tissue and fundamental relationships in society and some reasonable expectations and even emotional expectations that people may have and need, and we should have your support. With or without her, we will change things as we change them. At first, from the very beginning in the field of fiscal policy, fiscal discipline, financial discipline in the country, everything that can be done decisively immediately. What you're talking about are complex systems that have accumulated losses for years and decades and with no concrete ideas, I can only see your question as a legitimate political provocation, but tell me what and tell me if you will support us in the measures that advanced states are carrying out and did not fall apart after that, but have become even more competitive with a larger number of jobs. As far as the doctor is concerned, every doctor here from Croatia is a pity and regrettable because a lot of kuna has been invested in education that is free but you can't tell people how to move, have free movement and that's the world we live in. We will do everything to make good doctors, surgeons, interns, general family medicine doctors a very important function, a very important specialization fundamental stay here to be satisfied with this status but a miracle we cannot promise. We need your support and at least not obstruction and concrete ideas please nice.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64449	Thank you very much. Appreciation of the respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64450	Mr. Prime Minister, you're talking about the support we're supposed to give you, and when your minister called for a conversation, let's talk about what or who or what to support, never. In these two years, never. Secondly, you're talking about your verbal equilibristics, you're talking about rationalizing health care. So whether the rationalization in healthcare is the procurement of 37 artificial breathing apparatus ECMO apparatus, so there aren't so many devices that have twice as many, twice as many residents. Slovenia has two appliances, it is rationalization. 200 thousand euros to the French for advisory services, 600 million kuna ministerial assistants and others have a total consultation fund and another French 200, you're talking about rationalization. Did you know that by doing shift work, you're destroying surgical professions in the Republic of Croatia? Neither surgery nor urology nor gynecology, nor any other surgical branch, can be singled out. I know that you may not have enough knowledge about this for professional reasons, but then you can't say as you said doctors are quitters, because as your government voices come to steal the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia through duty and overtime. Don't ever say that again, change Minister Ostojić, he deserves it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64451	Thank you very much. 14th parliamentary question and respected representative Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64452	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I refer my question to the vice-presidents of the government and the minister of social policy and young Mrs Milanka Opačić. Madam Minister, the new Social Care Act prescribes the obligation of persons with disabilities to the right of guaranteed minimum compensation to respond to the work for the benefit of the local self-government units. Since there are still quite a number of disabled people with disabilities, I would like to know whether there is a possibility that non-employees are employed as assistants to disabled persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64453	Answer, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64454	... [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64455	Please join the esteemed vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64456	So the needs of people with disabilities are much greater than what we're providing right now. I must say that in the last year, we managed to provide 80 assistants more for people with the highest degree of physical damage, which was one shift in the situation where those budgets were very limited. On the other hand, since 1.1 this year we have returned full disability to children who go more than 4 hours, so children with damages that go more than 4 hours to school or kindergarten, which has not been the case so far. As far as this community service is concerned, I think he may be of mutual benefit. People who are able to work, who cannot get a job and who are forced to be dependent on social care can be useful primarily for people with disabilities but also for third-aged people who can also help with their activities and their work. It's at least 30 hours a month. And on the other hand, I think it'll help those people themselves. In fact, all research and analysis shows that unemployed people who have been active and who spend a long time spending on the welfare system are people who become a little bit and sick because they are considered social and every sense excluded. And I think that actually this involvement in the social community and that they will be able to contribute to something and do something that will also be of great help to them. So I think it's socially beneficial work, something that could be both good and good and help a few people with disabilities and also third-aged people or solve any other problem in the community that representatives or citizens themselves have in local self-government units, but on the other hand, unemployed themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64457	Thank you very much. We are going to the 15th parliamentary issue of the respected representative of Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64458	Thank you, Mr. President, so my question is for Mr. Milanovic. Mr. Prime Minister, over the past year, my party colleagues and I have been trying to get a personal answer from you about what your economic plan is. As the economy is increasingly collapsing, we ask you here, in the past current hours that you measure and how you see next year. Unfortunately, to this day, we have not received a single too many answers from you. So today, neither my ambition nor my expectation of you is to get a reply again, and we haven't gotten the answer to the question of colleague Daliæ, so we haven't heard what you really think and how you see it. You probably think that Croatian citizens are not interested in answering these questions, or you may not have an answer. And it's obvious that you don't have an answer since last current hour alone, 20 thousand more people are new unemployed. Compared to two years ago when you took over 60 thousand people's mandate is more on the stock market. The economy is falling apart, industrial or industrial production is approaching the two-digit figures. About 4 months ago in this same assembly, you made fun of yourself when we warned you that the number of unemployed people could get close to 400 thousand and it's obvious and you laughed at it and it's evident that we're getting close to it. Now, my question should have been quite simple, that question should have been whether you and those people who advise you in the economy, but given all we've heard from you today is actually my question, did not you in this assembly today admit to the Croatian public that you had neither the knowledge nor the courage to implement the reforms and actually asked the opposition for help.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64459	Thank you very much. Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64460	The answer is no.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64461	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64462	The answer you expected. And after two years of mandate and everything you've done and failed to do, you couldn't actually win, because it's the only thing that can happen in the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64463	Thank you very much. We are going to the 16th parliamentary issue of the respected representative Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64464	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I'm asking Mr. Finance Minister Slavko Linic. Mr Minister, the aim of the adoption of the Financial Business Act and the pre-departure settlement was to enable debtors who were insolvent to be restructured in order to become liquid and solvable on the one hand. On the other hand, there are conditions for creditors to be better charged for their claims than for a bankruptcy procedure to be opened. Since it's been almost a year and a half since the law was passed, my question is, how many companies have left to do business, how many jobs have been saved, and what would have happened if the pre-fashion settlements hadn't happened and they weren't there at all? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64465	Minister Slavko Linic's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64466	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The start of the coalition government's mandate, led by President Milanovic, was a worrying, blocked account near 43 billion kuna. A huge number of losses in companies, the over-indebted debt so far that own capital was not enough for companies to function normally and to prepare for exit from the crisis and entry into the European Union market. This was the reason why we made a decision in this House regarding the Financial Business Act that was to define payment deadlines and pre-demand settlements. In the implementation of 2013 we can speak with the date with January 21st requests for a pre-profit settlement, 5 thousand 911 entities were sent to the government. And when we look at that number, then we realize how much this law has affected the interest of the private economy. Of the 5,000 911 demands in that year, 4000 924 or almost 84% were resolved. Which means it has shown the full efficiency of the administration to address the submitted demands and also the enormous effort of all the believers to agree on pre-accession settlements. Unfortunately, the number of positively solved is only worrying, 1452 positively solved cases that only indicate that only 25 to 30% of solved cases, means that most of the economy has gone bankrupt and will pass the bankruptcy phase. Of these 1452, what is important is that the court has already resolved 673 cases, and some 770 cases are yet to be resolved. Therefore, everything goes on within the deadlines, everything happens in such a way that fast-tracking procedures give creditors a chance to part of the debtors to survive and in essence it was a battle for jobs. Somewhere, the overall requirement, which has been positively resolved, speaks of 37,000 employees who will be able to continue their business. But one more thing is that in the settlement procedures, when we talk about these positively solved items, 23 billion kunas of agreed claims are in debt consolidation. So it's about methods where really believers can help debtors survive the five-year crisis that was in the previous period, which means that I am the law, law enforcement, the results of the law are those that showed full justification and we can say that in 2014 it will be controversial cases because a more or less complete system will be completed during January and February of this year. Thus, the survival of people is ensured, as well as the regularity of payments. The latest data on blocked accounts is 33 billion 500.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64467	Thank you very much, Minister. Appreciation of the esteemed representative of Vesna Fabiančić. Would you like some? Thank you very much. There isn't. Honorable representative Lidija Bagaric, 17th question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64468	I thank you, Mr. President. I would also ask the Minister of Finance Mr. Slavko Linic. Dear Minister, a picture has been created in public lately as you leave the Republic of Croatia for additional borrowing. So can you tell us exactly how much we're in charge and how we plan to repay these debts? The Croatian public is familiar with the announcement of budget rebalancing, so I ask you whether the announced rebalancing may be touching wages and pensions, whether existing taxes will be changed or where you plan to seek the necessary funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64469	Thank you, too. Minister Slavko Linic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64470	So let's stick to these last questions about rebalancing. With the first European Commission announcements that the European Commission will make recommendations and measures that need to be implemented in the Republic of Croatia, and regarding the excessive deficit, the Government is currently responding. In preparation of the budget and budget rebalancing for '13. And in '14. The government adopted short - term measures at its session on 26.9. The short-term measures will now be put into the budget to reduce the expenditure side. Also, it is aware that the growth of 1.3% planned for 2014 without stronger national investment, but not in the infrastructure except in the railways, but in most of the real sector, which means the energy sector. At its meetings of 12.12., the government specifically discussed the investment plan for 2014. And what is long, full of four months in the government is preparing these are measures of education reform, in social, in administration, in health care, in the judiciary. All these measures were taken by the Government at its meeting on 27.12. This just means that at the meeting of the 28th month of ECOFIN, when and determine the measures, the Government will react with a proposal for a rebalancing of the plan, I suppose, in February of the month, so you will be able to see the results of all these measures in the budget itself. But it is evident that the last four months the Government has been intensively, many activities, and it is very much dealing with the response to the measures and recommendations we expect so that before April of the month when the European Commission's evaluation of the Government programme will be given in the spring semester in the competence of the European Commission we will have more or less discussed both at the level of the Government and at the level of the Croatian Parliament. What is important to say is that all the measures envisaged will try to avoid the reduction of salaries in the public and state sector and especially the touching of pensions, for the simple reason that pensions are already at social level and impossible to reduce, and the problem is the number of pensioners and the huge deficit in the pension system. And on the other hand, when we talk about wages, then we know that in the past two years we've had a rationalization in part.... Therefore, all these measures that we will specify through the budget will probably be reported through the budget rebalancing that we really want to put into the procedure in February to see the results of the measures that have otherwise been adopted and implemented. Also, what I want to stress is that, last year, it ended with 214 billion total debt, but that total debt is the result of the government's work because we have restructured, privatized shipbuilding, restructured, privatised railways, air traffic, and it has also been done in other companies with which the state manages. The result of a former disorder is an enormous task and a leap in this task. So, so much so that we can figure out where this dubiosis came from.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64471	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Appreciation for a respected representative? Nothing. Thank you very much. The eighteenth parliamentary issue, the respected representative Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64472	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. I refer my question to the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Regional Development and EU funds. The government accepted the 2014 Investment Plan, which expects total investment of 73.1 billion kuna. According to the plan, investment from the state budget of public enterprises is expected to amount to 20.9 billion kuna, and private sector is expected to invest in 52.2 billion kuna. As regards public investment, the most expected are investment in transport, especially in railways, railways, energy and water supply systems. When we talk about private investment, you mention 7 channels to help private investors. Whether the investment plan is based on prepared projects, and what measures the government is helping private investors and what their response is to report projects and requests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64473	Answer to the question of the respected Deputy Prime Minister Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64474	Dear Mr. President, colleague, colleague and colleague. So it's not worse to repeat that this government has a strategy and that all the time we're saying three are key pillars. One is the fiscal consolidation that Minister Linic was talking about and what he keeps talking about. The second is the reforms that must contribute to this fiscal consolidation, which is what counterpart Opacic is talking about and leading the segment. And of course this third one, one of the key investments is to wake up and return to the path of recovery. This is what is a pledge to economic growth with this stabilisation and the establishment of a macro-economic balance. It's a strategy of this government, and we're going to repeat that to those who don't hear it, somehow sit in their ears and actually understand what this is about. Now, in these three segments, different measures are being implemented from the introduction of order to the resolution of liquidity, solving inherited problems through pre-fashion settlements as one of the instruments that has started to produce some first results in these months. Then through economic recovery, through strengthening the business climate, through new legislation that regulates the promotion of investment through the Strategic Investments Act, which aims to boost large investments, etc. etc. So, a bunch of solutions that this government has offered, and I must say the same, regardless of whether there will be any further questionnaires, we are still below zero in these two years, but significantly less and significantly less lagging behind the EU average for the EU than it has been in all five years of recession. That's the facts. So, at the time of the ninth, tenth, eleven years, we were between 1 and a half and a half percentage points behind economic growth in the EU. We're behind only 0.5 today, and that's a fact. Therefore, there is still some stabilisation as the effect of all these measures the government is taking. All serious analysts are forecasting us for next year's growth. What he'll be like now is a question, but growth is projected. So the effect will be for this year yes, 2014. And now just a few more words about this key part of investment. Yeah, we've put a big emphasis on public investment. Public investment, according to our Statistics Institute, contributed significantly to the stabilisation of GDP in the first three quarters in the last three quarters as much as they grew five years later and for the first time. After a 40% decline, investment for the first time increased and contributed to GDP. And now that trend must continue. It must continue not only through the public sector, but through the private sector. Despite all the black forecasts it still encourages is a published index of business climate or a better word of confidence that speaks about the statement of our entrepreneurs, Croatian entrepreneurs about the state and expectations in 2014 where they first say we feel that something is changing and today we are more willing to invest than it was yesterday or yesterday. They said it. And I believe that, and I think that still this year, the private sector will move significantly in terms of investments, and we all these seven Khans that I've spoken about publicly, so I'm not going to repeat them now and there are more than 7 of them, and we're going to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64475	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. The obvious? Nothing. Let's go to 19 questions. This is Vice President of the Parliament, the esteemed Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64476	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The question is for the Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Milanovic. In all the years of your government you have not even mentioned, let alone to do something about the most intelligent policy and show concern for the demographic development of Croatia. Every year about 10,000 Croatian citizens die more than they are born, 5% of children are born every year, and the Croatian population is getting older and we become a little bit of the oldest countries in the world. In such a terrible economic situation as you have brought Croatia and the elderly population, the question is who will work in Croatia in the future, who will fix them and ensure the economic prosperity of this country, its development and its future, who will ensure the existence of its remaining citizens. Compared to 2001, as many as 1500000 citizens live in Croatia. In 50 years with that trend, there'll be a million less of us. Only because of the natural depopulation, so without every day growing emigrations, Croatia loses more than 25,000 inhabitants each year, which means that one city of the size of Bjelovar disappears. And the statisticians predict that they will soon return to the number of residents they lived in 100 years ago. Will you at least start working on a National Population Policy Strategy that should be an integral part of the Croatia Development Strategy, which your government also does not have? Would you, more importantly, be hasty to start implementing at least some measures to promote the birth and demographic recovery of Croatia in order to at least slow down if it did not stop the depopulation of Croatia, especially some of its parts. So far, you've only introduced measures aimed at the opposite population, counter-natal, for example to patch up the gaps in the budget since 1.01 this year, you've increased VAT on baby food. Does anyone really think that raising children's food will save Croatia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64477	Thank you, too. Answer, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64478	The strategy will be over this year, but a strategy in such serious matters cannot be treated in such a devious and primal way. You said we brought the country into a difficult economic situation. Listen, that's not true. So our government has taken over the state in a state of severe recession and I believe this year we'll get it out of that recession. Therefore, we stick to the basic facts. Now that you're reading the question, that could have been exactly what you wrote in there. So we can take responsibility and take responsibility for what we're doing and for what we've done or haven't done in these two years but to say that we've brought the country into a difficult economic crisis and the situation like you said, I quote, it's simply not true. You might think we're incompetent, that we're better or worse, but we stick to the basic facts. The problem of demographics, of course, will not be solved by such cheap incursions. It is a problem that kills a large part of Europe and even a rich and super-organized Germany and countries that have succeeded under the supposed signs of "resolve" have almost without exception made it an active immigration policy, which is already something that requires a very broad social consensus, historical circumstances and another state of consciousness from what we have. I'm not proposing an active immigration policy because a nation of 4.5 million people is simply not ready and will never be. Great nations, like the British and French as former colonial forces, have this integrational ability that also has its limits. Germany doesn't, and they're aware of that. So in Germany, citizenship is not as easy as in some other countries. The result is that in 20 and 30 years or 50 years, the Germans will be 65, not 82 million as they are today. Is that bad? Well, at first glance, it's bad. We've had a problem that's been killing us for 20 years, but we're not going to solve it with such petty exhibition. Neither did your government. You didn't do anything about it. So far, we're a failure. But hope is new jobs, quality jobs, more employees, and whether there are 5 or 4 million of us or 4 million of us have to live well, that's the point of the story.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64479	Obviously, the esteemed vice president of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64480	Of course everything can be baffled and when there is no answer to whether anything has been done and nothing has been done in 2 years, then, of course, as in many other things, you can draw attention to it. Today you have either rejected any answer or asked the opposition how they could solve it, let them have ideas. It would be possible to accept that the first day of your term, however, is two years of your term of office, but even the first day you had to have some kind of program and you wondered after two years to give you good advice on how to proceed. But you mentioned that salvation would be immigration policy. On the contrary, emigration should be prevented, and that is a key problem. So are you aware that every day because of the economic situation thousands of people are moving away with their stomachs after bread from Croatia because of the complete breakdown of the economy. Are you aware that we seem at the beginning of a re-mass exodus of Croatian peoples as there were several in the past. However, unlike that economic emigration about one century ago or the other about half a century ago, unfortunately now Croatia is not leaving just poorly educated physical workers but leaving mostly young highly educated, best, most capable of which much has been invested. Those who were supposed to be the future of Croatia. At this time, more than 375 thousand unemployed, as many as there are at this time, really do not see any indication that Croatia has any hope, and that is bad. That, of course, you didn't give a single answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64481	Thank you, too. The 20th parliamentary issue of a respected counterpart, Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64482	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, Mr. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I refer my question to the vice-presidents of the Croatian government and the minister of social policy and youth. Dear Madam Ministers, in the past year, you've been auditing social assistance users and she's shown enormous abuses in the system, which is why you've finally experienced some personal inconveniences. Since the first of January of this year, there has been a networking of the social care system with other state institutions which should further facilitate the control and detection of abuses, i.e. the detection of those who for years in a non-transparent and illegal manner have gained personal material benefit at the expense of those who really needed this assistance. So my question is, how many so far have false users been discovered in the welfare system and how much money has been stolen from the state and denied to those who really needed that money? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64483	Thank you, too. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Milanka Opacic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64484	Yes, the revision is something that should actually be daily activity and very continuous and it will now be made possible precisely because of what you have said that all systems will be networked and shared, or the exchange of information will be possible at this time for all those public bodies that have the information. Very soon a law will come before you that will open the space so that we do not have to sign any certificates and in this way waste time, but with the automation of all institutions it will actually be mandatory to share information with each other in order to bring down as little measure as possible those who play the system. As far as the welfare system is concerned, we found about 7,000 users who were taking rights or for a person who was long dead or who had been employed, on the other hand they did not inform the center, so they took social benefits, so definitely people who were not allowed to take those rights. It's about 40 million kunas in the state budget at the annual level. Unfortunately, they're not savings, they're money that we've rerouted to other people because we got about tens of thousands of new social benefits users and that 40 million is directed towards them. As of this year, it will help us to introduce order and another new form that has created a bit of confusion in the first 15 days, but it is indeed something that will be very useful and is now being stalked so much it needs to be a little bit patient, it is a JPPD pattern, we call it, a new form in which all incomes that are not paid will be seen, so all that people receive during the month as some other kind of income, it will allow us to line up with those rights where we have only income censorship. So, for us some people had very high incomes during the month or over the year, they showed us minimal incomes, and thus through income censorship they took away certain rights that are also now no longer power. Very soon we will present to the Croatian public some more of our activities in which we have also found certain users but on the details of the moment when we know them all so that really in this system was a very big mess. The most important thing for us is that the money that we have, which is limited, is really given to those people who need it most, thanks to the removal of this number of people, we are also but also by uniting all social benefits now in one fee guaranteed a minimum fee we couldn't increase the singles by 200 kuna to their compensation. So, some have taken our rights and lived very well, on the other hand, a 600 kuna poor woman literally couldn't live, and these are the people who are looking for their lunch or dinner in containers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64485	Thank you very much. The obvious of a respected representative, nothing, no obvious. Now, we're gonna take a break by 12 o'clock, and we're gonna continue with 21 parliamentary questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64486	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue with questions. 21st question, colleague Branko Vuksic. My colleagues and colleagues, please, please ensure that our colleague Vuksic can ask a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64487	The question to the Prime Minister, Zoran Milanovic, will be supported by three details in three current problems. Two essentially elemental problems you have turned both rhetoric and action into a first-rate event, and one first-rate event into an ephemeral event. Vesna Skara Ozbolt replaced former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader because she refused to appoint Ivan Turudic as the president of the Zagreb County Court and did not want to appoint him because he did not want to be proposed by the Supreme Court. Turudic finally put the pressure on Sanader. Turudic is therefore the last person to be able to teach lessons about political pressures in court. It was tiring to watch the hammering board with the Croatian coat of arms in Vukovar. It's a pain in the ass to listen to a stream of congestive impatience towards anyone who thinks differently. It's hard to see the riots of headquarters as well as Racan's governments destabilise power, this time because of the letter. However, it is even more painful to listen to the insufferable ease of the minister of defence of capital and capitalist Miranda Mrsic advocates as easily as possible the layoff of workers. The process of legalising slavery begins, reports high sources, tomorrow's government meeting, at which, without agreement with trade unions, workers will be found unacceptable by the Labour Act. It has been known since the age of the nursing congregations that democracy is a public eternity, a rule of conversation. Even though a statesman, you chose not state monologues, and such a weak faith in the judiciary, you weaken even more. Instead of being above both Turudic and Chief of Staff, you're going to have an inappropriate fight. From more state, and less insidious arguments you could have if you didn't avoid, then at least ease the insolence of anti-cirilists. It's not good when the prime minister goes to the courts, like it's bad enough to run into already dissuaded workers anyway. Question, are you an unnamed source from the government who assessed the decision to hand over Perkovic with a coup against the water and can citizens hope in the second half of their mandate for state reactions and your focus on major problems?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64488	Answer to the question, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64489	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, you from the session to the session of this House are eager to be my public relations advisor. For this job, a number of people are modestly paid, foreign agencies are not engaged, I stress the government, parties can do whatever they want, respond to their members and audits, therefore I ask you and advise you not to engage in my public relations. In the end, voters will be tried, as will you. You've become a parliamentary representative, you think you represent a certain group of people, certain social interests, a certain worldview, but I find it very difficult to understand what a system of values you stand for, but roughly speaking, that's populism. Politics without a little pulsism is gone. Especially not in a democracy where everyone is even and formally, at least formally in rights. So you have to kind of get close to people. Is that the way or the way we do this and what I'm trying to do, and it's going to show the election. One election, those two years ago, showed that we had a cold, perhaps pre-rational, but with a clear approach to the election, we got a huge trust from people and the moment you had it, count on it that in a week, there might be no more. So, as far as knowledge and method go, we're not bad here. You just need to prove yourself. But I'm appealing, if you want to continue, but don't advise me on how to deal with the public because I don't answer to you, but you have a right to do that if you want. Not because I say so, but because you have the right by the nature of social relations. And as for your relationship with the unions and that Labour Act that you accused Minister Mrsic of being what? Representative or servant of the capitalist. Now let's make sense like this, why would that be? What are our motives for being like this? In addition to the motive for providing more jobs and for more people to work, such as in that Germany, where more people, on average, work for smaller wages, are doing less, but it is lower unemployment. It's the price of success sometimes. And I don't expect you to be reasonable, to be correct, objective, and to tell the citizens because what you're up for, unfortunately, is also part of the public union. Those in the private sector where real capitalism is only present do not practically exist, these people are cared for by no one, but then still union leaders are calling on them, unemployed people are calling for to join in protests against the Labour Act, which is precisely for these unemployed people to open the door to work, not labour markets, but for work, employment, such as such, regulated, not African employment, regulated employment. These are the reforms of the German Social Democrats, these are the reforms of HARC 1234, that is the 2010 Agenda, that is Germany, which many people here often like to quote and call. That's the facts. But I have no illusions that the facts will reach your consciousness or someone's conscience. I probably won't. I don't comment on unnamed sources. I have total distance. Everyone has the right and mockery, these days and mockery because it's the only means of defending themselves against the will of some people. I've never raised a finger in the courts, let alone a voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64490	Branko Vuksic, an indication of the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64491	You said that, Honorable Prime Minister, it was hard for you to understand what I was saying and what I stood for. First of all, you forget one fact that you are the prime minister of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the Prime Minister and those voters who voted for the Croatian Labourists. These grades aren't my grades, these grades were taken out of the press television shows, that's exactly what communication experts say. After all, we feel here in the Parliament today as you communicate with the MPs, which means this House to you. Style is human, man is style. You, of course, are responsible for your style and you will submit your bills to your voters. You said you cared for workers for those who were jobless, for those who might lose their jobs. Your concern is reflected in nearly 400 thousand unemployed. Your politics didn't bear fruit, and because we claim it, we're populists. What are your motives you asked about the anti-work law? Well, that's exactly what's protecting big capital is you're a neoliberal government, you've shown with many moves that you're a more neoliberal government than it was the HDZ government. Therefore, what you do is the way you perform, the way you run the country and how you communicate with the public and how it concerns all of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and me as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64492	22nd question Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64493	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my question is intended for the president of the Croatian government. Mr. Prime Minister Croatian public is familiar, and I hope you too are familiar with this year's celebration of Orthodox Badnjak in Vukovar and Borov Sel, thanks to Croatian public television, I think of HRT, we all had the opportunity to witness the giddy column, guarded by Croatian police. Most of them were young members of the Serb national minority dressed in Serbian flags, flags of the Dinar's Chetnik movement, shubara, spoons with three fingers raised. Prime Minister with this provocation, and not a celebration, the attack on the sovereignty and integrity of the Republic of Croatia was seen in an MP for the celebration of the Christmas of Orthodox believers in Croatia. I would like to remind you that the Penal Code provides for sanctioning those situations in Article 325 and 349. Since your reactions and the reactions of the highest officials and ministers have not even been reported by a high source from the government, I ask you to inform the Croatian public about the actions taken by the competent institutions, and in order to protect the equality of all citizens from the law, especially those who do not comply with the existence of the Croatian state, are calling for divisions and express a territorial claim that they did this in '89 and '90, in place of the threat. Tell us what the institutions of the Republic of Croatia have done against these phenomena?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64494	Answering the question, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64495	Well, most of the people of Vukovar, although you're talking here about Boro's Village which is the second municipality outside the city of Vukovar, most of the city of Vukovar has chosen in two election cycles one integration policy of co-existence or common life, and that is the fact that it chose this man in glasses, twice, every time with multiple votes. He could lose the election tomorrow if he crashes by force, if the budget goes down, all that's possible. You asked, so you want to discuss it, so I'll tell you what I think. If there are elements of the crime they should punish them and that is true for all Croatian citizens and I look at it with deep antipathies, I will not say that they do not like to share people on ours and on theirs, but there is a lot of brotherhood, brotherhood and sisterhood in customs and ways of understanding politics and international relations. So these people if what you're saying is true, and I don't know about it, but if it's true they deserve contempt for beginning, and then let the police and the State's Attorney do it if there's anything to do. That goes for everyone in this country. So the question is the intelligence of a community organization, the intelligence of a social where there's a limit to someone's behavior. As I have appealed to the State's Attorney's Office that in cases where property sales are done, the returnees are held to the current and not the former law, so they can appeal to people if they listen to me, they're probably not our voters that they don't act like that, that they don't cause the devil, but that's also true of the so-called. Ours. So the citizens of Vukovar and yet the largest unit of local self-government in that part of Croatia have twice chosen what our coalition has offered them. That victory wouldn't have been possible if it hadn't been for werewolves and werewolves, it's just mathematically not possible, it says a lot, I'm proud of it, and it doesn't have to last forever, but as long as there's hope.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64496	An indication of the answer, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64497	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, unfortunately, I can't be happy with your answer, I'd be more pleased if you'd told me that you've taken all the measures and actions together with the police minister to prevent such phenomena, because in the last two years, the burning of the Croatian flag that was experienced at the celebration of Christmas Eve, singing Chetnic songs, the excelling of Draža Mihajlovic and Popo Djujic, the public wearing of the cobbler and the jackals and the flag of the Chetnic dinar squads, is certainly not an integral part of what neither Christmas nor Christmas predicts. So I ask you a written answer to my question, which is against how many persons have taken action, whether only infringements are ongoing or are criminal in progress, how many persons and what nationality from which area were those who were dressed in Chetnik uniforms? Does the announcement of the rehabilitation of Chetnica in neighbouring Serbia and the non-sension and re-supply in Croatia clearly give support to such a phenomenon? These are questions I haven't heard the answer to, and that's why I'm asking for a written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64498	23rd question Ivan Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64499	Thank you. I would like to refer my question to Ranko, who will remain Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior. The Honorable Vice President only a few days ago, 22 years after the international recognition of the Republic of Croatia, together with the President of the State Property Management Office, presented a unique register of state property published on the Internet. The registry noted the great wealth of the Republic of Croatia, which is reflected in 348 thousand 840 properties owned by Croatian citizens. We note that we are estimated to be the third country in Europe by so-called. the wealth of state property. Unfortunately, at the same time, however, we note that this property has not been managed for almost 22 years, that it was not in a position to be in bad shape today. Therefore, I ask you, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, what are the real potentials of the Republic of Croatia's assets and what are the strategic guidelines for putting these assets into operation for the development of the economy, for the creation of new jobs? And what matters to our citizens is what deadlines.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64500	The answer to the question is Vice-President and Minister Ranko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64501	I would like to thank Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear fellow MP. First of all, I must say that it is true that Croatia was a synonym for a bad master in managing its own. This isn't just about the properties you mentioned. We have a lot of stakes in companies. It's all about something you couldn't manage because you didn't know what you really had. And that fact after many years has changed with the registration itself or the list that was made, that means everything that Croatia has at this time in state property is of great value. And the real question is that the list of course is not enough, it will change, will be updated regularly. But his goal is not to sell out the property right now but to put it in the best position possible. In this sense, the register, which is now public, transparent, aims at making available to everyone in addition to information on what Croatia has and it is written to get that other information that goes beyond that and that is exactly the answer to your question, which is what the governance strategy of state property is, although it has already been adopted and legal frameworks have been created in which to manage, all sublegal acts have been adopted in the way that it decides on this property, the aim is to make it as much use of it as possible. And that means that now there are other homes that follow, and that's who pays, who doesn't pay the rent, whether the space is that and that kind of value. All together with our intention is that the property of the Republic of Croatia, above all, means its citizens will be put into office and be returned, means through the revenues of the state budget, everything that Croatian citizens have at the moment. If we are third in Europe at the value of real estate and the question arises where the real value is and I believe that after this list, we will continue to manage this state property on the best possible basis to prove that the state can also be a good master. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64502	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, 24th question asks a colleague of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64503	Thank you, Madam Vice President, I ask the question to the Prime Minister, Mr Milanovic. We're recently familiar with the public with the reform package. In this reform package, among other things, here is the transformation of the state inspectorate, and we will now discuss in this session 20 laws that should enter into force on 1 January 2014. Also one of the reform moves is the united public procurement that exists, of course. One of the more important steps in this is to raise the threshold for jobs that will not require public procurement. It also states here that I absolutely welcome the first time the government document states that the government's 2009 decision to ban employment in the state administration is still in force, therefore in the broadest sense. Among other things, the reduction in budgetary investment and the substitution of funds from European funds, which is good and which, of course, would not have been possible if we had not completed the negotiations and had not become a member of the European Union. I ask Mr. Prime Minister, don't you think joining NATO and joining the European Union were important strategic goals of the Republic of Croatia? In the past 10 years, should we have done something about these goals? Namely, your close associate recently stated that the past 10 years nothing has been done in Croatia and that no government before yours has done anything but do anything. Although we have become a member of the NATO Alliance and of the European Union. I single out these two, in my opinion, strategic goals for the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64504	Answer to the question, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64505	Well esteemed colleagues, the question is, your question is rhetorical, as is the statement by the unnamed senior government official rhetorical. So, of course you didn't mean it literally, unnamed, unnamed, so you said high-ranking government officials, don't take these things too personally, though it's hard. We politicians have to be vain, judges shouldn't, they have to be as cold as Permafrost, but it was working, it just wasn't working enough and it wasn't working the right way and it wasn't working on time. And in time it means when the crisis hits and that was in 2008 at 2009. Those two years were unfortunately lost, there was neither courage nor courage. And later when the devil came for his own, then we walked into a little spiral of backwardness and stagnation that I now believe we're getting out of. Therefore, Croatia has achieved its formal goals as we set them for ourselves. But now unfortunately, it turns out to some in our politics and society that it was just one microcry, one cover-up, and now under the carpet they're pulling out all the negativity, evil, so if you want the impatience in society that we thought might sometimes be naive, that they're gone from Croatia, but obviously they're not. And those who thus want to build a policy by looking up to the parties in Western Europe, the extreme parties, let them try. So these parties have never achieved results that would guarantee state authority, neither in Croatia. But yes, we have entered the European Union and NATO, you have made your contribution in this business, it will remain remembered as well as your failures, as well as my contribution and our failures and our mistakes, and our goal is for Croatia to be immune to the things that are happening around it and to profit from them. Sometimes, unfortunately, we find ourselves alone in it, acting irresponsiblely toward our country, underestimating ourselves, and others look and laugh and benefit from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64506	The obvious, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64507	Yes, Mr. Prime Minister, I didn't actually get an answer. I asked if you personally felt that entering NATO and the European Union were strategic goals for the state because it was necessary to do something, so it was not just a formal job but rather a real job because otherwise we could not complete the negotiations and we would not be a member of the European Union today. I have not personally experienced this statement by Mrs. Opačić, of course, that we all know who this is about, as I did not personally experience the invitation of your then representative, today your Minister, Mr. Bauk, when he called me to make a brooch of 317000 unemployed, because if I were to take it personally, then perhaps now I would suggest to someone from your government to make a brooch that would say 375643 today. I mean, I mean, if you want support, which I absolutely understand, if you want to understand what you absolutely understand then, of course, it's good that someone else's work, what was possibly well done, no one in your government underestimates. That's not advice, that's my thinking, because I think at the end of the term you're going to learn something that I am, and that's very important in politics, something a little more humility is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64508	25th question, Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64509	Dear Madam Vice President. I refer my question to the Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Milanovic. After two years of your government's mandate and unfortunately the fact that you can't boast but not a single positive result of your work, we have recently heard that I would say the main thesis of your members that you are introducing order in the state and I would agree with you. You have introduced rows of increasingly large waiting lists in health institutions, increasing order in front of the Employment Service, popular cuisines, and now there are growing lines of young people who want to leave the Republic of Croatia because they do not see the perspective of their work and their future. In view of this, you have also put order in Parliament by forcing your majority that the government has a crucial influence in the work of this Parliament. And now there's another area you said I'd re-emerged with inappropriate pressure on the judiciary, you were engaged a few months ago in a sudden, unnecessary and harmful constitutional change, and on that path you were defeated, you didn't come up with constitutional changes, and they were the consequences of your personal attitude and disagreement with those who thought that Mr. Perkovic should be handed over to the German judiciary. My question is: what are your professional competences to call judicial officials for the quality of their work, to put political pressure on the judiciary, not only you but also members of your government, I will mention only Mrs Opacic...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64510	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64511	And Mr. Linic and do you finally give up this kind of practice in your politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64512	Answer, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64513	Here you see, Mr. Vuksic, you haven't asked the question, but when you have to answer these insinuations, and then you get the criticism that you treat your colleagues improperly because I'm the same parliamentary representative with the original mandate, then it's a very complicated situation. So here we heard all sorts of things from a colleague who was a minister of justice for two years and who is famous for not doing anything but defending the law of nothing that wasn't his job but the job of Minister Bošnjakovic who didn't want to do it. That's what I remember you from. I don't remember you from harm. I don't remember you from anything. But when we talk about the pressure on the judiciary, you obviously didn't listen or you didn't want to listen or you didn't understand what I was talking about here, or you didn't read the Croatian Constitution at all, so you concluded that even the most vicious and most aggressive justice politician can kiss his cheek and he can't do anything. So don't make it up, no pressure on the judiciary or on me or any of my colleagues, or we'll do it. In addition, the presidents of the largest Croatian courts spoke publicly of these days. Are you saying that we lined them up to say that? People do their job as they know, as they can, as they are educated and will be exposed to the court and to the criticism of the public, and that is, almost, nothing more, because no one can do anything to them anymore, and that Croatian people need to know. So the judiciary and the judges are completely independent and there's a lot of things on their conscience and responsibility, because if they're wrong, they won't answer to anyone and they don't answer to anyone. It's not my position and it's not that comfortable, but it's the price of democracy and it's not high, but it's the price of democracy. Therefore, a respected colleague, you can keep repeating things as much as you want, but I will still wait for you and I don't understand why you even asked this question. So in this House you're against establishing an investigative commission, it's not clear to anyone why. Why are you opposed to establishing an investigative committee that should establish traumatic facts in the highest representative body of the Republic of Croatia regarding the recent Croatian history. This will not be done by any court in either Croatia or Germany because it is not the case. So that's where you run like a black door. This is what the Croatian public needs to hear. I repeat, therefore, without any argument you refuse to participate in the work of the committee on the subject of which you have been working on political capital for a year. I don't know what to call it. So the way to the truth and to the knowledge of truth is long, tiring, annoying, sometimes frustrated. People don't see obvious things. The obvious thing is that for some reason you fear an investigative commission, not a court, from an investigative committee. And as for the amendments to the Constitution, so in this House it is according to what I know, and from the beginning I have followed this procedure to some extent, although later I must admit it has completely escaped from any control because it is normal. The parliament is a body that negotiates, talks, people suggest, deals, new proposals go. At one point there was an agreement that seems to me that Croatia is going into good constitutional changes. You gentlemen will explain why you are against introducing a provision in the Croatian Constitution that does not obsess over serious murders. Well, at the same time, we could solve all these problems that are getting to you right now, and for years you've been working with these people that I haven't seen in my life. You were their colleagues, friends, dependants. Why does it bother you to change the Croatian Constitution and to say that serious killings become obsolete? Well, at the same time, all those who have an unclean conscience know that obsolescence doesn't protect them. Why are you against it? Mr. Mlakar, I certainly won't get an answer to that question from you. Your party president didn't give it either. The Croatian public I think doesn't expect it at all, they've given up on it. But she's just doing our conscience why you're against it, what's bothering you. So how do you think we'd protect someone if we were looking for an end-of-the-date. So that moment all the bad guys are coming... Everyone, and you're against it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Explain that to your children at home.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64514	Time. The obvious answer to Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64515	Well, I'm sorry that you don't have Mr. Prime Minister for 20 minutes for these circulations, and then I'll tell you why I asked you. I asked you as president of the government that you represent, our state, and I didn't speak on a personal level like you did to me. And then I'll warn you that I asked you to show the amount of ignorance that you're dealing with. First of all, I've never been a minister of justice. It is purely factual you can check in all documents available to you. But that's the least important thing in this problem. The important thing is that even though I wasn't the Minister of Justice, I advocated that politics is not imposed on the judiciary and that you allow the judiciary to perform its constitutionally guaranteed function, and you don't. And instead of having all that has happened, the shame you have done to this country, the fact that you have been denied by both the judges of the County and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, and I don't know what else to say to you that your adventures in the judiciary are unnecessary, harmful not only to you but also to the entire state, you are allowing yourself to re-freedom in Parliament to call your representatives who have warned you of the harmfulness of your policy. That's what we can talk about. And if you already want to hear that the public of Croatia hears why the Croatian Democratic Community has advocated amendments to the Constitution, it has been argued that all the crimes committed during the communist regime, not that this is in any way divisive of your interventions in the Constitution, and that you are in the end today boasting that you have also proposed a referendum as an amendment to the Constitution which was not your proposal at all. That's what your first Deputy Prime Minister said...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64516	Thank you. Now you're not saying time's up. 26 questions, Vice President Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64517	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I refer my question to the Minister of Spatial Planning and Construction, Anki Mrak Taritas. A few days ago, we witnessed the presentation of an e-authority project that we expect a faster, simpler procedure for obtaining permits. It is my question, Minister, when this project will be brought back to life in the Republic of Croatia, meaning in the whole area, what the value of this project is and what benefits you expect from this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64518	Secretary Anka Dark Taritash's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64519	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the project e-authority was presented the other day. The e-authority and e-authority project works in the ministry's environment. It has been operational since 2 January, as since 1 January, a whole set of laws from our districts have come into force. It's a big project we've been implementing since February 1st in all of our 53 offices. What am I talking about? I'm talking about an e-authority project where there's a list of all employees working on permits, a list of all authorised designers from the field of architecture, construction, geodesy, a list of all public-legal bodies, a list of all spatial plans. Therefore, in one place all workers working in the Republic of Croatia on the issue of a building permit will be able to issue a permit from that list. As of February 1st, we start to implement our offices, we start with the County of Međimurje, and behind this, with all the offices to agree that they will be ready. And what exactly is the point? The point is that in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia in all our 53 offices and all our approximately 900 employees working on issuing construction permits are issued according to the same procedure, the same system, equally quickly, equally in the same way as building permits. So, that we do not have what we had practice so far that in one way the Vinkovci, in another way Zagreb, in the third way Split, regardless of what I happened to mention these three offices. So, by the same principle, the same procedures will clearly and loudly and unequivocally issue building permits in all our offices. The amount we paid for the platforms is a million and 400 thousand kuna. The ministry will also install platforms in all our offices and will continue to maintain, educate and all financial resources related to it will be borne by us. It's a program that's the sole property of the ministry that we've developed, and what we've used, we've used the information forces of each other's companies. Therefore, since the end of March, to resume and respond precisely to what you have set up, since the end of March we expect all offices in the Republic and all of our approximately 900 employees to issue a building permit, issue an e-authority in the same way as the same principle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64520	Thank you. 27th question, Zeljko Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64521	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I refer my question to Minister Rajko Ostojić. Dear Ministers, we all know the state of health system that spends about 18% of the state budget annually. You have reduced your health contribution to the economy from 15% to 13% with the intention to create new jobs, but unfortunately, employers have not quite understood your message. The former government, with effect from 1 January 2009, introduced the payment of an additional health contribution of 3% to pensions higher than the average net salary that the group now pays from 34 000 pensioners for the sixth year. You yourself mentioned in the announcement of your moves at the beginning of the term of office the abolition of this contribution for pensioners where you said it was not fair because they paid high contributions throughout the working life. The demands of pensioners' associations as well as HSU on the assessment of the consent of the law with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia are still awaiting a decision of the Constitutional Court in which, despite the 4 haste, there is no answer. Dear Ministers, my question is when are you planning to abolish this unfair extra contribution and thus prevent the double taxation of this group of pensioners who are still paying additional insurance policies? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64522	Answer, Minister Rajko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64523	Thank you very much for asking, sir. So, you said exactly on January 1st 2009, the Minister of Health then, and today's parliamentary representative Mr. Milinovic introduced that contribution, so 3% for all pensioners, an additional health contribution and it has been gathering over the years. ... Over five thousand kunas of average salary, then there were five thousand and 300 kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So what is crucial is that it was still on the tail of the conukture, and the recession entered the United States in 2008 and then on 1 January 2009, both in Europe and the EU. So, in the conukture phase, a new tax was imposed and it's definitely exactly what you said. On that trail, we promised to cut the health contribution to cut the labour price from 15 to 13 index points, and as you know, we're halfway there now. You've seen our results, across a whole series of systems, including the health system, we've made significant shifts, we've achieved 60 to 80, somewhere up to 90% of the targets. You have also seen estimates of GDP growth for this year from all relevant institutions. Therefore, I am convinced that by the end of the term of office, we will reduce that contribution, or neutralise it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64524	An indication of the answer? It's a turtle, Shemper.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64525	I thank you, Mr. Minister, and I hope that what you have now stated will come true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64526	28th question, Zoran Vasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64527	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, the Honorable Prime Minister with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Tihomir Jakovina. Dear Ministers, a few days ago you announced that in the next 10 to 15 days our farmers will receive the first part of the promotion for the production year 2013. This is good news that will please about 100,000 farmers for the reason that they will receive the money before the start of the spring seed, so that they can prepare themselves for a quality crop. However, the news is good and for this reason that out of the total of about a billion kunas you said would receive around 700 million kunas are EU budget funds. We can thus say that in this way our farmers will be the first group of farmers in the Republic of Croatia to use EU funds to a greater extent. However, our farmers expect much more funding from the EU budget as a result of the negotiations. About 2.5 billion kuna a year. These are the funds from the second pillar, i.e. from rural development and the prerequisite for farmers to withdraw funds from that second pillar is the adoption of the Rural Development Programme. These days, the media were full of headlines that we lost that money, that Brussels refused us and that our farmers could not benefit, that they would not use those funds. You've denied all these allegations, you said it was misinformation, so please tell me now clearly that you're saying if we lost that money, which is the procedure for adopting the Rural Development Program and ultimately when we can expect a tendering process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64528	Minister Tihomir Jakovina's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64529	Thank you, Vice President. A respected colleague on the Rural Development Programme as the most important strategic document of Croatian agriculture could speak for more than 4 minutes, but I will therefore try to be clear and very short. We have not lost, we have not been able to lose, and we will not lose 332m euros a year as far as we can under the Rural Development Programme. What we've lost, give me 10 seconds, we've lost significant funds on pre-accession funds and SAPARD and IPARD where we should actually prepare and practice to design projects, applications, implement and withdraw funds. 2006-2009 SAPARD use of only 40%, 15 million euros failed, 2010, 2011 on IPARD where the more significant funds were already being used below 50%, we lost 50 million euros in 2012 we raised the use to 51%, we lost 12 million euros, in 2013 the use was raised to 78%, we lost 5 million euros. 2014, 2015 and 2016. em plus three last years we will use 100% of the resources available to us. But to go back to the rural development programme, that not only the last few days, the last few weeks have been very incorrect signs and attacks on the Ministry of Agriculture and on the unprepared and not the finality of the rural development programme, we could not finish it even though we have been working on it for months because the entire reform package of the common agricultural policy that has been working on for three years is behind schedule. Last year, at the Council of Ministers, we adopted a reform package that has, among other things, a Rural Development Regulation and a Regulation on the 2014 transitional year, and only then have conditions been created that we can actually send our programme to the Commission, both we and the other 27 EU countries. The program has been working for months, in the widest possible way all project participants are involved, we have made about 160, 170 presentations across Croatia for all those whose programme is concerned and can say that we have a really great strategic document that is finished. Yesterday we also conducted it through the procedure of the government itself and this week as the first Republic of Croatia first sends the Rural Development Programme towards the European Commission and begins the procedure in fact that will take a minimum of 6 months on the Commission itself. So all general administrations must show themselves on our proposal program, make their comments, we will probably adopt part of the commentary, we will argue against and then go official confirmation from the European Commission and call for tenders and use of the funds themselves, N plus three, means zero years of waiting and accepting the project itself, three years for realisation, but this year we expect that of the 16 measures we have chosen, which we are most certain will contribute to and raise competitiveness and the development of agriculture and food industry as well as local self-government that will be able to use in one piece of the means. Part of the competition is already going this year, in the middle of the year we expect the launch of the first competitions and we are sure that in the most qualitative way these funds will be used. These inaccuracies in the reporting itself which were unfortunately in the media work, partly and politically motivated are false, lies because the programme de facto we couldn't until the adoption of the regulation itself or send it to the European Commission, it worked for months, we have a really good document on which we will improve the situation in our agriculture, and we are all as a system and we have agreed with the mayors as well as with local self-government an action plan to present this programme to end-users. The program can be great, but if we don't have enough of the prepared consumption programs, those that will report with their projects, then the result will be weaker. I'm sure we'll do all the activities to make the withdrawal rate available to us as high as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64530	Thank you. It's obvious. 21st question Melita Mulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64531	I'd like to thank the esteemed vice president. I refer my question to the Minister of Justice, Mr Orsat Milenić. Dear Ministers, today the Croatian judiciary is even more mentioned than the economic crisis and recession. Therefore, I ask you to explain and respond to me in the context of the announced or just presented reform of the judicial system, what implications will those implications have for Croatian citizens? In fact, we often use a krill that justice may be slow but that it is reaching. In the Republic of Croatia, the average civil litigation dispute lasts 470 days and about 2,000 days or five and a half years. Whether this reorganisation will mean Croatia's construction that justice will be faster, cheaper and more accessible.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64532	Minister Orsat Milenic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64533	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, therefore, that the average duration of 462 days is slow in the first degree alone, so there comes another step, and you will see that the figures are unfortunately much worse and that is the average. He's been around for over 2,000 days. He's a lot faster somewhere. These data are therefore SEPEZ data relating to all the countries of the Council of Europe where the average is around 260 days. So what I'd be very happy about, and that's our goal, which is to come to that average, is not to be among the worst as we are now, but to at least be on average. It's ideal to be among the best, but it'll come in phase two. What will change for the citizens will change for the worse, because despite the stories that appear, citizens will not travel, their costs will not be increased. So for the citizens that these conditionally speaking possible negative effects won't get anything except for those citizens who are intimately bound to write on their plate that they also have that court seat and not a permanent service or those citizens who are intimately bound perhaps to their President of the Court. So that's not going to change. But it's going to change for the better, and it's going to change in the sense that we're going to go towards speeding up the process because one of the basic disadvantages that we now have in our network which is now I would say feudal because we have very many small units. At this point, we have over 72% of our judicial authorities have fewer than ten judges or state attorneys, often two or three. I'm not saying that there is bad work, many of them are doing good, even great, but the situation is such that they simply don't have enough work to achieve some Croatian decision-making average, so this is not a reform where people are said to be not doing well, it simply balances the tides through it so that everyone starts to work or do more or less equally for the same pay. Today there are oscillations of burden on these three segments we are dealing with and perhaps it is not good to talk about reform, let's talk about reorganisation. Otherwise, when we have the word reform in Croatia, the strategy, the action plan does not end well as usual. So, reorganization we're somewhere from deviation one to five. So for the same salary, someone works one, someone five. So, proportionally. So that's what we want to equalize. For every judicial area, we've determined exactly what the average is that we're going towards. As a rule, citizens will not travel, they will travel to judges, if anyone should travel, not citizens to court. The network as it is now reduced to the number of management staff, is reduced to the secondary services that are concentrated and, most importantly, allows mobility so that we get to these averages that I'm talking about, and we expect to get to this average that I said over the next two to three years. So, up to 200 and a few days for first degree. Also, the reform applies to the second stage where we will have faster results so that we together will significantly speed up procedures. What is often said, what is the savings? We plan to do this under the means we have, but the savings, our rough bill is that citizens lose on interest due to the length of the procedure that shouldn't be so long, over billions of kuna a year. So that's the savings that those citizens who are facing the court will get, who will only pay less interest because they will get a solution a year faster, not to mention how much savings there is in solving conflicts that are among people, what is the savings in the processing of criminal acts, etc. So that's how they set it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64534	Thank you very much. 30th question Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64535	Thank you very much. I will ask my question to the Croatian Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Milanovic. Mr. President, from the moment you triumphantly cried out "We cannot let you down" two years ago. Unfortunately, it is two years of depression and disappointment for Croatian citizens with the policy you are leading. For two years, you've assured us that we'll be better, and we're worse. In those two years, you spent 240 billion kunas from the state budget, 10 billion in public enterprises, and we haven't solved any major problems. We've been living the most expensive life span of the past 20 years. You've raised your taxes, and your income is getting less and less in the state budget. We ended up in credit waste, never more public debt. You're putting us in charge of phone sessions by covering the failures of the policy you're conducting. In those two years, you increased the number of unemployed by 60,000, leaving them as you said without self-respect and without bread. In two years, the policy you are leading has increased the number of blocked citizens by 90,000 and their debt by 10 billion. These are Mr. President's individuals and families who are working at all or difficult. In those two years, we've recorded the crashes. It's falling in GDP with incredible perseverance, incredible perseverance falling in GDP. You fell off the transporter, too, remember? After two years, I must conclude. Our people are divided into similar and dissimilar, red and black, our past takes away our future, our young are leaving with our belly after bread. Mr. Kregar, a member of your club recently painted a policy you're running in a sentence, "I don't believe I know the goal or understand the direction of this government." I ask you, Mr. President, do you consider yourself after two years of leading this government, a successful prime minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64536	Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64537	If I answer yes, you'll say I'm unprepared. But a respected colleague, I didn't fall, but I jumped, but you probably don't know that verb, so as far as the crashes are concerned, I jumped. But I'm saying, look at it, this verb also exists in Croatian, you probably never met him. But let us put aside this great story. So, you can moan as much as you want, we'll send you, here's who the hell mentioned your fellow reformer in 2010, so what was done in Germany 10 years ago, so if you're in a good mood, you'll round up what you can and can't do on the menu. So, in these two years, I hope you don't leave anything empty, you'll order something. So, what social measures can go on, all of what the most successful European countries did 10 years ago, I think we couldn't because HDZ was in power. Now we've come, we've done something, we're not satisfied with the speed and reach, but you'll certainly help us with the menus of standard, so reforms and changes that successful states are carrying out, you say what they can and can't do. I just hope you don't leave it all empty. We can count on you, right? And in the meantime, continue to serve people like this, I think, so if I could be your PR advisor for a moment, this is killing people into a clue. It's not that bad, but it's not satisfactory. People don't go out with their stomachs after their bread, they go after their heads with bread. Some of them go with the belly after the bread, but the hungry are gone. So people are looking for a better chance for themselves and it's pouring out our talent. So, the one in which you created, I suppose, as a teacher, participated, if I remember correctly. People leave, go for a better chance, doctors leave, nurses leave, physicists leave, mathematicians, and I consider it the biggest loss of Croatia, as you do. But it's not a bread belly, it's a chance head, it's another time where we have to compete with the best. Unfortunately, your rhetoric, your actions, your ideas don't contribute. And we here in this House can by who knows which times to give what little trust and hope that human understanding will distinguish the truth from the lie, the noise from the systematic work and the approach and that they will recognize who behaves and who you are, what you are and what we are. I can repeat a hundred times the same, I can tell the truth, but it's not easy to convince people that we're telling the truth. And in that noise you're skating, it's your hummus. That positive hummus you're growing from. And that's a fact. And I can't solve it, nor am I trying to solve it by force, by noise, but by patient, systematic work. But that's not a guarantee of success either, because simply as we're not German Social Democrats, you're 100 times smaller German democracies.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64538	An indication of the answer, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64539	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I'm not happy with your answer because this question wasn't difficult at all. A successful prime minister would count for hours of his success, unfortunately we haven't heard anything from your successes. It is even sadder that after two years you cannot determine your own responsibility as well as the responsibility of the ministers you lead, it is saddened because we as a people deserve to be happy and satisfied as individuals, we deserve to live in this beautiful state happily and successfully. Unfortunately, we live in despair in depression. We've become a state that can't do anything. We hear today a man with a hip problem needs to wait a year and a half to walk normally, the simplest problems can't be solved simply, and they're always responsible for others. So I suggest that, along with that established welcome office, you and the Ministry of Foreign Responsibility, let it determine who has been guilty of the failures of this government since the 1990s, of course not to be found within the SDP or these other parties that make up your coalition any culprits. Well, we're into moral debauchery. Look at this story about these UDBA members and their fates. Well, we're gonna get out of this and shake off for years and as a society and as a country as a whole. If I were you, I wouldn't be pressuring the people with such failures, and therefore give the people a chance to find a better and better way to live a happier and better life in this country because this people deserve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64540	31st question colleague Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64541	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers and Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I ask the question to the first Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, Mrs Vesni Pusic. Dear Madam Ministers, you were at the EU Council in Brussels yesterday to decide on the start of negotiations for the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU. It is another country of 6 countries that is in our close neighborhood that has started negotiations, and this is an opportunity of course for the EU to regulate the country administratively and democratically, but also an opportunity to address their open-ended high political issues, the status, constitutional issues of the problems that the countries have among themselves in their arrangement. Whether the EU will also be able to address this second issue is, of course, open. But the Republic of Croatia can certainly find an opportunity to affirm itself as a country that will constructively, creatively and as a country that knows what it wants to participate in these processes not only of the accession negotiations of the Republic of Serbia but also of the accession processes of the other countries and realizes its interests to have a stable, prosperous neighbourhood and secure lasting peace in these areas, it is our highest interest. My question to you, Madam Minister, is what does the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs do and plans to do in the process of negotiations with the Republic of Serbia and other pre-accession processes of other countries in order to achieve these highest goals of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64542	Vice-President and Minister Vesna Pusic reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64543	Madam Vice President of the Parliament. Mr. Representative, thank you for asking. So it is true that yesterday at the Intergovernmental Conference, negotiations were open with the Republic of Serbia on EU membership. This is one step forward in the regional and success of the regional policy of the Republic of Croatia in this case as EU member states. So an integral part of our and one of the objectives of our regional policy is to contribute to the stability of the South East European region, and as we know from our own experience, all reforms and changes that form part of the negotiations on membership and achievement of EU membership are largely meant not only to build the institutions of the state, to stabilise the institutions of the state, but also to introduce standard and the same criteria that all Member States must behave on. From that point of view, it is our direct interest that all the countries of Southeast Europe therefore all the countries of our neighbourhood go through this reform process and stabilise on the same basis as the Republic of Croatia and respect the same standards as the EU Member States' standards. As far as the Republic of Serbia is concerned, it is negotiating somewhat different criteria or something different from ours. As is the custom, therefore, every next country that negotiates has some additional, specific elements in its negotiations, so Serbia as its first three key chapters with which justice begins and has justice, freedom and security, which includes relations with neighbours and has so far not been particularly important, was an integral part of what was called other issues, in these negotiations, the relationship between Serbia and Kosovo was included in this chapter, and the resolution and status of Kosovo in the EU and in the region as a state. You know that at this time Kosovo is not recognised by all EU member states. So the end of the negotiations must take place, as stated by binding official positions regarding Kosovo. At the beginning of these negotiations, therefore, intergovernmental conferences are formally attended by ministers but are generally attended by mission leaders. However, several ministers, Greek, Greek and Greek ministers, Austrian and Romanian ministers for Europe, Germany's French, Hungarian State Secretary and I as Croatian Foreign and European Minister, participated at this intergovernmental conference yesterday. Considering that this is one process in which everyone will have influence but of course Croatia will also have a special engagement and special focus on the process with knowledge and interest There we were already very active and when it came to [[Thank you very much. Thank you.]] Let me just finish my sentence when it comes to meeting the conditions regarding our exit from CEFTA and entry into the EFTA. [[Thank you. Time's up.]] And in this engagement we have ensured the interest, to respect the interests and comply with the European rules of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64544	Thank you very much. It's an indication of the answer. Thank you. 32nd question Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64545	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'm giving the question to the prime minister. Assistant Finance Minister Branko Shegon's case is at the centre of the Croatian public's attention, with the Perkovic case probably the case that people are most interested in. So far, Mr. Prime Minister, you have not stated yourself, and we do not know what your position is on this matter, perhaps you are not informed as to Mr. Djakic's question, so I will brief you on what is going on with the assistant minister and the key man for Mr. Shegon's preliminary settlements. He received, or a company owned by him, a HBOR loan. A statement by the HBOR administration shows that this credit is not fully in line with the conditions of the programme for which it should be approved. Furthermore, during these last few days, it has been revealed that Mr. Shegon has also guaranteed personal property for the loan, so he has been deeply involved in all the activities concerning the loan and he knew that he was doing something that was not in line with the regulations. Today we see that it does not pay interest that 160 thousand kuna is owed to HBOR. But it's not the only sin of Mr. Shegon, we've seen that companies have been linked to, in his possession, received over a million kuna loans to support small value tourism. That is 8% of the total amount, total approved for that programme. So I think his share in total Croatian tourism and in small projects is certainly not 8%. Furthermore, he did not pay and did not pay tourist fees for 2013, the state owed more than 90,000 kuna, it is Assistant Minister Linic, just to distract you. And most important of all, the institutions of the state did not react even though the application against him was due to some other things or because of those things had been filed long ago, so the tax administration did not act according to what the MUP asked her to do. So my question is, how do you link the introduction of the order you stand for on practically a daily basis to the Shegon case? [[Intruder: Ask a question.]] Why are you not doing anything and is it because you agree with these methods or because you are afraid of Minister Linic?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64546	You remind me that time has passed, and at the same time you speak to each other over the appointed time. Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, answer the question. [[Well, just half a minute.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64547	It's one of 100 or more ministerial assistants at the finance ministry, though, you said the minister's authority would wait for the Commission's find to prevent conflicts of interest. This is about one relationship with this loan you're talking about, which is a gray zone, and that's where we have to set the rules that are hard to set by law. So what is the level of connection between a person, a natural person and an official with a legal person and when something becomes a conflict of interest. After I found out about this, I sent and gave a clear message that, in future, I expect all those who act on such duties to get away from it completely, which is the limit, whether it's a brother, a sister, whether it's a private firm that I transferred to a law firm, so it's run by my son. That's what we're going to have to agree on and talk about, it's a law that doesn't regulate it. So this is all expensive to me, let's just say it's the ultimate limit of tolerance. And I said that the future of all those who act on such duties in government to get away from it or to do private business. It seems formally that everything here is fine, that such loans are granted and otherwise, but I'm allowing a different interpretation, we'll see. So that's about this one. Otherwise, the facility is the best hotel in Korcula opened by a colleague sitting next to you, then the finance minister and along with the mayor of Dubrovnik. That's what I'm talking about. ... Who am I talking to here? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So it's no big deal if you've been so polite to get into a word like a coffee shop, it's no big deal. That's what this is all about, so good work. I obviously know this man a lot weaker than you do, so I'm gonna stick around for this. We'll see. So obviously this is about some other relationship. As for the secret police in Yugoslavia and its members who continued to work for the Croatian state and... What do I do? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64548	Col. Jandroković, please listen to the answer and you will show yourself to the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64549	You mentioned the last name of one, would you please compensate me for this, because no one was in the word, he was talking half a minute longer and I've lost almost a minute. But I want to talk about it clearly. So you will have to explain to the Croatian public at some point why you are against the commission that needs to determine the truth. Why are you against the amendments to the Constitution that are just? Whether you're going to call it communist crimes, which is legally completely illiterate and inconclusive or severe murder, that's a side issue. But I don't think we can bring curses into the Constitution, so the next thing you know, we're gonna bring in some kind of juicy curse. So the Constitution must hold a certain level of dementia. But we can agree differently, but you don't want a deal, you don't want to participate in that conversation and you set impossible, ground conditions and just keep going. But what I have to say here once again, let each one of you conclude, you said that the public is very interested in this case of this gentleman I've never seen in my life, unlike some of you who were with him finger and finger and now for some reason you want revenge. I don't, I still want to stay in Croatia, get out, judge him. I'd like it to be in Croatia if possible, but run away from it as devils. Why are you doing this, it'll come out very soon. And I offer you again, take over the head of the committee, raise your suspicions that some of you were tin soldiers who are now in custody, that some of you were campaign heads of people who were in full law telling jokes about the late President Tudjman. So it's all your history that haunts you like a dark shadow. I don't have that history, my colleagues don't have that history, HNS and IDS. Fortunately for us, this world is completely unknown. So the longer you insist on it, the more the marble thunder will rise over you, and now answer whatever you want as you ask. I'll take it no matter what you interrupt me here, stat. You took almost 40 seconds from me, and that's on your conscience. And otherwise, as far as your presence at the opening of that hotel is concerned, there's no problem, it wasn't me, it was you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64550	An indication of the answer, Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64551	Thank you very much. Well, it's a fascinating ease to ignore your own failures, mistakes, your own sins. Mr. Prime Minister, I asked you about Mr. Shegon, I listed a few things that point to a clear conflict of interest, a possible abuse of political position. You pushed it out, as you ignored the opinion of the Supreme Court or the Supreme Court's verdict in the case of the murder of Djurekovic and the extradition of Perkovic. So now you're ignoring a case that's completely clear and we really can't find arguments and an explanation why you're protecting Mr. Brank Shegon, and after this answer it's perfectly clear that you're protecting him. And you know what I'm about to tell you, I thought your incompetence was the biggest thing you have but it's not. Your incompetence is the only thing thicker than your skin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64552	However, we should take little care of Parliament's speech. 33rd question, Sonja König. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64553	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of our Parliament. Dear Minister of Culture. Osijek's HNK is an extremely important institution, an important theatre for the city, for the county, as well as for the whole of Croatia, but it has been for more than a month because of the inability of the founder's agreement without indents and thus in financing problems. Dear Ministers, which are possible solutions to this situation, i.e. what are the opportunities of the Ministry of Culture to resolve this situation as soon as possible, or to find a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64554	Minister Andrea Zlatar Violić, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64555	Dear Madam Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished MPs, colleagues and colleagues. I would like for those who are not so familiar with the situation in Osijek, HNK, who do not read regularly Slavonia voice or do not come from Osijek-Baranja or some nearby county, to warn of its specificity and of course answer your question. It is the only national theatre in Croatia that has two co-founders in the 50% share, so 50% county-50% of the city, unlike Zagreb where 51% of the state, 49th city and where there was a legal possibility that, based on that percentage, we would introduce the changes to the last and the addition that, in the event of a non-contract, the Government, by the basis of the proposal of the Minister, appoints an intensifier or a V.D. There are no legal options at this time. At the moment of the beginning of the 12th month, we are in intensive contact with both the county and the city. In a series of letters, and then with an oral agreement that was reached yesterday, two things we tried to do but they weren't possible. We tried to go first in the 12th month with a government regulation that would have the power of the law, however, we did not meet these conditions since it was not a difficult economic situation. Then we tried to find a solution based on the Law on Institutions, but neither the Law on Institutions unfortunately provides any solution to the situation if there is no agreement on V.D., as neither can the institutions, it was one of the proposals in the discussions, to apply any recovery procedure. For this reason, we decided, therefore in agreements with both the county and the town that was in Zagreb yesterday, and on Friday I will visit them in Osijek, we agreed to go with a re-amendment of the law because we can't do any different, regular way. First by referring to the Government and then here to the Croatian Parliament to resolve this situation because it is really not about the financial problem right now. Both the county and the city are willing to continue to finance, although they have provided funds, the county and the city have signed an entire year's contract for the whole of 2014, that they will fully cover the costs, but by obtaining the indetermination of the current laws, both the Law on Theatre and the Law on Institutions, no one is authorized to sign so that these funds can be paid. On the one hand, we really tried, but we can't break the law. So, the union's proposal was that the ministry would pay the salary or that the minister, the minister of arbitration, would pay the whole story. We stick to the law, we go in line, and I believe that by the next payment of February 15th, we will have a little change that solves this situation which on the one hand makes people who work at the theatre insecure, and citizens with rights dissatisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64556	34 questions Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64557	A question for the Minister of Health. How many departments of service, activities in existing hospitals and how many hospitals are planned to close after the publication or acceptance of the Masterplan. And is the exact information that comes from banking circles to plan and privatise health insurance. So, the 19 billion-dollar cake it includes at this point is speculated that health insurance could apply that model, such as the pension second pillar, so that a 13% contribution would be halved by half public, half private insurance. Public health is one of the greatest achievements of modern, social states and because of the economic crisis but also liberal ideology it is under constant attack in Croatia and in some other countries that have it or which could not resist the pressure of an ideological, marketing campaign that is often disguised as scientific research and evidence. And it always ends with four rules: less rights, more inaccessible rights, the further away from patients and the longer they need to wait, and the goal is for health to become goods and disease to be a source of profit. You ministers used a new marketing trick with a majplan on the Croatian main plan that gives great announcements, and in fact hides not rationalization but closes part of the hospital system. And secondly, outsorcing in Croatia would say moving part of the business from public to private, then returning from private to public. Trying to save the hospital system with 3 billion failed because you haven't changed the model of hospital financing but you only tried to resuscitate the current situation. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Ask a question please.]] So, the future of public health as the greatest achievement in me in social Croatia, which is according to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64558	Thank you very much. Minister Rajko Ostojic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64559	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64560	A microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64561	There is no doubt, Mr. Lesar, that the future of public health is very, very good. You know for a fact that as soon as two years ago we came to Xavier, we made a very clear promise, which is that we lifted the private monopoly. So there's one bad thing, and it's called state monopoly. The only mountain is a private monopoly. Of course, no one is against private and private individuals in the health system as an excellent synergy of competence and competition with raising the quality of public health but we are strong opponents of the private monopoly and we have shown this very clearly. Public health is also reflected in what Andrija Printar taught us, which is prevention. Here you can see for yourself, the former Minister of Health is a gynecologist by his profession. Mimosis Day was four days ago. Also today, a woman in Croatia will discover a diagnosis of uterine cancer and each third day one will die, but has not introduced a screening programme for uterine cancer. That's what we did exactly two days ago, two years ago. So public health, prevention and education are clearly three basic pillars. As far as health insurance is concerned, it is based on solidarity, the solidarity of young people with the elderly. Unfortunately, the solidarity of those richer to the poor has not yet been made, and it may have been partly evident in the initiative of the finance minister and by introducing real estate taxes. And of course the third is the solidarity of the healthy with the sick. Therefore, public health remains definitely in Croatian hands. Masterplan no one had it right, Mr. Lesar, no one had the courage to make it in 20 years. That's what's waiting for us. Whether we could do it through the AGENDA 2010 or 2015 we're open. There's gonna be a public debate. I have already received the leadership of the Croatian Medical Chamber and the leadership of the Croatian Medical Assembly and introduced them to the indications of the main plan or masterplan. Unfortunately, the Croatian Doctor's Union has never shown up or obviously interested them, they are interested in everything else that goes to the heart, unfortunately in the health of our citizens, and out-sorcing or in Croatian not moving but in dispensing unhealthy services. So, no health care in this case. So separation goes to the level of the entire government. You'll see for yourself. I think there's already been a survey published on the Ministry of Administration's website. So it's going to be a plan, clear and very, very, very clear goal. Thank you very much, Mr. Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64562	The obvious answer to Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64563	Dear Mr. Minister, as far as I'm concerned, it's not about courage, it's about political commitment and intelligence and nothing else. Because if you're still accepting that reducing your health insurance contribution to 13% was a good move, then you have to answer the question why, just a few months later, you had to take 3 billion out of other funds to get rid of what was known to be in trouble at the time. I'm telling you now, and since when we talked about it when you were in the Parliament and the prime minister wasn't the two concrete proposals that we gave you, the second most important emergency change the model of the hospital's budgets, the monthly and the annual ones because he caused these losses and only part of the hospital's system generated these huge losses. If they weren't the county's guilty evidence is that you own KBC where you have the same problems. So the mayors and the county and their boards failed. But it's interesting next. You are quietly implementing what Gabriel's forumarians publicly advocate. I didn't expect that from you because you simply accepted the fact, so no one is against the private initiative in health care. I was talking about the health system and insurance, and you didn't say anything about it in response, so I'm asking the written answer about the intention is it true that you and these governments intend to privatise and health insurance? And outsourcing, first of all, to be able to hire something, and you have in the system and you have to isolate it and then hire it, so I said moving some of the jobs because you're going to kick them out of the system first and then put them back into the system through private channels. Moving and using.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64564	Thank you. The 35th question is asked by Ivan Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64565	There are various topics set up, but I'm going to talk about one topic that's not very much in this House of Commons, actually.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64566	You're asking the Prime Minister, aren't you?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64567	I ask the question to Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. That's what I've been through the media, and it's a matter of revising the contract between Croatia and the Vatican. Namely, all four contracts signed by Croatia stand as one normative if the situation in one of the co-signatures is significantly changed, the contract will be revised. I am calling for this and I believe that the situation has changed on one side in Croatia and it has made it very much worse, but it is not without hope, but it has changed in the Vatican by the arrival of Pope Francis who seems to be very socially sensitive. I advocate that no group, regardless of the omen, can use social goods without having to answer for it and not file accounts. Contracts as long as they are due to be respected and so is the religious teaching in schools, but I think it would show good will and to approach both sides of the agreement and to begin to discuss what should be changed in those contracts. So I ask Mr. Prime Minister to give his opinion on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64568	The prime minister, Zoran Milanovic, answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64569	Thank you, Mr. Representative. We have said that we will not change these contracts regardless of what is always worth rebus sic stantibus or how things stand, so contracts can be changed and no eternal contracts and each government has a sovereign right and also a duty to its citizens to review all international contracts except, of course, those on the limit of reduced contracts and to look at them in the light of national interests. That goes for that contract and those contracts as for almost everyone else. And that's my position. So no one can deny Croatian government that right nor can I, as Prime Minister, ever think of it. So, at a time when it is estimated that something is not in the Croatian interest, and if there is a majority and political will, all the subject matter of review is when it comes to the sovereign will of a state. Of course, there are real political constraints. And for me at this point, one of them is that we said we didn't see any deeper reason for it at this point, or in any recent future. Of course, that is where you appeal to the other side's conscience. Whoever represented that other side. And it is sometimes very often or impossible to establish because it is polyphony, to treat Croatian institutions correctly. Nothing more, just that. Unfortunately, it's not like that, but we can live with that. I hope my answer pleases you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64570	An indication of the answer, Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64571	I think the time has come for change because Croatia has over 370,000 unemployed, and it stands out for other associations and for the Church a great deal of money that would be useful for the Minister of Finance to patch holes in many sectors. So I'd like a written answer because we're obviously not going to stop at this one.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64572	36th question, Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64573	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I refer my question to Mr Miranda Mrsic, Minister of Labour and Pension System. So at the beginning of this month, the media was full of signs of the abolition of the State Inspectorate as well as the redistribution of state inspectors into 5 ministries. In this regard, various arguments were used to prove the inexcusability of the decision, however, all failed to mention that the State Inspectorate had failed to cooperate with the State Audit Office within 15 years, which would be necessary in the nature of the job. Therefore, Mr. Minister, I ask you, under number 1, why has the State Inspectorate been shut down, with the integration of former state inspectors into the new labour or inspection service of the ministry, as well as whether former state inspectors and current ministry officials and inspection services are doing their job? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64574	Answer the question, Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64575	Thank you very much. So when we talk about the State Inspectorate, the State Inspectorate was founded with the aim of uniting all inspection services in the Republic of Croatia and unfortunately this integration process has failed at this point. So before he stopped working, the State Inspectorate over 40 inspection services were outside the State Inspectorate and it was therefore clear that this integration process had not been completed and had not been successful and it was necessary to step forward to organise the inspection work itself in a different way. When we talk about the Labour Inspectorate and the Labour Protection Inspectorate, it was at least necessary to integrate into the State Inspectorate because it is one specific service that has entirely other characteristics of a repressive apparatus such as the State Inspectorate. Just to note that, therefore, out of 28 EU countries, Poland alone has a labour and labour protection inspection integrated into a special institution outside the labour ministry or the labour ministry. All other countries and countries we like to boast about, such as Germany, Austria and France and the Netherlands, in all these countries, the labour inspectorate is within the Ministry of Labour itself. Therefore, all those things that have been happening lately and all regrettable about the labour inspectorate and the state inspectorate itself have been purely political because we should have looked at the effectiveness of the state inspectorate and how I think that the state inspectorate in the future needs to accomplish the task that is most important to us. What we are proposing in the Government is a better organisation of the inspection services themselves, a more effective relationship between the one that regulates the laws and the one that controls the laws and, on the other hand, when we talk about the labour inspectorate, this inspectorate will play a very important role in what we are going to do this year and this year we are thinking of declaring the year of fight against work on black and, within that, the state inspectorate itself is one of the key elements that will lead to Croatia's work in a legal way and that we do not have work on black. This is also the case with the European Commission agents, and we have already made significant steps with colleagues from the European Union, as well as with colleagues from the countries surrounding us. Inspectors of work in the new law that will be before you very soon, I hope next week or as soon as possible, we define in a different way the work inspector's work. They're starting to have much more power. So far, for example, when it was necessary to prove irregularities in working time, the inspectorate could only rely on the statement of the employee and indicate that it was the employee who didn't dare say, is, I've been doing it longer, it wasn't recorded anywhere. According to the new proposal, labour inspectors will be able to enter inspections earlier, be able to exempt certain documents, be able to work on the entire territorial territory of the Republic of Croatia, organize in a different way and what is absolutely certain, the work inspection will work differently, be more effective and will work more on prevention and less on punishment but clearly that in those cases that are important for the respect of the law we will be rigorous and I expect you will have the first actions of the labour inspector very soon. They do their job normally, there were no interruptions in their actions and I announce very big steps in the work inspectorate itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64576	37th question, Sunny Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64577	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I refer my question to the Prime Minister, Mr Milanovic. Mr. Prime Minister, public service in the Republic of Croatia, HRT, according to the law, should fulfil its public function among other things by signing a contract with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I believe you know that HRT in its programmes must satisfy the interests of the public, at national, regional and local level. In addition, they have a character of public interest in the contents intended for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Since we have witnessed 11 correspondence being abolished in the Republic of Croatia, it is said that another one will be abolished. The correspondence in Sarajevo and Mostar is abolished, which discriminates against the Croatian people, deprives information and centralizes, if, I ask my colleagues not to exclude me. So, I'll repeat, when the government signed a contract with HRT, let this situation happen, did you allow certain parts of the Republic of Croatia to be marginalized, don't tell me about the non-interference in the work of public service, I know it very well, and this would in no way be a mix, but I am asking you specifically, do you know what it says in the government and HRT contract and have you allowed this concept? I remind you, only 97% of the population of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to pay a fee for the same television that is becoming less and less viewed as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64578	Answer to the question, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64579	So it's up to you to decide when there's some interference and when it isn't, when it suits you, it's not mixing and vice versa. I cannot but take note of the intentions of the administration and the principal director and believe that he works in the best interests of public television. I don't think what you said about the BIH, I don't believe it, it's a mistake. As for numerous small correspondence and Croatian representations in cities and municipalities for which most people in Croatia do not even know they have full drives, I must say that as a consumer, I do not see any concrete benefit from it and that in a country that is connected by highways with distances of a few hundred kilometers that cross in a maximum of two, three hours with the exception of Dubrovnik, that this modern technology is absolutely possible to solve everything. I'm not going to get involved in this, so I'm going to watch, the management has gained confidence and she has to rationalize the business system, whenever she touches it, you're against it, it's not right, to keep more money for programs and production, because very much according to what I know and see goes on cold drive. It's just a mastodon that can't work like that. That's what I'm saying with a common sense. I don't get involved in the details, and he's got his own responsibility, including the Parliament. Therefore, they will file those accounts, but let's not raise a grudge because it's about closing correspondence, now not to mention a small town, but we'd be surprised at the people in which the cities and municipalities of HTV have correspondence with 11 employees. And here we are talking about a ban on public administration employment. So there are a very large number of people who unfortunately do not contribute in the description of their work, but it is important to produce a program. So, if it stays for the program, for the quality drama series, for the Croatian programme abroad, in BiH, for me when you asked me, I give you my opinion. I don't go into details, and I don't deal with them because I don't see anything illegal about it. The administration has been given a mandate for business audits and must enjoy our support for at least some time. And finally, since this is the last question that has been addressed to me, I will take this opportunity once again as Prime Minister to repeat that at this moment in Croatia and that someone wants to have no influence and pressure on the judiciary, even if it has the most hellish intentions, it is impossible. It's not a question of good or evil, of good or bad intentions, it's simply closed, it's a locked door. It can't be penetrated. To speak we have the right, we propose laws, and the Parliament brings them, and we know very well what the laws say, especially in some. We know very well. It's in the courts to carry them out, how they'll do it, they don't answer to anyone, but we'll keep quiet, we won't. And the last thing about this horrible, scary story about the extradition of some people that we've never seen in most of our lives, who were close associates, I'd say friends of HDZ people, that's one of the most defiled episodes of our newest history. So some people obviously want revenge. You are avoiding participation in a committee to determine the facts. So, facts not by police means, but by witnesses of a very, very dark event. Here in your benches are the people who were the most direct protagonists, the guards of state secrets figuratively speaking, the people who know it, we have no idea. For me, therefore, the issue of basic morale for gentlemen such as Karamarko, Mr Miroslav Tudjman, was involved. So it's a simple quest for truth in this country. Well, let's see who's running around here, who's protecting him, who's got motives. That's the point of the story, that's what we need to talk about, support that commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64580	Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. You took advantage of the final part that wasn't at issue. Ivan Shuker, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64581	Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, you violated the Rules of Procedure because after several times what the Prime Minister did today, you did not warn that he must behave in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. He does not realize that he is a guest in this House and must behave according to the Rules of Procedure. So he just does what he wants. He can't do whatever he wants across the street from the square, let alone this high house. Keeping lessons and still being so uninformed is a tragedy for one of the Croatian government's presidents.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64582	I reacted at the end, but I think he could in some way look back at everything that was in the previous questions. Sunny Head, clear for answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64583	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Prime Minister, maybe I should have asked you how you were doing. You'd probably know the answer to that. I'm really sorry that you didn't have the strength here to say, "No, I don't know what it says in the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Government," I didn't get an answer on my question. You've been talking about justice again, and obviously that subject hurts a lot when you need to and my question about a whole other segment to look back on that subject, and I haven't asked you anything about it. So, as information centralization and information control happens, and this will happen if correspondence is lifted, you are not well informed, I am sorry, so you will then, so I guess you will be informed, you may also be crawling regionalisation and centralization at all levels. The courts, hospitals, small post offices, police administrations, then tax administrations and so on, and so on, you suggest. reform measures, which will reduce costs, and there is no usually standstill in any serious analysis of such a thing. For example, you've spent, I'll remind you, 50 million kuna for a clean start so you know that you still don't know anything, you've spent several hundred million on new cars, you've listed, for example, one budget of the city of Sibenik or Varazdin on all possible analyses, consultants, etc., on phones, and I don't think you're still hearing any of our citizens. Mr. Prime Minister, I'm sorry that you're not listening, I'm sorry that by creating a region or so on. the county increase consumption and administration, but it is even more dangerous that you are not interested in the consequences that this could have for the integrity of this country. I would ask you to reset yourself in some way and understand what is actually happening in our country and to hear us because we care about Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64584	Thank you very much. Thank you. And the last question comes from Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64585	I thank the esteemed vice president. My parliamentary question concerns Minister of Finance, Mr. Slavko Linic. On 18 July 2013, a preliminary settlement procedure was opened against the debtor MIRNA d.o.o., and a preliminary settlement procedure was opened on 19 July against the debtor MIRNA d.d. the business system. It would take me a long way to look back at the history of this very significant economic activity in Rovinj, to elaborate results and really impressive figures that not long ago achieved the economic giant MIRNA. I believe that for the time being, it is sufficient to conclude that MIRNA is alive and for the whole time for 135 years and I believe it is important to state that MIRNA survived and converted and privatized in Croatian way. Today, MIRNA employs 250 workers from new plus 250 to 300 cooperatives. In the month of October 2013, the new 62 workers were employed, in 2013 the work in one shift generated revenue of 70 million kuna, all products sold and charged. MIRNA Today produces 200 thousand cans, now it's working in two shifts and MIRNA today has a secure placement for all production. Therefore, not only in Rovinj, but in all of Istria, it is of great importance to continue to operate this economic branch, it is expected that the state as the greatest believer as in some other cases would dare to show its survival today, and tomorrow with a strategic partner to develop this economic subject. as on 13 January 2014, there was an appointment for a hearing at which [[Intruder: Thank you.]] on the plan for the financial restructuring of MIRNA, where the representatives of the Ministry of Finance did not appear, which, in accordance with the Act on Pre-demand settlement, means that the Ministry of Finance is against the proposed financial restructuring plan, which does not necessarily mean anything wrong at all. [[Intruder: Ask a question colleague.]] I just want one more sentence, please. [[Intruder: Ask a question colleague.]] It is good that the Ministry of Finance approved and extended the deadline for a new 30-day hearing, which I thank you for, my question is what is the position of the Ministry of Finance as the largest believer who has over 70% of the amount of demand in terms of proposing an amended plan for the financial restructuring of a society that would open up the possibility of including a strategic partner, and all in order to prevent the initiation of bankruptcy proceedings on MIRNA Rovinj.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64586	Thank you. Answering Minister Slavko Linic's question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64587	21st January of this year has also expired 120 days provided for by law and 60 days of additional deadlines for the conclusion of a pre-accession settlement. But given the lawsuit that followed or the complaint was extended for another 30 days. Unfortunately, owners and debtors do not make a proposal for a pre-fashion settlement. The total debts of HRK 37.2 million relate to the country for the largest part of 30.7. It is proposed to pay off in 5 years with a year of starting, but in the country it is proposed to write off 73%, with financial commitments of 4 and some million just interest and only interest on suppliers. Such a relationship is unacceptable for the Ministry of Finance. If we want to save the debtor, then we must all carry a common burden. It was a work of administration that wasn't done. In addition, the guilt is on the owner and management, we insist on the additional capital is that MIRNA without additional capital will not be maintained. We didn't get an answer on who it was or how much money he was going to invest. Therefore, a very short time for the debtor to equalise relations with all of us who believe that we are going with the same write-off, which means that the write-off of the Ministry of Finance must be less because what we insist on is that the salaries are contributions to health care that we cannot write off, interest and the rest can be paid. But then it must be the financial institutions and the stale believers. There won't be any prenuptials. And we want a quality extra investor. That has to be suggested in the next few days. The latest review of the FINA portal shows that they have not proposed a new proposal. The old ones won't be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64588	The obvious answer to Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64589	Here I would like to thank you personally, Mr. Minister, once again on behalf of all employees for having extended the deadline for a new hearing of 30 days and kindly to this occasion, once again, because this is really about production activity, the activities in which someone has experienced for the past 20 years exclusively as the business property from which he pulled the money, here is to actively engage and to really do everything to make one production activity that has a good perspective, which has an open market and you can count absolutely on the help of the local community and the whole of Istria County. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64590	Thank you very much. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication I would like to inform you that the departments have not delivered an answer to 30 parliamentary questions within the prescribed time limit, and, in accordance with the said business provision, I would like to ask for answers to be delivered within 8 days. We'll take a break by 15.00 hours, and today we'll process 20 points so everyone doesn't specifically ask by what we'll unite according to the agreement of Clubs 3 to 20. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64591	Our colleagues and colleagues continue to work, with: 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Support for Education and Education, with the Final Proposal for the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 583; The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings and amendments can be proud until the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy. You've received reports. We have Deputy Minister Drazen Pross with us. Deputy lead. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64592	Thank you, well-respected Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives, parliamentary representatives. You have before you a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on State Support for Education and Education, so another law that harmonizes Croatia's legislation with EU legislation or better speaking to the acquis of the European Union and to the legal acts of the Council of Europe. We are talking about a law that regulates both the conditions and the rules for granting state support for education and training of workers. In a way that very clearly defines the support of natural and legal persons who carry out economic activity and who allocate financial resources for general education and education, i.e. the specific education and education of their workers or those who participate in youth education. Before we do one review of all these provisions of the law that are changed or better stated all those provisions of the law that we are perfecting and improving this law, allow some clarifications to be made. So, within the meaning of this law, the concept of workers includes, and craftsmen, because the craftsman usually participates in personal work, although with his own craftsmanship he does not conclude the contract of work. Similarly, when we talk about general education and education of general education and education, it is not primarily and directly intended for the current or future job of workers in entrepreneurs who use tax relief for education and education, it is already possible to acquire qualifications that are mostly transferable to other entrepreneurs or to other work areas, which, of course, significantly improves the ability of employment workers. Likewise, when we talk about specific education and education, the one primarily and directly intended for the current or future job of workers in an entrepreneur who uses tax relief and allows for the acquisition of qualifications that are not transferable to other entrepreneurs or to other work areas or which are actually only transferable to the only part. To improve and qualify structures of employees and their training and training for the work on modern technologies, let us remind ourselves that these justified costs of education and education are, of course, in a certain percentage of the entry, entry and cost of tuition in secondary, higher, higher schools and colleges, including postgraduate studies and doctoral studies. Also, the fees for attending and attending congresses and seminars, courses and fees of course to lecturers, instructors and counselling costs in relation to projects of special education and education and the costs of professional literature and of course the costs of depreciation and all those devices used in education and education. Rapid technological progress requires a continuous lifelong education and training of workers. In addition to these positive effects in business, however, insurance and substantial financial resources from employers are also required, and this is why the Law on State support for education and education has been passed, in order to establish financial support as tax relief to those entrepreneurs who refer their workers to education and education. But also for those entrepreneurs in whose plants and workshops are carried out practical teaching and training exercises for professions in the composition of tied crafts because, of course, modern education requires teaching in the process of work, so in the economy itself. When we talk about amendments and additions to this Law, let me point out as particularly important. These amendments and amendments to the laws shall, in particular, be in line with the provisions relating to the conditions for granting support in accordance with the provisions of Commission Regulation of the European Communities No 800/2008 of 6 August 2008 on the assessment of certain categories of support in accordance with the common market in the application of Articles 87 and 88. So we're talking about so-called. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member In fact, here is a necessary clarification. A map of regional support that has been included in the law since the application of this law, which has been included in 2007 and in accordance with which support and accounting and accounting have not been the basis for granting support in accordance with this Regulation, as it is not possible to apply rules for regional support but rules for general common exemptions, which are defined by that Regulation on the general common exemption. Therefore, in this respect, it is very clear that this law should have been harmonised before and at the time of the adoption of the amendments and the addition of the Law in 2008 and thereafter when the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a decision in 2009, hence the decision to publish general rules on joint reports in the field of State aid. This law also regulates the provisions of the laws which lay down the conditions for the use of support for education and education by micro, small, medium and large entrepreneurs, since a valid solution which calls in law on the regulation governing the financial operations of entrepreneurs does not allow for transparent treatment and therefore the provisions set out in this proposal are governed by the provisions of the Small Economy Encouragement Act. This law also lays down the obligation to grant state support for the implementation of practical teaching and apprenticeship exercises, and in accordance with the relevant rules on aid for small value de minimis, which has also been missed in the current text of the law. The method of calculating the support is also established so that the beneficiary of state support considered to be micro, small, medium or large entrepreneurs can reduce the base for the calculation of the income tax or income from the independent activity to 60% of the eligible costs in the case of general education and education, i.e. up to 25% in the case of specific education and training of workers. Exceptionally, an entrepreneur may reduce to 80% of the eligible costs by adding a 20% reduction in the tax base if it is considered a micro and small entrepreneur, i.e. a 10% increase if it is a medium-sized entrepreneur. The law also lays down the rights of users in the case where the support user has obtained state support for education, education on another basis, e.g. An entrepreneurial impulse. Therefore, an entrepreneur who, on the other hand, has provided support for general or specific education and training of workers may reduce the base for the calculation of income tax or income from independent activity by the basis of the same eligible costs, but only up to the level of the above-mentioned maximum aid intensity. So that situation that existed in the current text of the law, e.g. support for seamen who exceeded the maximum amount of aid of 100%, given that it was additionally possible to increase and depending on where the undertaking operates. Normatively, the concepts such as teaching, scientist, education for craftsmanship are also harmonised with the provisions of the education regulations. The need to prescribe the content of the records and documentation for the calculation of state aid and to regulate the issue of the scope of the category of support and the thresholds of individual support and the collection of these support with other support, however, it is also particularly important to establish the monitoring of the effects, incentives and transparency of the granting of State support and, of course, the conditions for granting such support of a small value de minimis support. The Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts shall determine the possibility of assessing the credibility of the eligible costs, and in connection with the education and education of the costs related to education and education and the costs incurred and the prizes paid to scientists. So, and completely by this law, we go one more step further into leadership and discipline and transparency and, of course, the introduction of order. Dear MPs, honourable parliamentary representatives, this law is ultimately aimed at achieving our entrepreneurship development strategy in 2013-2020, which was adopted in this House last year, and I must say without a vote against it. The improvement of entrepreneurship skills is one of the five strategic objectives of the entrepreneurship Development Strategy 2013-2020, which aims to support greater development of small-scale operators through strengthening their administrations and the introduction and operation of a number of highly qualified employees, but also by supporting the lifelong training of employees. Raising the level of entrepreneurial competences through the acquisition of such specific knowledge and skills is a priority and a presumption of economic growth and development of each society because education and education contribute significantly to increasing employability, sustainable economic development and ultimately and actively as an individual in society. Dear Parliamentarians and MPs, as representative of the small and medium-sized entrepreneurship of the Republic of Croatia at the European Commission, and in charge of entrepreneurial learning, please allow me here, too, to point out once more the need for joint work by all of us on the further development of lifelong education and development and the improvement of entrepreneurial competences and even the competence of all employees. Because only one piece of information. Of all employees in Europe, for example, in 2011, only 2.3% were involved in lifelong learning programmes, which is quite lower than the EU average at that time of the EU 27. The average was 8.9% and today is something better but still significantly lower than the EU average. Therefore, the importance of entrepreneurship education is recognised through these annual programmes to encourage the development of entrepreneurship and crafts implemented by the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts. So, an entrepreneurial impulse in which, since 2012, a number of different activities has been fostered by entrepreneurship education and when we talk about some figures in 2012 and 2013, together, it is over 27 and a half million kuna. I must also say in this entrepreneurial impulse for 2014 here, which is very nearly in front of entrepreneurs with the priorities of strengthening the competitiveness of the small economy, improving the entrepreneurial environment, easier access to funding is also a significant place to promote entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship learning. And final. In such complex economic conditions, support for education and training of workers is indeed an important incentive for entrepreneurs and for their work and development on the one hand for the provision of both competitive and educated employees, but also because of the possibility of achieving state support as a single tax relief and thus liberating additional resources for some other entrepreneurial activities. And when we talk again about the figures the total amount of the reduced tax base in 2012 for 7186 taxpayers amounted to over 222 million kuna, which would actually mean this reduction specifically, ultimately a reduction in the tax liability by 80, I apologize, 46 million kuna. Such a trend is, in fact, in 2013. We appreciate that this proposed Law on State Support for Education and Education will certainly contribute to a better qualification structure of employees, their higher productivity and what is most important and important to strengthen the competitiveness of the Croatian economy in the EU. And that is why I urge you to unanimously accept this amendment to the Law on State Support for Education and Education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64593	Thank you too, Deputy. We have one replica, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64594	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, the Deputy Minister has now mentioned in the end what is crucial, and this is the amount that will be reduced in total for income tax and taxpayers' profits. However, the Fiscal Responsibility Act clearly states when such measures are proposed that this must then be indicated. It's a novelty. And we have here still an assessment of the necessary means of law. It says they don't need any funds. However, all the funds that will not be given to local self-government units, the state budget may be the funds of the ministry's gentlemen to look at the fiscal responsibility Act. And secondly, I do not understand this explanation of the reasons for the emergency procedure where it says that the 2013 profit tax returns have been filed since 2 January and for these reasons it proposes that the law enters into an emergency procedure. Well, not a single company can file a profit tax application on January 2nd. By law, it's till 31.4. And if you mention profit here, then you have to mention income, because income is up to 28.2. And the second thing from the Deputy Minister's explanation is not clear to me whether this reduction is recognised, whether it is a reduction in the cost of doing business and, as such, is being recorded or ultimately, when the accounting category comes to the base for profit, it reduces that base. And these are, above all, great differences in legal persons and should be clearly defined. I think it would be more logical for both of us to recognize this cost of education for their employees and for practitioners to book as a classic cost of business and you have that on the terms on which it is recorded, and in the case of income, you have an item on which expenses are recorded and then it will be clear. It's totally unclear how you've defined it in law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64595	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. It's a club debate. Club of Croatian Labourists and Branko Vuksic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64596	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister with associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here I join this optimism that Mr. Pross brought out here, and let alone the luck that everything is the way he says it. He said that if all of us needed to be together, I wouldn't quote literally lifelong education. Of course no one here is against it. However, let us remember what happens in basic education, let alone lifelong education and what we experienced last year, in this month, and what we will experience and how education is still treated not as investment, the most profitable investment, but often, it is seen by the budget, and education is treated as a cost. When you read this law that needs to be completed, there are some indiscretions. The most important conclusion is that investment in knowledge is worth it. It pays to invest in the knowledge of employers, so we are now talking about the very intention of this law, the very intention of the government that proposes this law and the amendments to the law, which is certainly good, excellent for society in general and for employers and for those who have opted for lifelong education. So, all those entrepreneurs who carry out economic activity and participate in the transport of goods and services, so all those involved in trade and trade, can, on the basis of this law, be able to reduce the base of profit tax on behalf of eligible costs for the education of workers. In fact, the point of this support is that education costs are recognised twice. For the first time as a regular cost, something before that, my colleague Shucker said, which reduces profits, and secondly in support. So, what are the reasonable costs? These are the costs of seminars previously spoken by colleagues Pros about it, courses, congresses, the costs of specialization then special education in Croatia or outside Croatia, the costs of lecturers, instructors, the costs of professional literature. The paper of this law is also that the concept of a worker includes a craftsman. It should certainly be welcomed that lifelong education is stimulated by tax relief because we know that a more educated worker is a better worker. Let us just remember that we have spoken several times in the Assembly of Educational Structures in Agriculture which is catastrophic and we know that a year of education of farmers is very much felt in agricultural contributions. In a recent lecture that we were in a round table where we were actually talking about how insignificant our production is in the EU, and it is insignificant above all, and because the educational structure of farmers, all those who are engaged in agricultural production, I will be mild, modest, too modest. And most importantly, farmers, agricultural cooperatives, all agricultural associations have not shown interest in improving this education. I am now asking one question quite certain that both large and small and medium-sized enterprises, those who are just farmers, those who are registered as agricultural producers are mostly 90 percent and some percent in Europe, are small producers, mostly family farms, meaning that large businesses, large competitors dealing with agricultural production, will have the right to support while my question to Mr. Pros, which is with those who would like to be educated and means applying to funds, how can it help and fit and in this law means OPG if it's possible at all? Because it's very important to us. Croatian Labourists will support this law, with all the ambiguities that are in the law need to be corrected in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64597	Thank you, too. We have a replica, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64598	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Vuksic, you've touched the problem of lifelong education, and in any case, it's of an immeasurable benefit and necessity. And in that part, of course, it does not contribute to this and to what we are witnessing about this situation. Therefore, those who must and must invest in this and those who provide these services and education should certainly be both stimulated and able to make quality work possible. But it's certainly good that you noticed that there are problems in primary school, and unfortunately there will be even more. These announcements that schools of small regional schools that we're proud of will be abolished, which have less than 3 or 4 students that won't be. So this is brought into an unequal position, mainly in rural areas, which our children will not be able to educate, where there will be immense difficulties and for local self-government how to do it and how. That's part of the problem. And the other thing you're saying about agriculture, about the education of farmers. Of course farmers are interested in education. I am personally testifying to this because we in my local self-government unit have invested heavily, worked with the Faculty of Agriculture and organized numerous courses and these licensed now in recent times. However, the situation is such that production started to fall, of course by the collapse of the family farms and they will no longer be, are no longer even interested because they do not develop agricultural production. So there's a problem, and of course it's inadmissible that some people will be able to run for something, certain means, and these OPGs and those in the villages that they won't be able to do at all. And it's even more tragic that they fail every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64599	Thank you very much. We have an answer, colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64600	Dear counterpart Milinkovic, we are in agricultural production in the EU, we are about 1% somewhere, so the question is often being asked what we mean as a agricultural country, are we competition in the EU, as farmers in the EU don't look at us at all, for us they don't know, we are insignificant. And that's reality. But that insignificantness is what we encourage within the state itself. You were talking about primary schooling and school termination, primary schools. Well, look, I support the government in an effort to try to rationalise as much as possible in education and even in primary school because you know there are some countries that are huge, that are rich and whose children don't go to school because they're away from the center but that's why they have a video connection. Schools can be organised far better today, today has made so much progress and children have made so much progress using this technology that it is not impossible with a good plan to make a lot of use and without having those like us now have classical elementary schools or classical schools. I hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is also thinking in this direction and that there will be no literal termination of schools and literally that children of the first, second, third or fourth classes on the islands will have to travel to other islands in order to obtain education and use advanced technology today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64601	Thank you. On behalf of SDP Club Damir Tomic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64602	Thank you, Vice President, dear deputy and associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. Entrepreneurship education and the importance of education for the competitive economy of the Republic of Croatia is something that is extremely important to Croatia and its citizens, and the strategy for the development of entrepreneurship is 2013-2020. A vision of the development of society through strategies shows that this government is seriously considering the future of our country. I wish we had at least had strategies in the last 20 years. By now, we would have had personnel based on good strategies for the development of society. In this regard, I just remind myself that the education strategy is working on, and the connection between these two strategies is of paramount importance. Here I'm going to allow myself to draw attention to one question that has been raised here and is not directly related to this law, which is the abolition of regional schools. They will not be abolished, not intensities to abolish schools, but the intensity to reduce the number of administrative personnel it burdens. Do you really think a school of 30, 40,0 50 students should have a principal, secretary, educator and everything else, a regional school, it will become a regional school and that is a rationalisation in which a colleague Vuksic also speaks. But let me keep going on about this law. The improvement of entrepreneurship skills is one of the five strategic objectives, a strategy for the development of entrepreneurship that I already mentioned in 2013-2020, which is in the responsibility of this ministry, which aims to support greater development of small-scale operators and to strengthen their administration by introducing and acting a greater number of highly qualified employees and by providing support for lifelong learning of small-economic employees. Entrepreneurial education is an integral part of lifelong learning because it complements different stages of learning from early age to higher education and beyond in the world of work with the aim of developing individual potentials and only achieving each individual in a social, economic and social sense. The State Support Act for Education and Education was adopted in 2007 in order to establish financial support as a tax relief for entrepreneurs who direct their workers to education and education and entrepreneurs whose facilities and workshops carry out practical training and training exercises for professions in the system of tied crafts. The case law should be harmonised both earlier and when amending and supplementing the law in 2008 and thereafter when adopting the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of March 2009. The proposed amendments and additions to the law on state support for education and education shall comply with the provisions relating to the conditions for granting support in accordance with the provisions of the European Commission's 6th Colovos Regulation on the assessment of certain categories of support to the common market in the application of the General Common Exemption Regulation. The obligation to grant state support for the implementation of practical teaching and apprenticeship exercises has been established in accordance with the relevant rules on support of small value. Furthermore, provisions of the laws laying down the conditions for the use of support for education, education by micro-small medium and large entrepreneurs have been laid down. An important solution, which calls for a regulation governing the financial operations of entrepreneurs in the law, thus the Accounting Act does not allow for transparent treatment because that law does not know these categories of entrepreneurs. Therefore, in this proposal for a law, those provisions are regulated in accordance with the provisions of the Small Economy Encouragement Act. Furthermore, this law lays down the rights of users in the event that they receive state support for education, education on another basis. The normative harmonisation of the concepts of learning scientific and education for craft interests has also been carried out with the provisions of the regulations laid down in the power of education. And in the end, we all agree, it's worth investing in education. The SDP club will support this law. Thank you. Thank you, Vice President, dear deputy and associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. Entrepreneurship education and the importance of education for the competitive economy of the Republic of Croatia is something that is extremely important to Croatia and its citizens, and the strategy for the development of entrepreneurship is 2013-2020. A vision of the development of society through strategies shows that this government is seriously considering the future of our country. I wish we had at least had strategies in the last 20 years. By now, we would have had personnel based on good strategies for the development of society. In this regard, I just remind myself that the education strategy is working on, and the connection between these two strategies is of paramount importance. Here I'm going to allow myself to draw attention to one question that has been raised here and is not directly related to this law, which is the abolition of regional schools. They will not be abolished, not intensities to abolish schools, but the intensity to reduce the number of administrative personnel it burdens. Do you really think a school of 30, 40,0 50 students should have a principal, secretary, educator and everything else, a regional school, it will become a regional school and that is a rationalisation in which a colleague Vuksic also speaks. But let me keep going on about this law. The improvement of entrepreneurship skills is one of the five strategic objectives, a strategy for the development of entrepreneurship that I already mentioned in 2013-2020, which is in the responsibility of this ministry, which aims to support greater development of small-scale operators and to strengthen their administration by introducing and acting a greater number of highly qualified employees and by providing support for lifelong learning of small-economic employees. Entrepreneurial education is an integral part of lifelong learning because it complements different stages of learning from early age to higher education and beyond in the world of work with the aim of developing individual potentials and only achieving each individual in a social, economic and social sense. The State Support Act for Education and Education was adopted in 2007 in order to establish financial support as a tax relief for entrepreneurs who direct their workers to education and education and entrepreneurs whose facilities and workshops carry out practical training and training exercises for professions in the system of tied crafts. The case law should be harmonised both earlier and when amending and supplementing the law in 2008 and thereafter when adopting the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of March 2009. The proposed amendments and additions to the law on state support for education and education shall comply with the provisions relating to the conditions for granting support in accordance with the provisions of the European Commission's 6th Colovos Regulation on the assessment of certain categories of support to the common market in the application of the General Common Exemption Regulation. The obligation to grant state support for the implementation of practical teaching and apprenticeship exercises has been established in accordance with the relevant rules on support of small value. Furthermore, provisions of the laws laying down the conditions for the use of support for education, education by micro-small medium and large entrepreneurs have been laid down. An important solution, which calls for a regulation governing the financial operations of entrepreneurs in the law, thus the Accounting Act does not allow for transparent treatment because that law does not know these categories of entrepreneurs. Therefore, in this proposal for a law, those provisions are regulated in accordance with the provisions of the Small Economy Encouragement Act. Furthermore, this law lays down the rights of users in the event that they receive state support for education, education on another basis. The normative harmonisation of the concepts of learning scientific and education for craft interests has also been carried out with the provisions of the regulations laid down in the power of education. And in the end, we all agree, it's worth investing in education. The SDP club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64603	Thank you, too. We have a few replicas. Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64604	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my dear colleague Tomic, I have not survived, although I am now speaking after you to replicate, perhaps it is a little too difficult to say that this law, or amendments to the law, is proof that this government is strategically considering our future, especially the future of entrepreneurship. However, if that were true, then the results would be quite different these two years. Then entrepreneurs, craftsmen would be in a completely different position than unfortunately after the past two years we don't have time to elaborate but I'm going to love to elaborate later that actually the situation for entrepreneurs and investors is getting harder and worse, but I'm going to say at the end in the replica to you and that's the best confirmation of what I'm saying, is the fact that we're by... In the past year, the index of economic freedom has dropped nine places or less. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, we are entering the EU, we are expected to make economic freedoms progress and that we, as a society in particular, are progressing in this respect of entrepreneurship and crafts, but we are not falling nine places, I think that if you have studied this report it clearly tells you that this government is very, very far, miles and miles away from being strategically understood by both the private sector and the economy of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64605	Thank you. Answer. Comrade Tomic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64606	Thank you, Vice President. So, I haven't said as you have determined that this law is any evidence, I have said, and I will read once again, a vision of the development of society through the Strategy shows that this government is seriously considering the future of our country. Through the strategy, I have looked at the strategy of developing this ministry and the education strategy of the Ministry of Education, and I believe that a public debate on these strategies can contribute to the quality of life of future generations. I looked back on it saying it would be good if we had those strategies 20 years ago. Moreover, the fact that this strategy in this House was voted unanimously shows that we all agreed on such a strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64607	Thank you. Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64608	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, I agree it's worth investing in education. However, the problem is that this government is unfortunately not able to understand it or does not understand it, and some colleagues have already mentioned how you explain then the fact that both teachers and teachers are in their salaries, i.e. those teachers and teachers who work in the education of these particular craft professions. Then such an indolent attitude towards craftsmen in Croatia is simply nowhere seen in let's say in other European countries. And then I'd say that there it is, it's nice to give support to the economy, but please, nicely, the same kind of support should be given to teachers and teachers who educate. And from what right, tell me colleague, once Minister Jovanovic that he simply determines which child he or she is going to go to? If he says he can't do the mechanic anymore, but he has to make the bakery, then he's going to make the baker. This government should be aimed at providing jobs for all occupations, especially when it comes to this class of this Law on craftsmen, to strengthen craftsmanship, to give special support to craftsmen so that these crafts do not close.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64609	Thank you. I'm just asking that we stick to the bill. We have an answer. Comrade Tomic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64610	Thank you very much. Yeah, we started talking about some whole other ministry and a whole other minister, but I'm entitled to a replica, so I'm just going to tell you about what you said were craftsmen, that this government isn't helping craftsmen at all. It is simply not true, today in response to some ministers, we could hear that several thousand craftsmen received support thanks to the work of this government. There are a series of laws and a series of incentives that this government brings right for craftsmen because it is aware of the importance of small and medium-sized enterprises. As far as teachers and teachers are concerned, I totally agree with you, and I can't wait for them to get higher salaries. I can't wait for them to get bigger salaries, but you're also aware that it would be good for them to grow gradually over the past eight years and that we've reached some standard. It's coming from somewhere... She didn't grow up, I worked in education, don't interrupt me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I've spent every eight years in a system of education, which is a high-school, high-school, high-school, non-paying, and I'm telling you responsibly. That's what I'm responsible for. The government has found a terrible situation and we all have to give up some things for the benefit of future generations. For the benefit of future generations, and that's exactly why this law and this education strategy that you've had the opportunity to participate in, and everyone else has a goal, and I think we have a common goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64611	Thank you, too. Stjepan Milinkovic, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64612	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Tomic, I agree with you that it is worth investing in education, not only to be worth it but also necessary, necessary, but, of course, by respecting that everyone has the right to education and respecting that we are in different opportunities and regional opportunities, of course it is important. And in that sense, I'm glad that you said "it won't stop the regional schools", it won't stop the regional schools, maybe you know something more that I don't know, it makes me happy, but it scares me by what Minister Jovanovic is announcing that the regional schools will be abolished. But then you're interpreting it as not going to be an expropriation, but administrative and other technical staff will be in those schools. Oh, please, in small district schools, if you know so much about this problem, who has, there's one cleaning lady, a potter and all at the same time in one person, maybe half the time and one teacher who works there. So what kind of staff is that, rationalization? It's simply bringing into an unequal position, one part of our population, mostly those of our most important, the smallest. It's not good at all, and I don't think a minister should decide on such a step, especially after what happened with that mandatory little school where many units are in big trouble, parents are in trouble, bringing children to school, etc. Well, we're not all in Zagreb, we don't all have opportunities and opportunities to live like that. That's why I'm pushing for them not to be neglected and the other to be able. Let's all be equal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64613	Thank you. We have an answer. I'm a colleague of Tomic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64614	Here, I totally agree with everything you said. Long ago, in one of the first educational discussions, I said that we were not all the same before the Constitution. And it's especially sad when it comes to children. I'm sure there won't be an end to any schools, but rationalization is necessary. It is really unnecessary, I have examples in my area where some small schools insist on having a principal because local authorities would like to place a party member for that principal. I don't think that's justified, I don't think that's good. That school, I'm not gonna name it now, it worked well without that principal. Of course, I'm against the areas you talk about, and there are those in Djakovština, for example, Ladanjska Varoš or some smaller places that are already difficult to reach, it would be sad to have school cut off, and I don't think the intensity of what I'm saying, Minister Jovanovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64615	Thank you, too. I once again appeal we stick to the text of the law, of the bill, because then the replicas and answers to the replicas go the wrong way. On behalf of the HDZ club Domagoj Ivan Milosevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64616	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. There is no dilemma that we will all agree in principle in this assembly that it is necessary to support and that it is good to provide support for support on the one hand for entrepreneurship or private sector education, especially since several places in this law mention medium and small entrepreneurs and craftsmen. And what is also very important is that, in every way, it is motivated by the tax relationship between the economy and education, especially that so-called. All my life's education I'd actually say before some kind of specialization or general education is what's being talked about in this law. On the other hand, however, several remarks should be made to the ministry. First of all, I think that when it comes to these motivations or incentives and support, it could be a little bit simplistic, so I think this is how it's written relatively complex, and I don't think there's any reason why it can be simplified and it can be written much simpler. Secondly, I don't see what makes such a significant difference between support for general education and on the other hand special education more than we all talk about lifelong learning. Furthermore, in the last article number 6 when it comes to assessing credibility and legitimate costs, I only hope that this will be worked out by some sublegal act and that there will be no arbitraryness of anyone in these estimates of the credibility of one cost to another. Both last and not least, counterpart Shuker has already mentioned this difficult to agree but it is not necessary for any financial resources, since when it comes to support which we support it is evident that it will still cost a state or public administration. Now, on the other hand, we would expect this law if such laws were to be proposed, or amendments to the law, and we would expect the Government of the Republic of Croatia to have a much more consistent relationship with total entrepreneurship and craftsmanship, and then we would expect me to say this here, even though it is not the subject of this law, which is that from the 1st coming year instead of extending VAT payments at the expense of small entrepreneurs, then those small, weak jobs after 5, 6 years of crisis do not have to bear the cost of an overpriced state on their backs to facilitate this tax press. No, but also the craftsmen of 1.1.2015 will be disbursed from the charge, but they as well as small entrepreneurs will finance the expensive state and pay in advance what they did not charge when they did business. Secondly, what we would expect, too, is incredibly important not only for entrepreneurs, craftsmen, but generally when we talk about economic growth, which is two things, stability and predictability of both the tax system and the overall economic policy. It's hard to do business when your tax rates change more than one year and they don't have a clear plan not in three years but in six months in advance as much as you want to invest in a sector where you want to be a tax rate, that's another. Thirdly, we would expect that after the Strategic Investments Act was adopted to bring about a particularly significant debate and concern not only through public administration reform, which today has been a great deal of speech on the topical clock, but in all other ways to allow those medium-sized small entrepreneurs and craftsmen to really, within very fast deadlines and very effectively address all bureaucratic obstacles in order to employ people and even make small investments. Unfortunately, we know the big ones are almost gone. Furthermore, we would also expect that through changes and additions, and this is what we have proposed in the Pre-demand settlement Act, we especially care about middle and small entrepreneurs who are most often lost when we look at their size and strength in pre-determined settlements in giving up their claims or reducing them. And finally, the best way to help this whole process and the entire private sector especially with medium and small ones is that instead of buying the power of Croatian citizens, it collapses to strengthen and instead of increasing the tax presses should be relied on and focused on structural reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64617	Thank you, too. We have two replicas, Miss twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64618	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Milosevic, here is how you have now given evidence of how opposition or how you of HDZ are giving me a number of suggestions on how to strengthen small and medium enterprises. Today we heard from latent I'd say prime minister in reality who keeps calling for help not even where he's gone, unfortunately no one listens to this, so he didn't hear you. What's still to be said, and it's about this and this is good to help small and medium and that support is all good and we agree, but here's what happens to craftsmen block accounts for 100 kuna, 100 kuna blocked account. But here we read in the paper I believe it's true that some for 17 million kunas are not blocked because they borrowed money from the assistant of Minister Linic, so he's with 17 million kunas, and that little craftsman and who has a student or one who teaches with him, and that's how he blocks it fine for 100, 150 kuna and good-bye. Well, this is a series of measures that you have now proposed in your debate, we should write down people from the government and try to strengthen small and medium enterprises according to these measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64619	Thank you. You don't want to answer? I'd just like to pray that we stick to the subject. Next replica Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64620	Dear fellow Milosevic, yes, one of the great delusions always at the end of this argument says there is no cost. Because nobody thinks spending is what someone else gets less. There's always that money missing. There is therefore a cost but this cost is not shown by a certain amount of money that a ministry or some state administration should give. Local self-government or state administration will run out of so much and so much money, that means it's actually a cost. Because there's no education without costing anything. With that... It's not the classic cost, it's the investment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this definition that's being put in here is always likely to be misleading so that we don't ask well and why it costs so much. That's just one hoax. It's a hoax used by the former and current government. I don't think it's a delusion that's meant to be bad, etc., it's actually a practice that's been used for decades. The prime minister did not hear what you were saying about what you were proposing, however, I will only abuse for half a second but the prime minister has not even heard what HTV is proposing and does not understand the essence of public television because today he was talking about it and we cannot replicate. Well, then, nothing new.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64621	Thank you. Answer. My fellow Milosevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64622	Well, you're right, colleague Vuksic, except for one correction. I think that when you compare, significantly when you compare the former government and the current government during the term of office of the former government, at least concrete indicators and results could be discussed, and even on public television, there were shows such as the open air, and could be discussed so they faced themselves with Croatian viewers, voters of power and opposition. So there was a debate on the decline in GDP, and there was a debate on race or unemployment, and investment was debated. There are no more discussions today. The facts, therefore, of statistics, of what is not a question of verification but of what is clearly available to all today, and when media are trying eventually not to publish some indicators which unfortunately are all of the order for economic activity negatively about this debate. The government says there's order. The result is brilliant, we're approaching 400,000 unemployed, industrial production is completely ruined. So, while others are growing in the wider region, exports and production of our declines for a whole series of reasons, and the government has the courage and the cheeks to appeal to the former government after two years of office. And I'm going to end up here because today Mr. Prime Minister mentioned that they inherited it, took control of the country in recession, a depression that is an absolute lie. So, Mr. Prime Minister forgot that the second and third quarters of 2011, we had economic growth. And the decline in unemployment and the growth of investment, and all of this is forgotten together with the proven fall of the tax press. So, as much as any crisis tax, he was abolished 6, or 12 months earlier. That there was not a single rebalancing in 2011 and that the deficit if we were to exempt the shipbuilding was less in 2011 in the pre-election year than in 2013 not to speak. These are all key, i.e. concrete indicators that are verifiable by the State Statistics Service, and no matter who's talking to them, these are facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64623	On behalf of the HNS Club Igor Coleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64624	I would like to thank the esteemed Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and deputies, the esteemed Deputy Minister with an associate. Seven articles, seven reported, I won't waste your time, too, but allow me a few notes on behalf of the HNS Club. The HNS Club of course also supports the basic idea of this Law in the original and these amendments and additions that we are talking about today. The problem that we all have together on any part of the political spectrum was that the state could actually be very difficult to force people to behave positively or behave the way we think they should be positive. However, the incentive of this kind, in this case tax relief for education is exactly one way we can achieve that people behave positively or invest in their own education. And in this case perhaps even more important in the education of their employees and in fact in some way their community in which they live. The situation with employment and unemployment in Croatia is very complex, we are all painfully aware that we have very many unemployed and it is the very theme of our talks. On the other hand, however, especially colleagues and colleagues who come from the economy know well. On the other hand, whenever you talk to employers and companies, the growing problem is finding the employees of the right qualifications that are needed and, in particular, the growing fear is that in the situation of growth, development and recovery of the Croatian economy, there will be less and less available of those qualifications, those professions and those levels of education that will be needed by a modern economy in order to function in the circumstances and environment in which our economy operates. In other words, all the research and discussion analyses show us is that restorers and let alone the growth and development of the Croatian economy can only be those activities, only those branches and only those companies that employ most of it or to the greatest extent highly educated or highly qualified workforce in all possible variants, professions, activities, however you turn. Times of cheap, unqualified labour are for Croatia, for Europe and for the entire Western world fortunately, thank God, how pleased you are, long behind us. In this sense, the HNS will, of course, support this bill, but note that this is only the first step and not the final solution to the problem and not the point where we can stand and lean into our chairs and enjoy the results. We must, first of all, change the educational structure of the total working population in the Republic of Croatia thoroughly, and in the second step, we must also change the structure within highly educated or highly qualified, because there are also the ratios of skills and professions that people have, unfortunately, do not meet the demands of the economy that we would like and that we should have in order to be one functioning economy of the Western world as we like to see ourselves. In other words, in cooperation with the Ministry of Economy and with the Ministry of Education, you will have to go further and deeper than this, with additional incentives for education at all levels at all levels and then in the second step special incentives for certain professions, for certain skills and for certain skills that will be particularly deficited at the time when the Croatian economy, and we expect this this year, finally reverses the trend and starts from the time of recession at the time of recovery, and then growth and development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64625	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Ante Sanader, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64626	I think Mr. Coleman hit the center by me because that should be the goal of these incentives. We give incentives, but we don't see any feedback. Incentives should be given for what the market needs, what society needs, for those occupations that are deficiting, which we do not have or for occupations that have the possibility of hiring tomorrow. We also give incentives for seminars. The employer organizes some kind of seminar, some kind of education through the seminar, and we know that it is often a trip and I think it should be thrown out of that, or the whole point is that incentives in situations where we don't have money, when the situation is difficult then there's no point throwing them away for what they don't need, or the market doesn't need a total society or taxpayers who end up paying for it. And that's why I think the ministry should pay attention to that. Now, through this law, it must be too late. Or teaching, take lessons where people go to some artisan to teach, then the craft is the happiest not to see that student or tell me you're home, at 9:00 you can be free. It would be good to have some kind of product, and the one that goes to the teaching that he as a result of his work to give some product and then you'll get these incentives for teaching. This is certainly a complex topic and I don't think it's good, it's not just here, unfortunately in many areas incentives are given so, but at times when the financial situation is difficult and when we're in the economic situation that we are, it would be good if we had feedback, or if the funds weren't thrown away. What doesn't need for the market and what doesn't have its own future.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64627	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Coleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64628	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I generally agree with you fellow although I must stress that I do not think that investing in education is any kind of loss of actually money and in this case an incentive in the form of tax relief. Okay, every education, every promotion can be considered justified but I actually agree generally with what you're saying. We will have to see what is particularly important, what is particularly necessary, what is particularly deficiting and in this sense go towards further incentives to this and these skills, these knowledge of preparation is, or is, and will probably be presented soon and an industrial strategy that will also include some of the answers and these issues that we are talking about here today on this very limited law on the possibility of radical change in this sphere, but I certainly agree that one of the basic steps that is ahead of us is to define both in the economy and in education what are activities, what are knowledge, what are the skills that we must specifically encourage to function as the economy we want to be, regardless of probably political colors.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64629	Thank you. Stjepan Milinkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64630	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Coleman, I'm glad you mentioned this moment that craftsmen are finding it harder and harder to find professional and qualified workforce, if I remember your quote correctly. But you have indirectly confirmed what was opposed and what was warned by the Croatian craftsmen's association during the adoption of this Law on crafts. In fact, we know that in Western countries it's craftsmanship and mastery that it's of immeasurable importance and this new law they have warned that it will further lead to the collapse of the quality of this service, the collapse of quality because it will simply, to caricate a little bit and say, simply a hair salon let's say, perhaps I'm not speaking exactly, able to do volcanic services as I understand it. So I certainly advocate education, I advocate professional and quality labour but of course with respect and that tradition that craftsmanship has and mastery above all else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64631	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64632	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. I wasn't actually just talking about craftsmen or maybe I wasn't even talking about craftsmen in the first place. You take a whole series of activities, pharmacies, the financial industry, in various forms of management, we lack qualified people, so in one whole series. Electric industry, electricity industry, so in one whole series of industries that can be the cornerstone of the recovery and growth of the Croatian economy. We have, at this point, the problem of the lack of qualified people on the labour market, whether in the perspective of the employers' fear that at the moment when the situation comes that they will be able to withdraw the new employees' market, they will actually have no one to withdraw. That's what I'm... I mean, anyway, you're not wrong, but I'm not just limited to crafts, I'm limited to the general economy as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64633	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Domagoj Hajdukovic, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64634	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. So I think that today we are passing an extremely important law, a law that is important for the Croatian economy as well as for the debate so far has been shown by the education system in the Republic of Croatia. So this is a law governing education, i.e. state support for education and education, as has already been said in the form of financial support, tax relief, etc. employers or entrepreneurs who send their employees to education or education or those who teach practical education or education in their workshops, or practice in particular craftsmanship. What I think we're losing sight of is exactly how much resources, so we're talking here that go into the economy, so through tax relief. It's a little less than 50 million kuna. If we take into account all the other parafiscal intrusions above all that this government has so far abolished, I think we've really given the greatest amount to make it easier for entrepreneurs to exist on the market. You're talking tax press, so first of all, about raising VAT, but the VAT ladies and gentlemen are paying the end-user. That entrepreneur who doesn't pay VAT primarily cheats on the state, but cheats on those consumables of its goods and services. If you drink coffee in a cafe pay taxes, and the caterer doesn't pay taxes to the state he didn't steal from the state, he stole first of all from you who fairly paid the tax. But what I think is also said several times in the debate so far before we look at a few items that are important to me in this law, I would like to say the following. One of the colleagues who spoke on behalf of the club mentioned that lifelong learning was a choice. Lifelong learning is no longer a choice, lifelong learning is a need, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, today's market is, above all, different, more dynamic, changing faster, and very often, even a legislator cannot monitor events on the market that are happening at the rate. We are witnessing that certain occupations are extinct, new creations, formal education, for example, some of these new ones are still missing, etc. etc. We need to distinguish when we talk about education and the skills needed to perform on the labour market, formal and informal education. I think that this government has also made a step forward with the Croatian qualification framework that has opened the space for people who have in informal, therefore extra-institutional ways acquired certain knowledge and skills to do so, so that they can also testify in paper form that they can assure employers that these skills exist. When we talk about our education system in general, we often miss out on what is very important to me, which is an education, or educational component. Students, students, all those who perfect must bear in mind that they do not study for a degree, that they do not learn that in the end they have some equipment, but that they learn that they really do have some skills and gain. As I did myself, so I went through as a student, later and as an educational worker of our entire education system, and unfortunately I can say that a lot of them are learning about it, for a degree. We must simply raise awareness of our new generations that they need to learn for themselves, not to learn for the grade or for others, but for themselves, for their knowledge and that they will need those skills when they come to the labour market one day. Because your labour market is in liberal and more liberal economies than it is in Croatia. It's that your employer asks you what you can do, not what you're up to. I would certainly point out, therefore, how important education is for entrepreneurship, but also for all other economic activities. So, I mentioned how much the labour market has changed, how dynamic it is, but also when we talked about the entrepreneurship development strategy from 2013 to 2020, one important problem, excuse me from 2013 to 2020, one important problem we defined, and that is that people in Croatia are afraid to go to entrepreneurship, that there is a certain fear, I would say more hesitation to that. We need to empower our and future entrepreneurs first of all, primarily in compensation, knowledge and skills, so that they can be successful in entrepreneurship tomorrow, or in order to go on the market without fear. Because this is also the goal of the development of the entrepreneurship development strategy. So, first of all, the aim is to provide support to as many small-economic operators as possible to strengthen, to create new ones and therefore to find their niche in the market where they can live stablely, grow, and of course achieve education. Lifelong learning as I have already mentioned is an important feature of such a dynamic market. I'll give you one example. So not long ago the blacksmith was completely extinct. You don't have a blacksmith anywhere anymore, so I'm talking about the last century when there were others. You don't have a blacksmith anywhere, you can't get an education for a blacksmith. So that already falls not even into a traditional craftsmanship as much as I would call it a historical cultural heritage. On the other hand, you have something that's developed over the past few years, and that's mostly what I'm talking about in the IT sector, so, let's say, the development of mobile applications. That's why formal education is now available in some Western countries, but in Croatia, as far as I know, there is not. I believe that perhaps at FER or ETF and other colleges dealing with this topic may slowly have. But a lot of people who successfully exist on that market today, and they wouldn't believe it alive, so among us, they're either successful freelance entrepreneurs, or they're already in what form on the market are self-taught. Therefore, people who have either participated in the creation of this particular market or those who have learned the competences and skills they need to be able to sell their services and products effectively on the market. When we talk about public money, and here we talk about public money, here's a colleague Vuksic who noticed it too well, so money is a matter of whatever it is not considered a cost, so it won't, or the state will forgive part of the tax transparency is very important to me. Every time we talk about public money, public finances and the management of the same transparency is very important and because of this, and since reading this law, I have been given the impression that transparency will increase this is something that I can particularly welcome. So, the goal of all of this, is the strategy for the development of entrepreneurship, which includes, of course, the strategy for education, education and science that is in the form of, therefore, which is actually serving as I would say, the supporting branch of the labour market above all and the development of individual potentials and the creation of each individual on the market. And that's very important. So it is important to raise awareness of people, first of all, that they have skills, that they perform independently on the market, that they have knowledge and that they go without fear and go into entrepreneurial waters, create, hire and grow because this is the ultimate goal of the strategy for the development of entrepreneurship, but also of the Republic of Croatia. So what I'd like to point out is that you should learn to be an entrepreneur. And I'm afraid that our education system at least at this point and in this composition I believe that it will change after the strategy has been adopted, but unfortunately it does not create in the true sense of the word. Therefore, because of all of this, this law certainly has my support. What I am very pleased to see from the report from the Committee of Resorship is the support of the law is unanimous and I am glad that there is a consensus in this House on the need to strengthen our economy in all ways and through lifelong learning and education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64635	Thank you. We have replicas. Miss twilight, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64636	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Hajdukovic, I've really listened very carefully to you and this impression of your theoretical debate is really good, it's in place. It's just that theory is one thing, and practice is something else. And the fact that this law might be one round that's closed means all this expensive education, and then support small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, that is, craftsmen, and here we've started the economy. But it's not, it's already shooting at the part where you're saying that there's an end-user cheating, and that's the buyer of a product. It is true, however, that end-user you're talking about has very little and they can't buy any product from any craftsman. A few products in our economy, because we have you know how many unemployed 375 thousand, we have 51% of young people who have completed schools not only high but also secondary and this vocational education of the unemployed. And you know, you said something, we need to teach them to learn for themselves. It's always been, they've always told us, and my teachers and my parents that we learn for ourselves, not for them and for anyone else. And indeed, most of us, when we went to some higher or higher schools, went to study what we wanted. We had no idea that we should graduate from college in some age of 38 or 40 for a degree so that a minister could appoint us as his assistant or deputy. We never thought about it. And the picture gets so ugly in all of this that you really need to copy your diploma, even if it's when a minister friend of yours sets you up regardless of the experience and the will.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64637	Thank you. Next replica, excuse my colleague Hajdukovic's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64638	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, actually, when we talk about this law, this is one wide range of topics that we've touched. What you were saying about the end-user, so that's where I first reflected in tax policy. So, that if we're talking means... With this law, it doesn't have that much to do with it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I always wanted to draw attention to the fact that it's always the end-user who always pays taxes, and that actually those who keep the tax secret cheat primarily on us, or the users we pay. The truth is that the number of people with purchasing power is shrinking, unfortunately that's how it is. And in the economy, I was in 2009, in 2010, I remember when panic occurred. I'll remind you we're just statements in a banana. So, there was still money on the market back then, but there was a state of siege when the first man of government told you that we were in a banana and a complete panic. So he tightened his seat belt there and where there was a real need and where it wasn't. And that's why our market started counting on you already in those days, even though I say real reasons for concern, at least at that point there wasn't. Later, unfortunately, it turned into something else. But I'm afraid today, unfortunately, those citizens who have money are very, very hard to spend too. And in order for the market to work, we need to have a constant fluctuation of funds. And you say learning for yourself, that they taught me that and formally again as you say theoretically, but I'm afraid until the employer in the labour market asks you what you're interested in but what you do is that it won't reach those of us who are educated by then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64639	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64640	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Hajdukovic, I'm glad there's such an agreement about this law. And I agree with you that lifelong education is a need, that it is an necessity, but it is also a obligation. And that's why it scares the moment where I was talking about elementary school education where it's announced, eventually, don't let God cut out these little school districts where it couldn't possibly be evenly possible for all of our smallest ones to learn and get that education. The other thing you said was that education was important. Of course it's important in every area, in entrepreneurship. So here I come from a branch today where there's been a lot of speeches where we also have to license ourselves every four, five years to renew our license and then educate and therefore meet certain conditions. But of course, you said there was a certain fear in certain people about all these activities. And what I'm saying is that mostly in that area that I know, agriculture, there's no fear, they're very aware, and they're very happy to be educated. Even in local self-government, we are in some way encouraged to provide them with various educations that are necessary today, from handling a chain saw to the next point, which is in the debate about the use of pesticides in which they are insisted but we are afraid and we warn that they will not be in an equal position and the possibility of achieving the means in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64641	Thank you, too. Answer me, Comrade Hajdukovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64642	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, it was already about this. I'd avoid that term abolishing regional schools, it's more integration. In some cases, even the elimination of such a situation may be a literal elimination and a better situation. I'll give you a specific example. The Blaga Zadar elementary school in Vukovar must have one of Lipovac's district schools. It's a small place near Vukovar, or it's practically connected to Bor's settlement, shared by some two kilometers. When I left that school, the Lipoviča district school had all of you ten students in three classes, with the fact that there were also Croatian departments and departments that attended teaching in minority language and letter. The situation at that school didactically every way because when we say so, in fact, in a small house in that village, they were very bad while they were very good at parent school. So, first of all, we're talking about installations, doactic equipment, what teachers can give these kids at that home school. Since it's only a mile, almost two kilometers, I don't see what's causing that school to exist in that form. Because you remember yourself, and my generation used to prevent and much more walk to school, but that's no longer a problem, and that's where you can already organize transportation or transportation already exists for higher-class students who attend higher classes in so-called parent school. And you mentioned licensing, your profession medical profession has a very good solution, although other professions don't have, have a formal obligation of lifelong learning, but unfortunately that usually comes down to that human factor that someone really wants to and does, and someone does. That's what needs to be avoided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64643	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate. Maria Lugaric, here are your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64644	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. A lot has been said in this debate to me as a person who has long been involved in education and somehow I try to promote the importance of education and learning, to rejoice in a way that there is so much if there is nothing else then words of support on learning and education itself. But it seems to me that we need to put the debate back a little bit of ground and consciousness into some more realistic frames. In fact, you know how much of this support for education, education, I'm going to say at the end of that term in the total share of all the support, that's 0.5% of the total state support. If the total state support is removed from support for this large agriculture, fishing, then these support for education and education is climbing to a very large 0.8-1% depending on the year but it is somewhere in order. When we turn that into concrete money it's about plus minus a little bit but the last 5, 6-10 years it's going to be 45 million kunas per year. So it seems to me that there is no subject on which there are more words of support, more affirmative exposure and which has a disproportionately small amount or financial impact. What's tragic is that it should be exactly the opposite not only of us who do education like to talk about how important education is, how the only expression of lifelong learning is that we've all learned the terms now, and now we all agree, but from the basic fact that today the student who writes any technical profession, for example, was medicine, but almost every profession at the time he graduates in five years, what he learned in the first year, becomes not an irrelevant knowledge but in any case obsolete. The amount of particularly technological and technological change is such that knowledge is doubled between three and five years, it was once in hundreds of years and was measured over the duration of one working century, now it is not enough for the course of formal education. On the other hand, life, years of life and years of work are extended. When we switch over these two facts, we can actually conclude that the person who completes his formal education and whether that or at the higher school level at the time he enters the labour market actually all he can do or what remains of it is to start learning from the beginning. If she wants to be competitive and the company she works in wants to and needs to be a competitor. In this context, the point is to increase the personal competitiveness of entrepreneurs or those who create new values. The second thing I wanted to say about this law is about practical teaching and learning in the system of tied crafts. It is extremely important for students in craftsmanship because it is a place where they actually learn or should learn their profession. The sad truth that actually these students learn from craftsmen mostly learn everything not only what should be a profession, they learn how to cook coffee, learn places, learn how to clean, but a small number of them, however, would not want to generalize because there are different craftsmen learning what they should actually learn from their professions. I understand there craftsmen, with many of them I have spoken on the subject and they really have difficulties, they are financially pressed, they are very difficult to actually finance that education craftsman. I would argue, Mr. Deputy Minister, that we do not limit these support for education on tied crafts to five or 10 percent, respectively, the commitment of the number of students, rather than reducing their tax base, i.e. to their tax relief in the amount of the really incurred expenditure. The more that we have a little discrepancy where there is a law on secondary vocational education, the more we have defined percentages how much these fees must be. In the law of craft, we said it would be arranged by the minister of crafts by a rule. It is a tendency to reduce this, to reduce your fees to the students in order to make it easier for the craftsmen. On the other hand, the committee responsible for implementing and overseeing the implementation of the European Social Charter warns us because we are violating Article 7. The European Social Charters that we have committed ourselves to respect because we have too low a fee for those children who are learning. Therefore, if we need to increase it a little bit more to the actual amount and a little bit different structure, not only may we reduce the base or in a different way to help craftsmen because it is really important for students, and it is important for craftsmen. And third and last, I remember when that law was passed in 2007 or 2008 and then I have to admit it wasn't particularly clear why the law was called about support in education and education. Then the law speaks of education and education on these basic knowledge and in special education and education. Nobody was able to explain it to me then, and today I still don't know what the difference between education and education is. We can talk about education and learning, learning as... the formal process of education, but education and education as a common syntagma is colleagues and colleagues, I apologize for saying this, but foolishly it doesn't mean anything, it doesn't mean from the first day since when this law exists. We had all kinds of variants, so we certainly gave education, I would like to talk in another interaction about education and learning support, if there is a whole part of informally acquired knowledge that is not subject to the concept of education, but they fall under learning, and through these other instruments, the primary qualification framework they will be both formally recognised and certified and on the labour market itself, so it would be right to talk about education and learning and support for one and the other is really pointless. I have to admit if someone would explain to me what education means, which is the difference between those two words, I would save myself alive and my big dilemma that lasts for six, seven years would really solve it. And to conclude, there is really no other way out than to invest in education. It's not just the business of the state. It's business and entrepreneurs, because of them, their own survival and their own progress. It may not be directly related to this, but it is linked because uneducated people can work hard and research and scientific projects, we have brought ourselves into a situation today that almost 100% of the sciences financed from the budget from state sources are mainly fundamental research and that investment in research that was previously done in companies that would then be more applied research because it would aim to change or produce technology or the production process itself or any kind of promotion we no longer have, and that is why one part of our companies has examples and other types and then also craftsmen and stagnates in their development and competitiveness, and of course the world is accelerated, the development of globally simply grinds. You or you run along with everyone else, if you're just walking and walking slowly forward you don't go forward, you're lagging there really is a big problem. And I think that maybe we should put a little more effort into getting to know both entrepreneurs and craftsmen and all those who are developing their own jobs on the importance of education. And last in the Labour Act we have defined when it can be used and how many days a worker can spend on education. We've got a lot of rigid legislation here. I think it's three to five days or something. In countries with the most developed economies and the most developed systems of lifelong learning, it is almost 20 to 30 days at an annual level. So there are a lot more of these cubes that we have to lay down to bring these sad ones that I mentioned at the beginning, which is that 0.5% of all state support are this support for education, I'm not going to say for education but for education to increase to some reasonable percentage. What's particularly tragic is how the crisis started with us, and these support went down, and it was supposed to be the other way around. The countries that managed to get out of this global crisis as the crisis began, so they increased these support for education and these others for research and development dramatically. They're low to us anyway, and they've fallen something lower. Until we change it from one side in our heads, and on the other hand structurally, I'm afraid there won't be any bigger results. Support for this law, however, seems to me to have little power now because it seems to me that there is a political consensus to go a little more courageous steps in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64645	Thank you, too. The first replica of the twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64646	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, I just wanted to look back a little bit on the part where you talked about craftsmen and craftsmanship. In one sentence, you said that they teach children more and more to be washed and washed there than they learn to do. I'm going to tell you something and you've mentioned this part that's difficult to pay, but the fact is that we don't have the law on craftsmanship and this law on education and in vocational education, because trust me that craftsmen, especially those craftsmen who are threatened, would love to have children who would teach who would be scientists as they used to call them. The problem, however, is that these children do not have a harmonised number of teaching theories and what they need to do in a master’s workshop or craftsmanship. And I think that's a big problem. So you should in some way here's how you mentioned the name of this law yourself, so you mentioned something else, really harmonize those laws so that everyone doesn't drive their own water to their own mill, so when something like this comes up and starts talking, you see that each other's law doesn't really support each other. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64647	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64648	I'm surprised that you, too, are here in the Parliament all the time, as you missed the fact that we've brought these laws in line and we're fully in full compliance with the Law on crafts and the Law on Professional Education. Including that according to the new methodology were adopted these professional curricula in collaboration with the craft chamber. So that's just the wrong thing to say. Secondly, you said that craftsmen would love to have children they would have taken as scientists. The situation is completely opposite for us children who go to craft schools can't find craftsmen to go to school with because they won't take them anymore because it's hard to pay them. Therefore, the importance of these support is that in some ways what they give them is used as a fee for teaching as a tax relief. I mean, it's counter-coworker twilight, but quite the opposite, that's where you made a little bit of a mistake, i.e. You've made a lot of mistakes, but good.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64649	Thank you. Ada Damianac, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64650	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, I fully agree with everything you have said, especially in investing in education because it is the foundation of the development of our society and that basis that will contribute definitely to our better life. And this investment in lifelong learning and entrepreneurship. I think we're going to agree and open up a new topic here, maybe, when we're working on a strategy to develop basic education and start estimating those educational subjects like the subject of a technical culture where this innovation was just created, this craftsmanship spirit was created. And that we will all find strength and will to support it. I believe that just through this lifelong investment of our education, through this innovation, through innovation and small entrepreneurs, students who learn in such crafts if they have such innovations that entrepreneurs should also be helped in tax relief, means when these things happen to students. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64651	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Lugaric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64652	I agree with my colleague Damian about what you said. Namely, the draft strategy of education, science and technology is based on actually two things. One is the concept of lifelong learning and the other is the concept of key competences. Europe has long defined key competences because it has actually proved that it is not enough to learn knowledge or a particular profession during education. It's exactly what I said because it's just getting too old. Rather, we need to learn how to learn, or learn, how to acquire new knowledge, and they have much to do with it now. But, yes, I agree, but in some ways we have to make one change of the paradigm from learning content to learning more methodology or developing skills and technical but also all others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64653	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later. I'd like to thank the Deputy Minister for his cooperation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64654	We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on State Support for Education and Education, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 583. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I ask the Deputy Minister of Entrepreneurship and crafts Mr. Drazen Pross to declare the proposed amendments. Amendment number one to Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64655	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64656	Amendment No 2 to Article 3
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64657	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64658	Amendment number 3 to Article 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64659	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64660	Four on Article 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64661	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64662	And the fifth on Article 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64663	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64664	Sixth.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64665	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64666	No more. Thank you very much. I find that amendments become an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that with 76 votes in favour and 31 abstentions, the law has been adopted in the form proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64667	We're going to go to: 3. Proposal for a law on the sustainable use of pesticides, with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 567; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. And amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. You've received reports. We have Minister Tihomir Jakovina with his associates. Prime Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64668	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. The area of sustainable use of pesticides in the Republic of Croatia is governed by the Law on plant protection products and by the Regulation establishing an action framework for the achievement of sustainable use. The provisions of Directive 2009/127 EC have been transposed into the Regulation establishing an action framework for the achievement of the sustainable use of pesticides adopted under the Law on plant protection products. Since the Plant Protection Act was adopted in 2005 and the Directive in question, Directive 2009/128 published in 2009 does not contain all the necessary provisions for the establishment of a system of sustainable use of pesticides as well as infringing provisions. The area of plant protection and pesticide residues in food is also regulated by regulations at European Union level, by legal acts which are not transposed into national legislation. In June 2013, the following laws were adopted allowing for the direct application of the Regulations. Law implementing Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 and the Law implementing Regulation (EC) No 396/2005. Since more than 70% of the articles of the Plant Protection Act have been abolished by those laws on the implementation of the Regulations and the fact that this Law does not contain all the necessary provisions for the full establishment of a system of sustainable use of pesticides. The proposed act on the sustainable use of pesticides fully regulates the system of sustainable use of pesticides and removes existing deficiencies and fully ceases to be in force the Law on plant protection products. The proposed new law that is before you is governed only by pesticides that are the means of plant protection. The aim of the law is to reduce the risk and negative effects of the use of pesticides in a way that ensures a high level of protection of human and animal health and environmental protection and the preservation of biodiversity. The proposed law regulates the adoption of a national action plan to achieve the sustainable use of pesticides and its regular revision at least every 5 years. Furthermore, a system of education for all pesticide users, distributors and advisers is required, then a system for the distribution and sale of pesticides, a system of mandatory, regular examination of pesticides, mandatory application of the principle of integrated plant protection, and a reduction of the use of pesticides and risks in certain areas. In order to implement this Act, it is not necessary to provide for additional resources in the state budget, as funds for the implementation of this Act are provided on the basis of existing rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64669	Thank you, Minister. We have a replica, Drazen Djurovic, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64670	Here, thank you, very briefly. Mr. Minister, from this presentation of yours and it is very difficult to read from the law whether regular examinations of pesticide machines are related and to the introduction of regular examinations for spinal sprinklers or they will be excluded from any regular controls such as other machines that will be in use.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64671	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64672	Here's a quick answer. My back sprinklers are off, I'm talking about machines. ... The back sprinklers have been excluded. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64673	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. ... /The noise in the hall./... My colleagues and colleagues, I would like to ask before I give my colleague Milinkovic the word from HDZ, let us have patience and allow our colleagues to debate. Here's my colleague Milinkovic on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64674	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President and Mr. Secretary with an associate. Well, many times in this House, we've discussed chemicals, various toxic substances, contaminants, and we've passed certain laws, of course with a fundamental goal of ensuring quality food, of course environmental protection, as we've heard, and of course improving the health of our population. As for quality food and food, unfortunately we are witnessing less production, less and less food production, which is of course not good, in these circumstances imports of everything and everything, so we hear a lot of times that we consume, a lot of times it may be a difficult word, not some way unquality, there is an expression of that and garbage even, and even once in the case of a state inspector, it is obvious that it would not consume certain food under any circumstances. And as for health care and health, we've heard a lot today in this sense, and it best tells us how healthy we are a short time ago she published a survey that spent 89 million on antidepressants, 85 million kunas for various tranquilizers. But let's let it go, by the way, so let's go back to these contaminants that can be of that natural origin. We remember those toxins, those aflatoxins that were talked about, and then those that came from the environment, and, of course, those who are resident from a certain treatment process in the course of production. And in that sense, pesticides take an extremely important place, so a few words about what pesticides are. The pesticides are selective synthetic toxic substances designed to destroy harmful animal and plant organisms. They are used in primary agricultural production for the protection of crops as well as for the destruction of storage pests. According to chemical composition they can be inorganic substances as well as substances of plants, bacteria and mushrooms. Organic synthetic substances such as organochlorinated and organophosphoric compounds, triazines, derivatives, phenoxy, carbon acids, synthetic pyroids, etc. The most commonly contain toxic elements such as mercury, arsenic and phosphorus and others, some of them are carcinogenic after prolonged consumption, and the most important are pesticides and insecticides, insect destroying agents, standing parasites, flies and ticks and herbicides, weeds, etc. The food therefore appears as I have said in the form of residuals So it is quite evident from this point on that it is extremely dangerous substances to be under legal control, and in this sense we have heard that it is legally regulated by this law, the 2005 Law on plant protection, and then the 2009 Regulation establishing an action framework for the achievement of the sustainable use of pesticides, and that, we know that it has worked, has been incorporated and the directives have been laid down, but when I remember from my small environment how it worked, it is many times I have been in the course of these various sprays and I have been a bit disgusted by looking at the way they were available in many environments, so these pesticides, regardless of the professional preparation and knowledge of those with minimum protection measures and potential dangers and the health of those who did so. There were also education programmes, and there were also a number of other things missing, and it was not just for us, and in the European Union they noticed already around 2002 that there were more amounts of these harmful substances than those allowed, past the allowed norms, and in that sense, it was going to say the necessary legislation, and this is where the thematic strategy is adopted... on the use of pesticides that puts in place a series of measures. And as it is said, this said directive of 2009 therefore in some way emphasizes this, with the result that our 70% of these articles are being abolished from our Law on plant protection products and therefore this law will now, in any case, put particular attention to the mandatory system of basic and complementary education of all professional users of pesticides, distributors and advisers. The distribution and sale system of pesticides shall be arranged, electronic records of distributors, phytosanitary and information systems shall be established, etc. So the same information is being raised to the public, which I think is very important. It also emphasizes the use of pesticides in the treatment of air, making it increasingly necessary and thus being implemented. So, the Ministry of Agriculture is tasked with saying all of this, and I think that this law is going to improve this important area in any case, so let's just say a better application, health protection and all that in that sense, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this law, of course, with the mention that we will always talk about that problem of need, hence creating quality food, domestic milk and everything else that Mr. Minister needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64675	Thank you, too. On behalf of the SDP club Mario Moharic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64676	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of this debate, I will look back on the recent history of legal regulation in the protection of plants. In the early 1990s, after the creation of an independent Republic of Croatia, the first institutional activities in the field of plant protection were focused on the establishment of inspection services responsible for plant protection, the establishment and work of the Commission for Plant Protection, the pesticide Commission for the competent ministry which significantly participates in the process of registering pesticide plant protection products, and the creation of an institution for professional technical support for plant protection. The main activities of the competent Ministry of Agriculture during this period focus on the adoption of international and, in particular, regional phytosanitary standards and their integration into national legislation. In 1994, the Republic of Croatia became a member of the European and Mediterranean plant protection organisation. The same year, the new Plant Protection Act enters into force, on the basis of which the Plant Protection Institute is established in agriculture and forestry. In 1999, we accept the revised text of the International Convention on Plant Protection. For the protection of plants and plant health in 1990 were also very important in the EU expert bodies, primarily the Council of Ministers adopts a yearly dozen new regulations, directives, decisions and regulations governing a single phytosanitary criterion for all Member States. The main objectives of the EU's phytosanitary acquis are to prevent the spread of harmful plant organisms through the transfer of consignments either in the common market by introducing plant passports and registers of participants in plant production and transport on the establishment of uniform criteria for the registration of pesticides or plant protection products at EU level for active substances and at the national level of the pesticide products Member States. By obtaining the candidate status for full EU membership during the period from 2005 to the end of 2009, the Republic of Croatia has installed European phytosanitary regulations in its laws and implementing regulations, and in parallel it has started to apply these rules in practice. Namely, in negotiating Chapter 11. The Republic of Croatia has significantly adapted its legislative area of plant health with the acquis during 2005 and since 2005 two basic rules have been in force. These are the Law on Plant Health and the Law on plant protection products that regulate numerous jobs with a number of accompanying rules, while moving plants and protecting them from harmful organisms. It is only since 2012 that the field of state use of pesticides in our country has been governed by the Regulation establishing an action framework for the achievement of the sustainable use of pesticides carried out in the National Journal 142/2012, in accordance with the provisions of Directive 2009/128 of the European Parliament on the establishment of an action framework for the achievement of the sustainable use of pesticides. What are pesticides and what do we use them for? Despite numerous shortages of pesticides or plant protection products in agricultural production, it is still the most widespread method of suppressing unwanted organisms. It's the world's first... In 1967, he calculated that the damages caused by plant production despite the measures taken to protect the adverse organisms amount to 35% of the value of potential production, and in recent times of the Erka in 1994, it was found that these damages are even greater and are even 42%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Such losses are estimated to be at least twice as high without measures to protect them. Global climate change estimates that a further increase in the harmfulness of the intruders is taking roughly half the production of harvest and harvesting humans, and half the unwanted organisms are caused by therefore plant diseases, harmful organisms of animal origin and weeds. In our country of Maceljski in 1995, he estimated that direct damages from unwanted organisms were 29.2% of the potential and even 41.25% of the production achieved. It is believed that the negative impact of harmful organisms on the quality of agricultural products would increase the calculated damage by 10 to 15%. The most frequently direct measures to contain undesirable and harmful organisms in agricultural production are the use of pesticides or plant protection products. Each pesticide can be more or less toxic to humans, but can also be toxic to domestic animals, game, birds, fish, and bees to a greater or lesser extent. Directive 2009/128 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 October 2009 establishing a Community action framework for the achievement of the sustainable use of pesticides has therefore been adopted at EU level. In accordance with that European regulation, a Regulation establishing an action framework for the achievement of sustainable use of pesticides has been published in the Official Journal of 19 December 2012. This Regulation prescribes the obligation to educate all professional users of distributors and advisers, sellers with their receipt of a ticket by 26 November 2015 after that date, to provide legal purchase of plant protection products. In doing so, they must listen to the basic training module for 15 school hours and pass a written exam with more than 60% positive answers to get a conviction – laid the basis they acquire the right to issue a card. The card is renewed later every 5 years by listening to five school hours of the supplemental module and after-checking the knowledge. Users must use an application device that will have to be regularly inspected and worn by the review sign. By 26 November 2014, all pesticide administration devices produced before 1995 must be checked in the approved test cells. All devices must be checked at least once by 26 November 2016, new devices shall not be required for review for 3 years. After that date, only devices for the application that the authorised cells have a sign of regular examination may be used. After that date, the frequency of the review is once every three years, following the last review. The funds must be stored in the original packaging, separated from food and feed for animals, outside the reach of children, subject to certain conditions of temperature, moisture and light. Where, during or after treatment, the risk or unwanted activity of the means and/or the rest of the means is observed, the competent agricultural inspector shall be informed immediately. However, despite the establishment of such a uniform legal framework at EU level, pesticide residues can still be found in soil, water and the environment in general. Also, residues of pesticides above maximum residue levels can be found in a certain percentage of agricultural products of plant and animal origin. These facts have led to the conclusion that EU legislation governing pesticides does not fully guarantee the safe use of pesticides and does not fully ensure the protection of the environment, human health, plants and animals. As a consequence, the Plant Protection Act was adopted in 2005 and Directive 2009. The Law on plant protection products does not contain all the necessary provisions for the establishment of a system of sustainable use of pesticides and provisions where legal and natural persons do not comply with or violate the provisions of the Regulation establishing an action framework for the achievement of the sustainable use of pesticides from 2012. The protection of plants with reduced pesticide consumption will be implemented by a new law on the application of the principle of integrated plant protection and organic plant production within the meaning of Council Regulation No. 834 of 28 June 2007 on organic production and labelling of organic products. Agricultural family economies must be familiar with and adhere to the most important provisions of the legislation mentioned in order to carry out their basic activity without sanctions in the future. The publication and entry into force of new EU rules is a continuous process that is expected to be further adjusted in the future because European regulations are constantly changing. The accession of the Republic of Croatia to full EU membership no longer captures the deadlines for the publication of EU rules published a few or even ten years ago, but must take a step with the entry into force of the new rules in the Member States, with the appropriate exceptions to the adjustment of application in practice. The SDP will support this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64677	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDSSB club Drazen Djurovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64678	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, MPs and MPs. Very exhaustively, the two predecessors said those aspects that they really are, and they all stand as they were said and all the facts they presented, they presented them very professionally and highly quality, so I will not repeat myself in these aspects that they presented. I'll say something else beyond what I think would be worth mentioning here in this debate. We as a club express regret about the urgency of the procedure because we believe that certain things in this bill will not be acceptable to us, and I believe that in two readings, since this is not something that has to happen urgently in order for it to be time for us to actually agree and change these things. We are aware that a good part of this law is practically prescribed and only transposed from Directive 2009/128 of the European Parliament. And so most of these provisions have been practically transposed into this law under that directive. But there are some things that we have added to this bill ourselves, which we think are not good, that are not useful. So, let me start at the end. In implementing terms, this law will be regulated by the Regulation. We now have one rulebook, a regulation on amendments and additions to the Regulation on the amount of compensation and the way the funds are allocated in the process of registering plant protection products, the assessment of active substances, the authorisation of plant protection products. He was last changed in the third month of last year, and I'm guessing now he's going to be passing a new rule that would fit the provisions of this law. What do we see as a problem? One of the problems is certainly the scope of education provided for by this law that needs to be implemented? We in the Republic of Croatia have currently registered around 192 thousand OPGs. Let us take into account that only one person in this OPG commits them to pass this law if they think to use professionally and we assume that these OPGs exist because they carry out some professional activity of agriculture that 190 thousand people at this time should pass the basic and additional education of passing exams and get a certificate so that they can get pesticides in the intended shops for professional use. So they should become professional users. Let's say there's 150 grand, but maybe in those O.P.G.s where there's more professional users or persons there's going to be a significantly larger number. The minister didn't say what number we think people are going to bring them into that education at all, but I believe that this number should move around 150 grand. The price of the course according to the current price of the Ministry of Agriculture with the passing of exams and the issue of the card stands at a thousand kuna, meaning individual exchange rate. For primary education, supplementary education, exam, basic education 600 kuna, supplementary education 300, passing exams 50, issuing a licence 40, means 990 kuna. I don't know if those prices are gonna stay the way they are now, but I guess they'll stay. By the 150 thousand participants we plan to educate for the professional use of pesticides, this is the order of the total mass of about 150 million kunas that we, as a state, think in a relatively short time from the pocket of our farmers, how much they will pay for that card, for the professional use of pesticides, and to whom these funds will go, those 150 million kunas that these educations will cost. They will go to private schools, professors, persons who will conduct education and who they will not go to will not go to the Croatian state. So, we leave this education to be conducted, the educators will go through the ministry but the implementation of education will actually be conducted by private universities, various institutions, various institutions, various people, only the Republic is not able, for example, through the agricultural advisory service, the agricultural advisory service remains competent only to issue a card. So do we underestimate ourselves so much that we can only create a program and then issue a card afterwards. So that's one thing. The second thing, of course, is the question of the cost of carrying out that education. The lecturers who teach at this time are paid 120 kuna per hour, 45 minutes is a captain. We think that this is a lot and that these prices can be reduced and that these courses should be normised to be cheaper and to be carried out by the agricultural advisory service rather than expensive, to burden farmers and yet, in the end, to end the funds, to have our farmers finance private institutions, institutions in a large mass that now have to carry out a huge number of these courses. So, I wanted to say, and, of course, that's going to be arranged in the follow-up rule that the ministry brings that we have no influence on, and that's why I'm using this opportunity to actually draw attention to this thing because now it's not just about courses that will be conducted for those people who sell, participate in the chain, big, retail or application, but it actually refers to all professional users who now have to go through this basic education. And in this context we think that it is another fact that the additional parafiscal imposition at the very price of the agricultural product as well as any other, is expensive, so a thousand kuna is ultimately the Croatian state leaving it to some private sector to do it all together and the state is actually creating a service and norm instead of it being the one that will, for example, carry out through the agricultural advisory services. Moreover, when it comes to infringements, the regulation itself does not refer to the amounts of infringements, but points out that they should be in accordance with the gravity of the infringements and what is really reasonable. But when a man works on a tractor that has a card that can professionally use pesticides but doesn't have time to leave the tractor and tells the woman, write down on a sheet of paper, go please and buy a kilo of two pesticides someone she'll come to the store and if that lecturer does, then the penalties are next. The minimum sentence for a legal person, for that store is 50 thousand kuna. So, the fine is 50-100 thousand kuna for a legal person, and it will also be the person responsible in the legal person between 3/10 thousand kuna and the final natural person between 2-15. So we have to think a little bit, we have this whole series of laws that happen, we have criminal provisions, and we actually have to think a little bit about the severity of the offense and the amount of fine we prescribe. We believe that the amount of fines is disproportionately high, the expected severity of the offence, whether or not I know of what and that in Article 32a of the Article 33a, the lower amounts of fines should have been provided not at all entering the items, these are simply too high penalties, let's face it, this is not the proportion of the severity of the infringement. We also have in the Republic of Croatia I don't know how many but very large numbers of people who do one job and in life have another hectare, three, two, four orchards. I live in a place like this and practically every other man has a few acres of orchards, what category of users do these people belong to? I suppose they'll be able to enter the category of professional users. I guess because when it comes to this non-professional and amateur category of users they buy more or less the same pesticides already diluted, so the only difference is that these can buy cheaper pesticides that are undiluted and they cost less per litre, and these amateur users they will have to pay more expensive, in fact you are the pesticide only that will be diluted in some amount so he won't have to dilute it. They're not that I don't know what different pesticides are, they're de facto more or less the same products. These are two. Also another item, it's the issue of Internet pesticide sales. We in the Republic of Croatia do not have developed internet pesticide sales and Internet pesticide sales is nothing unusual in Western Europe. The regulation also provides for the possibility of an Internet sale of pesticides. I am not sure that we have made it possible by law to sell pesticides online because we do not forget that we are a market for which someone in the Republic of Croatia would be prohibited from buying pesticides anywhere within the EU and buying it or someone from the EU buying it in the Republic of Croatia. I hope that it is possible or that the provisions of this law will not make it possible. Here's what I just said as a club. We won't agree with this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64679	Thank you. We're moving on to the replicas of this exhibit. The first came from a respected colleague, Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64680	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Djurovic, I don't know if you know it, but in the Vietnamese war, pesticides were used as weapons and in the most brutal way possible for a very simple reason they are very dangerous if they are not used properly. This is the introduction to my replica that motivated your exposure, this last part of your exposure to the price of whether it is necessary to educate people to use pesticides. It is in their interest, it is in the interest of consumers who will consume products tomorrow and assume in general that without strict regulation and without the necessary education in a country that has one of the worst human profiles in agrarian, it could be in such a way as you advocate to use pesticides beyond the gain of the EU, beyond the standards that we are now forced to accept, I simply cannot understand what message this last part of your exposure is. You're talking about the price of 990 kuna, so what you should say is fishermen who spent tens of thousands of kunas for basic education to work on board from exams for the ship's commander to basic security exams and firefights and search and rescue, so you can come up with a figure of tens of thousands of kuna people who actually de facto and deura have exactly the same status in this society, the same opportunities as the owners of family farms. The question of hourly prices is the question of the lecturer's market price. Putting a priority as an exclusive task and responsibility to the Agricultural Advisory Service in this situation is putting extra burden on people who, even if they want to do their job properly, even though the system will force them to do and have something to do besides this. Therefore, prescribing and standardising the way pesticides are used and insisting on the education of personnel is necessary for each responsible country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64681	Reply to the replica of counterpart Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64682	Yes, we may not have understood each other until the end, I am not against the regulation at all, I have read the regulation completely and these provisions of the law are on its trail and I have pointed out only a few things in which I recognize yet certain Croatian specificities. We can also norm everything as defined, but I warn that the Croatian product is really not competitive and we cannot pass laws from day to day that represent additional fiscal pressure on the final product if you will. Whether this fee, whether this imposition, is nothing expensive, but in the end we are constantly burdening us from day to day in this Assembly the price of Croatian product that is finally uncompetitive. And this will also burden him with the price of this course and the price I forgot to mention, meaning also the cost of testing these lamps and jets and tractors and registrations all of this is finally just being translated into the final price of Croatian agricultural or any other product that is becoming less competitive because we are constantly pressing him. And on the other hand, I warned that at this point a huge number of users are entering this system that they have not been before and that it is a pity that the Republic of Croatia does not see an opportunity there to simply do something as a country at a favourable price quickly, effectively using its own resources that it has food from the field from all over the middle come to tell the impulse that the Agricultural Advisory Service has quite the space to do this job.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64683	Followed by the replica of Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64684	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Djurovic, of course, is that in that part of the debate and in those developments and improvements on protection and improvement in this important area, because each one is indeed a very risky area where any incident can be killed, it is undeniable and that in that part we welcome these improvements. But I'm glad that I listened to your debate where you realistically presented the situation and warned about certain circumstances that I spoke about in the earlier debate on education, whether farmers would remain very simply short-sleeved again. You made that clear, you said there are so many and so many thousands of family farms. I'm telling you there's 10 less than that number today. Every day, ten of them go down. And every burden indeed in that sense is hard for them to accept. Their existence is on the verge, they are indeed under difficult circumstances not to go back to what we have said countless times in this high house. And any such effort will be additionally difficult for them. And what happens in these situations? Well, it's not just a problem, so this is one key very important area where it's extremely important. But it's an education in motor saw handling, and then it's tractor handling. Well, it's an education in education. And what's going on? Then our farmers come to us in local self-government, to schools to send offers and finance. Some have the ability to, of course, help, support because we are aware of the situation. Some of course can't. And they're really going to be burdened with this, not everyone's going to be in an equal position, and, of course, if something in this part of the area that you're talking about is not being helped by the state, by the ministry, it means that it's not going to be in an unequal position, it's going to get even worse than it is now, and now we know what it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64685	The replica corresponds to Draž Đurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64686	Yeah, so we won't introduce pesticides to our farmers, they've been using them for decades. So now, we just need to spend one particular education, one part of those who may not get to know each other well enough to get to know each other more. That's all. Therefore, this is not now the introduction of Mars pesticides, they use them and will continue to use them. So I just wanted to say this isn't the only one. And I think this is one chance why not, I'm sure there's some space that maybe it wasn't thought about it enough. It is no destruction but a proposal to find space to actually get through our system that we have these services and perhaps others that we simply as a state show that we can do something ourselves. And not that it all comes down to the abandonment that some private colleges that you say are taking courses from the merciless to the unloved, everything and everything, we're norming as a state, someone's doing it privately and the people are paying everything. And it's not 1,000 kunas so little, it's only supposed to be taken out at one point and something to pay and then again in a couple of years 400 kunas, and then again for this thing and so it's permanent. It's one way of life that we've introduced anyone who tries to deal with private entrepreneurship, in this case agriculture where it's harder to survive. So this is just one warning. I've given similar warnings in all other ways. I simply do not want to participate in any constant pressure on the Croatian product at any level. We must at least take the view that we will reduce parafiscal burdens, then we would not be part of that chain that constantly imposes this society and finally every Croatian product.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64687	Next replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64688	Dear fellow Djurovic, I don't know if you remember when we discussed joining the European Union at the time, we all heard that we now have an opportunity of 500 million people, a large market. You were talking about competitiveness. First of all, we're uncompetitive, I'm talking about agriculture because we're small, we're negligiblely small, and secondly, we're very uneducated right here in this segment. I agree here fully with you when you talked about education about how and who should be educated. And that's why the state wouldn't do it. Secondly, I agree with Mr. Baranovic who says it's very dangerous pesticides are very dangerous means. First of all, Croatian agriculture is very damaging to the environment. It's just an unknowing use of pesticides. And that punishment should be big, that's what they say, too much punishment if you drive drunk, so don't drive drunk. Don't make a mistake, I mean. We always complain that our punishments are too great. Let's act right, so at least that's what doesn't poison the country. Therefore, in my opinion, no punishment is too great. Normally, it's a great punishment to consider that, say, the people who damaged the state's 37 million, and now the Gule Potatoes didn't get one day in prison. That's not what we're gonna say, but that's the state crime, the immodestness, etc. But this, we need nitrogen and phosphorus poisoning water, our water is in danger precisely because of the use of pesticides. And we have to protect that. We must protect the future of our children. And that's not, with me completely agreeing, that we would, but in order to become a competitive peasant, you have to be educated in order to be able to produce.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64689	The reply to the replica Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64690	Yes, counterpart Vuksic, this criminal provision does not refer to the country's poisoning but refers to if person A sells to a B pesticide and has no ticket to complete the course. This does not mean that this person has poisoned the country or that it will poison it in the future because for decades the same person has been using those pesticides according to the instructions on the back of the box without that course that we are about to introduce. ... We agree normally, and I agree with you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64691	And the last replica Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64692	Thank you very much. A colleague Đurovic, so how will the state organise education when there are not enough agencies? We need to start an agency so we can have a place of education. How the agricultural advisory service will organize what you seek when there are only 226 employees. That's impossible. Well, it's easier for them to keep doing what they don't do and let others do what they need to do and get money for it. Well, that's the easiest way to feed a private country. But unfortunately, the Croatian people eat unquality food. We're importing food, and it's the most invaluable in the world, and we're paying the most expensive. We feed instead of feeding a man we kill a man and that's why healthy food is important and it's important to use pesticides. But I'm going to say something in advance that I'm sorry to have to say it here right now. I thought a government official wanted to practically demonstrate the use of pesticides, so he brought in an assistant who dressed up like he was going to do it just doesn't have a protective mask and helmet yet. Mr. Minister, this is the Croatian Parliament and I don't think you should have allowed your assistant to come to the Croatian Parliament because it doesn't fit the code of conduct in the Croatian Parliament, the usual code.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64693	I'm a colleague of Maric's.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64694	That's my opinion, I have the right to say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64695	Wait a minute, you can have your own opinion but you cannot present it in the replica Đurović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64696	It's because this is what it's all about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64697	It's not about this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64698	It concerns the legislator.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64699	It's none of your business. So don't let people laugh at you that you don't know how to read the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64700	Imagine if we all came in here like that and the legislator chews all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64701	So imagine that everyone argues like you, picks up the line and talks about the fifteenth, so where would we come? ... It is the seventy-nineth, not the fifteenth, it has nothing to do with what Djurovic said and this is not at all a replica and your behavior is different from the usual behaviour in the Assembly. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Replication response, co-worker Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64702	I'm just going to refer to the first part, so as far as I'm concerned, I really think we have to, we have one awakening of uncontrollable relations between the state, agencies and the private sector. This isn't any kind of crucial example, this is just a picture of the relationship that we're making. The state is practically benefiting from its responsibility to implement and transfer it in various forms to a private sector, and in this case I believe that people in the Agricultural Advisory Service would be able to carry out these courses without a problem, so that they could make extra money in the afternoon, that the price could be half the price and that it could actually be the state to make better money and that it could actually benefit both states and Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64703	Thank you. The Minister has now come to the floor. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64704	Thank you, dear Vice President. In fact, I had no intention of reporting after the clubs, but at the end of the final word, but since the debate went back in width here, went with a terrible amount of inaccuracy, I won't reevaluate at any moment and say malice, but I am therefore obliged to respond to these few things and to clarify maybe not to go through the replicas again in the wrong direction. The emergency of the procedure, the EC law, I think it's enough for itself to say why it's going through an emergency procedure. We also put one law out as a full implementation of the regulation on which you have found a lot of objections, primarily in this part of the range of price education and potential executioners themselves. When we talk about the scope, it seems to me that exactly as much as it is prescribed even in lower amounts of hours than it should be, and some two have said I will once again confirm that the educational structure of our village, our agricultural producers and our family economies is disastrous. We did one preparation a few weeks ago, presentations with EUROSTAT data, with data that were extremely accurate where 95% of our OPG farmers deal with agricultural production based on the experience of agricultural production. Only 5% have either basic agricultural education in terms of 2,68% and 2, something has higher, higher or higher education. If we compare this and compete with the EU 27 and then we have made further comparisons with the EU 15 old countries where this ratio is educated compared to those that deal experiencedly with 50-50. We are even defeated in relation to the EU 12, so new member states where almost 32.5% is the part of the educational structure compared to those dealing with experience. We have been working together with individual Member States, so we are talking about what our neighbours are, Hungary, Slovenia, Austria, Poland and I can tell you that I can send you this presentation so you can see what our education structure is and why we decided. Not only because de facto and Directive 2009 ordered us to do so but because it is necessary,... with the aim of protecting the environment and nature, but also with the aim of reducing the costs of these same agricultural producers. When we talk about the price of education, if you'd studied a little better then we'd see that we've set up a maximum amount to pay for all this education, we're talking about the maximum amount, which doesn't mean that the game of those bad potential consultants coming or coming from the private sector won't cut that price. And we also prescribing whoever issues the cards, it's the body, it's the institution, it's the advisory service. Have you, somewhere under this law, asked your colleague to consult with his large number of experts, and you said how many there are and the structure of the Agricultural Advisory Service is 99.5% high and up. Will they not be able to apply for an education or..., is it written somewhere in the law? I don't see it. I will tell you that 150 of them already have a solution that they are educated and that they can do lectures, that as an institution, as well as any other institution will only get a solution if there are enough lecturers that will be able to cover certain regions and states. We could ban others from doing that job, and of course we allowed our experts to do counseling or education for what we must do. One more thing you were talking about, you were talking about parafiscal intrusions. I didn't hear you say that it might have been a little commendation to the Ministry of Agriculture that in two years it took off 700 million kuna of parafiscal burdens from the general useful function of the forest, the water contribution to the last package when we took off the 238 million of the remaining parafiscal burdens. One of the parafiscal duties was also a contribution to the Agricultural Chamber of Ten Million or 0.5% for the support paid. It was incorrect when you spoke about the number of those who would be obliged to pass these educations, because if you looked at a little plan you would see that by 26.11.2015 professional users, distributors and consultants who must have a certificate must pass. If we had looked at our data a little bit better, we'd see that we actually have 95,000 to 10,000 of those who are applicants for support in agriculture. They can be considered active farmers or some who are professionals. And if there's more room to sort out the base and get quality data. [[Intruder Stazic: Minister's time.]] Amateurs, amateur question, hobbyists in agriculture. Special product palettes and they will buy in a different way, but not professional means and will not work with funds like so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64705	We have two replicas on this exhibit. First Stephen Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64706	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, I haven't noticed so much inaccuracy. There may be inaccuracies sometimes in our actions, and that's allowed. Of course, there's no more of that institute to correct the incorrect allegations, but maybe I didn't notice that much. God forbid it would be malice. These remarks are all for the purpose of well-meaning, with a desire to point to certain problems. That's what we want to tell you just because you're here today, because you keep saying that the situation in our villages is great in our agriculture. I repeat again here the village is about to break, over. It's just over. You see all these parameters, indicators that talk about the production of milk, meat, all of which, of course, says bad. But the other thing is that my colleague Djurovic and I want to say about how people simply don't have and that they can't finance it. Even today, in your act in the current morning, you said that there would be great funds for these programmes as well, etc. But then whatever it is, it's moving somehow. Now it's going to be considered, so the contest's going to be somewhere at nine months. I want to say, Mr. Minister, if it's going to be in nine months, I'm afraid it doesn't sow, it doesn't sow corn or any of that culture, and it's going to be a difficult circumstance for our farmers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64707	Minister Jakovina answers the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64708	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I guess I'll have to talk slower or louder and talk louder. And today, in response to the question, we said that the first part of the support goes into the next fifteen days of a billion and thirty million, and in the second part of the answer was the funds of the Rural Development Fund, which is based on the projects. And I think I made it very clear that the whole legislation was adopted only on 16/12/2013 after three years of working together on the reform package, the new reform package of the common agricultural policy for the fourteenth, 20th. I'll tell you again. The rural development programme of the Republic of Croatia and my ministry shall send the first of all Member States to the Commission this week. When we talk about correcting the inaccuracy I immediately made... I did not say that they were malicious, but one is our obligation to agree or comply with our legislation with the regulations we quoted, and the other is that we chose in these measures and when we even talked about the level of criminal provisions I can tell you by all these things that you have stated that we are in a third price compared to the penalties in the Republic of Slovenia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we also took great care of the social sensitivity and the state of difficulty in the Croatian village so that we also put the education prices below what is common in other EU countries, and especially in this criminal area, especially in the transitional period. But some things must be done, we must in some way further educate and enable our agricultural producers to use, again and with the aim of costing their production, protective means, or pesticides at real concentrations, in real quantities with the right choices, and thus spend less money and throw unnecessary waste into production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64709	Another replica, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64710	Here, thank you. Therefore, as regards the cost of maintaining these educations, the practice of these courses that were being held so far, the basic education programme 3000 kuna has shown that all those who have so far held those courses have kept maximum permitted prices. You can see that on the web pages of those who advertise courses today for professional users, i.e. for those who have so far had courses that they all had advertised maximum prices. I've looked at a few of those who advertise courses. Because what's that about us? With us, of course, as with the price of gasoline when the state declared the maximum price, it was immediately the price everyone held. No one went below the maximum limit, so he went half that price. That's the way it is with this. So this maximum allowed will actually be the price and there will be no competition. In Požega where I live, given that the criteria for lecturers for this number of modules are very complex, in Požega di I live prepares only one university and it will carry education and so will be in most environments and there will be no special competition, there will be no price reductions, and as far as the number of OPGs is concerned, we have 90 and something, 98000 users of the state incentive, that does not mean that there will not be from one OPG or from one company five or ten professional users who will be educated. He doesn't have to, why would he be one? Should only one know something about the use of pesticides in one OPG, one craft or one company, or maybe everyone who is involved in this should know them if we want to educate them all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64711	Minister Jakovina will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64712	So the intensity in the law is seen, i.e. the OPG's obligation to have a minimum of one that will be trained, which will have a certificate and which will actually lead the entire system of protection on that OPG. If the OPG is so large and has more employees it is likely that it is in the interest of the owner to train as many people as possible to work quality with protective equipment, with pesticides, doing as little cost and has better and quality machines and has fewer losses. At least one if we're talking. It's a little contradictory this fellow you say, now say school. We didn't name it to be, to prescribe the maximum price possible and then name one institution that does it. Then it would be a monopoly. In this way, be assured that you will have competition in the advisory service in Požega. I know that. Here, it's your university but it will certainly be an advisory service that will offer these services and I'm sure there won't be an equal price. So we'll see if the market determines that education service is also lower. I'm sure you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64713	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HNS club, a respected colleague, Ivica Mandic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64714	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. If we were discussing a political topic today, I would allow such free and arbitrary interpretations and views of these problems. What is certainly allowed in this House is that each and the representative has the right to say on behalf of his club, in the name of his own, his own thinking. We work here, we pass a law that is of great importance for the Republic of Croatia, for its citizens, for agricultural production and for the environment. And I'm not experiencing this law for a moment that forced us to do this by the EU. And I consider it a person who has made these professions that so far the situation in the Republic of Croatia has been unauthorized in the ways in which we have used herbicides, pesticides and insecticides. These are all toxics of a very high degree and in not so long ago from family economies, agricultural producers have not had a rare poisoning and intoxication to child poisoning that has come uncontrollably to individual preparations that are dangerous to human health. First of all, as a member and in front of the HNS club, I look at this law that is complex and which in a good way regulates a complete system of protection, use, distribution, control and that the public is present. And that's why I say hello like this. What I would say in the beginning is that I am pleased to accept the name of this law, it is the law on the sustainable use of pesticides. Because intensive agricultural production can no longer be imagined to be competitive, to be quality without the use of pesticides, herbicides and insecticides because new selections and plant species are used to this kind of protection because they are too sensitive and therefore I believe that this name on sustainable use is least harmful. If we open the topic here whether pesticides are as harmful as the topic if we open up medicines if medicines are harmful. There is no universal drug that is not harmful and has no universal herbicide or pesticides that is not harmful. But here as a society, we need to make sure that this harmfulness is as small as possible in the matter of human health, as far as animal health is concerned, about environmental impact. The entry and adoption of this law shall cease to apply laws on plant protection products, NN 70/2005. the year and 25/2009. and 80/2013. A year. The reason why we are making a whole new law is because a large number of articles, more than 70% of articles have been abolished, and the law did not contain all the necessary provisions to establish a system of sustainable use of pesticides. The proposed law on the sustainable use of pesticides fully regulates the system of sustainable use of pesticides and removes existing deficiencies. This new law clearly regulates relations and responsibilities in transport and use of pesticides. What has not been good so far is what I think is good and what is certainly good is that the best prevention in the use of pesticides is certainly a well-educated producer. We have already heard here more than once the qualification structure of family farms which is more than devastating and is one of the reasons why incompetence. If we look at the age structure of family economies in the Republic of Croatia then we see that the family economies under 40 are all about 8% in the Republic of Croatia. This age relationship with the EU is also very bad. What I would say is that the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Agriculture and our family economies have not welcomed unpreparedly this new regulation and this new law that since 2010 family economies have been educated through a guideline of good practice in which family economies have been educated on how pesticides are used, on how to store and remove packaging. What is important in this law is that large responsibilities come from family farms and field advisory services that need to come to a quality level of education in the use of pesticides in a short time. Although in its legal framework, the EU is very strict and very thorough in the conduct and control of pesticides, it has been found that this control is not enough, that food, soil, leads the environment that pesticide residues are found above maximum levels, which I say is not good because essentially these pesticides are coming back to humans, to animals in such a way, and we are poisoning ourselves in one way. For these reasons, an EU-wide strategy on the sustainable use of pesticides has been adopted at EU level in 2002, setting up a series of measures to achieve a general objective, reducing the risk to the environment, health, human and animal. The old laws of pesticides in the Republic of Croatia have made available to every person independently of his professional preparation, his knowledge and his age. It was important to have money and you can buy whatever product you want. This opens up the possibility that an unknown person can have such a poison, especially these poisons, pesticides that wear t plus, so you put it in the riverbed, you made an ecocid, you destroyed the environment, you destroyed everything. So who's responsible for it? Well, among other things, the one who sold it. With the way in which the control system is established, it is a phytosanitary information system, the Ministry will know at any moment who bought which preparation and can be a clue when finding and polluting and endangering the environment and the issue of water. What is also important is that the education programme has so far covered only one part of retail consultants and now this education is being passed on to those users themselves. What the new law introduces, precisely introduces the conditions, ways, distribution and sale of pesticides, regular examination of pesticides, it is regulated in Article three, then electronic records, phytosanitary information system. Professional institutions with professional tasks of implementing this law have also been established. Also, this law, which has not been regulated so far, is adopted through a special procedure of use and use of pesticides by air treatment. Here we have the possibility especially of us coming from Osijek-Baranja County where in the rainy years we have the most mosquitoes so far these have been special procedures and almost impossible to use aviation in treating and protecting citizens from mosquitoes and here by administrative act the ministry and minister will be able to issue a warrant with special large mosquito loads to perform and report treatment. I think it's good, but it's safe here, given the pesticides expert commission, to take care of those pesticides where the karenca is as small as possible. What is also important is that the Ministry of Agriculture collects data and risk monitoring and implements a national action plan to achieve in the country of use of pesticides. Administrative oversight of the implementation of this law shall be carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture and the inspection report shall be carried out by the Agricultural Inspectorate, who shall be with the Ministry of Agriculture. The aim of this law is also to achieve sustainable use of pesticides, reduce risks and negative effects from the use of pesticides in a way that ensures a high level of protection and health for humans, animals and the protection of the environment and the preservation of biodiversity by introducing an obligation to apply the fundamental principles of integrated plant protection to combat harmful organisms. Also non-chemical plant protection measures to achieve sustainable and competitive agricultural production. What is also important in this law that the Ministry will promote all plant protection measures with reduced use of pesticides. Promotion of acceptable pesticides that are least toxic. What is important in this law is that every family economy, every user will have recommendations and information on the reporting forecast jobs and publicly available pesticide users at regional level, on the website of the Advisory Service and the Croatian Centre for Agriculture and Food, so that the family economy will at all times be able to obtain information about which pesticides, insecticides, herbicides and which are best for use. The Croatian People's Party will accept for the satisfaction of this law and these measures adopted by this law will improve quality and introduce more order. What I would say in the end is that this project, carried out by the Minister of Agriculture Mr. Jakovina in agreement with the Countys on the transfer of knowledge and that the issue of education is being passed on to the European Funds, I think it is a good project and in such a way our family economies could get a better and more competitive price. In this end, I would say that here we must take care of environmental protection, protection, human and animal health, and in such a way that if we implement this law, I think we will all be satisfied. Normally, in the market economy, no one can say what the price will be. I believe that it will be the price that is most favourable and in this law is precisely defined by those institutions in the Croatian society that can educate controllers, these are agricultural colleges in Zagreb, Osijek, the Institute and others. The Croatian People's Party will accept this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64715	Thank you. We have a reported replica of Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64716	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Mandic, I noticed your quote where you said you wouldn't allow this kind of discussion. Here in this House of Highs, you are neither you nor I specified that we allow, let us do the Rules of Procedure, so that we sometimes comment less, sometimes more successfully certain things, and also your own discussion when you speak and compare herbicides and medicines as harmful. I want to tell you, herbicides are harmful to you for health, and medicines are useful, they have certain side effects that you have heard in those ads should be reported either to a doctor or a pharmacist. So that's the thing. We welcome education anyway, we said it, but we warn of circumstances where our farmers are in difficult circumstances and we manage. I am proud that in our unit of local self-government we support every such intention, co-finance and educate and train, of course in cooperation and with universities. But what you were saying about the age structure of our farmers, that's right, unfortunately. But in recent years, there have been a number of young people, and a large number of defenders who have decided on agricultural production, but unfortunately in these circumstances what happened to them these two years have been broken and many have failed. There's a problem, we had a lot of potential to develop that production, to change that structure, but now we're where we are, here we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64717	The replica corresponds to Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64718	Here, thank you very much. Well, it's interesting when fellow Milinkovic says drugs are harmful, and pesticides are poisons. Yeah, it's just a matter of doses. If you do, if you take any medicine...... And so are you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You didn't have the same formulation for drugs and pesticides. [[Intruder Stazic: Good, good.]] Unless the dose is quality and the best medicine is harmful and the best pesticide is poison. You were saying here are harmful, and pesticides are poisons. What I would say about family farms, we can say that we can be satisfied with tradition and with the culture of family economies and that they have brought something. But it is an obligation for all of us, the whole society to ask that these people who love this job, to give them tools to be better and better because we have good foundations. They have love for the earth and for life and for everything, and to that we upgrade this system.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64719	Now we have an individual discussion of Mirale Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64720	Thank you, Vice President. So at the very beginning of this debate, I would like to remind you all that the modern movement of environmental protection began with the book Silence Spring, namely the silent spring of American scientists and activists Rachel Carson, which was published in 1962. This book led to a ban on DDT, unfortunately after Rachel Carson died, and the establishment of an American Environmental Protection Agency. Today 52 years after the publication of this book, we are still poisoning the environment with excessive quantities, extremely harmful agrochemicals, and therefore I hope that this law will indeed live in practice and thus show that Albert Einstein was wrong when he said "only the universe and human stupidity are boundless, I am not sure about the universe". I therefore welcome this proposal for a law, i.e. the decision to further enhance the safety and protection of plants, humans and animals by adopting this law aimed at correcting the lack of a valid Plant Protection Act and seeking to comply with European directives. With this law we are located somewhere in the middle of a job or in the middle of a road between conventional use of plant protection products, i.e. pesticides and much stricter uses that would lead to one day on an ecological basis, hopefully as soon as possible until the complete exclusion of the use of chemical resources in agriculture. I believe that this proposal mainly covers areas that need to be taken into account when considering the sustainable use of pesticides, and by carefully studying the information provided by interested public, I am pleased that some concrete opinions and suggestions have been taken into account, i.e. they have been accepted. The education or education needed by pesticide managers is certainly one of the main news that is of course necessary as well as the specific control of all pesticide managers, so that in Croatia we will no longer allow toxic plant protection products to be used, or can be obtained without the necessary certificates, permits, IDs, or only with money being presented and money being given. However, a provision relating to education of the general public, near which pesticides will be used, should be introduced into the law as well as in the Education Regulation. In addition to the constant emphasis that pesticides will be used in a way that will at least endanger the protection and health of humans and animals, it is not mentioned or elaborated on what rights of the inhabitants whose pesticides are used nearby, as well as the procedure in the event of their adverse impact on their health. There was also controversy over whether pesticides could be used from the air. I commend his ban, although I believe that Article 2(2) of Article 16 governing this application should be more defined. The Regulation will lay down specific cases in which air use may be authorised, but the law should set out a purpose for which such application may be authorised. Article 26 concerning fees and costs, except for the Regulation to be adopted subsequently, should establish at least an indicative amount of costs for education, control of machinery and their review, in particular for the reasons that those costs are borne by legal and natural persons or potential pesticide managers. In particular, it would benefit those who have a pesticide treatment permit and must decide whether to attend education or to attend education or to prepare themselves for an exam on their own whose condition is to continue their work, and given the financial situation in the country, information on each cost should be given first of all. In general, I repeat that the areas needed for the process of the need for integrated plant protection are existing even though these areas are less developed and too general. I believe that it would be easier to inform and better organise the job itself if most of the relevant things were in one place and if all the articles in this bill were arranged as for example in Article 7 relating to cards. The measures, alternative procedures or techniques of plant protection should be laid down in law in order to reduce pesticide dependence. This way we still have a rather vague distance in the distinction between the traditional use of chemical substances in pesticides. Integrated plant protection is a good start on the way to integrated agricultural production, which is the obligation of all EU member states, but does not necessarily include direct entry into the integrated system of production. I must admit that I was surprised when I read in the table of consultation with the interested public that the Ministry of Agriculture refused to comment or a proposal from the Faculty of Agriculture in Zagreb which was proposed to define precisely the concept of pesticide in the law. In Article 3. which gives reasons for the terms and terms used in the law, no specific definition of pesticides whose sustainable use is subject to this law is already a dry and bureaucratic provision called for by the EU rules of Parliament which define the terms pesticides and biocides. The law itself deals mostly with the necessity of better education and informing users about the use of pesticides, so I believe that the logic of things would require that the ministry not to complicate by calling on the provisions of the regulation but simply to rewrite the definition of the regulation into the very text of the law. I'm not sure that anyone who reads this law, nor should those whose law is primarily intended for pesticides, and which all agrochemicals fall into pesticides, and I don't think it should be so hard to list in pesticides that they include amongst other algebras or agents for the control of algae, auticides for birds, acaricides for the prevention of harmful mantles, arboricides for the prevention of lube growth, bactericides for the control of bacteria, fungicides for the prevention of fungicides, caricides for the prevention of weeds, insecticides for the control of harmful insects, molecules for the control of snails, non-tocicides for the prevention of harmful forms, storkicides for the control of harmful rodents and viricides for the control of viruses. By the weakness of this bill, I consider it an extremely large number of sublegal regulations, by the wording of the rules. If I have counted them well, even 18 or 18 regulations, which the Ministry of Agriculture shall be bound to bring within one year of the date of entry into force of this law. It is known in terms of speed and efficiency in Croatia, regulations and rules, guidance and the like. Given the extremely large number of these sublaws, I doubt all these regulations will be passed within the time limit. I also believe that the law should have been laid down in the section relating to information to the public and inspection, the content of the declaration, the label on pesticides with accurate data on the means of use and warnings and the punishment of those who place incorrect, insufficient or insufficient information on declarations. Article 27 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 provides that the costs of implementing the programme of post-registration control of plant protection products referred to in Article 68 of the basic Regulation are to be financed from the state budget. but it would be good if the legislator would define exactly what post-registration control of pesticides means. Without a doubt, education and quality information of users and the general public on the sustainable use of pesticides is crucial in terms of protecting human and animal health and the environment. It is hard to believe that farmers could overuse these extremely dangerous chemicals, which are expensive, but unfortunately I get a lot of information from the field, it is unfortunately very often. The pesticides are not cost-effective, and they are rarely used in the opposite direction, so they are used before the rain, washed and thrown back on agricultural surfaces. The results are malignancies of pesticide users, excessive pesticides in produced food, mutagenic changes in the next generations, soil drying and contamination of groundwater and groundwater. In that sense, the control of the implementation of this law will be crucial and I hope that the Agricultural Inspection will be up to this task.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64721	The reply to this presentation was reported by Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64722	Dear colleagues, Holly, you have said one sentence, that you hope for the near exclusion of chemical resources in agriculture. However, it will be very difficult to achieve this because this industry that produces is so powerful that what you would want or what I would want and many others is actually pure utopia. Interest is much stronger than people’s health, you know that on many other examples. In Zagreb there are healthy food stores with healthy agricultural products. In those shops, that food sells very well. Near where I live, there's a store like this that sells all the goods by the afternoon. In order to become a country producing this food, this law should be even more rigorous, even greater penalties, and the country should oppose many and EU regulations, but probably not. There was some statistics we always raise our hands for as well as here in the Parliament when the European law is then we all have to raise our hands for so I said in my club that I no longer raise my hand for because we are part of the EU, and then it is best that we all agree together that we will be in everything. People's health comes first and we can be a competitive country and especially because it's been abandoned for 20 years, we have half a deserted country in Croatia that's not threatened by pesticides, but that should be the government's commitment. This should be a firm policy, this should be adopted strategy which Croatia wants in agriculture. Unfortunately, we don't have that. And I hope that some reason will prevail, but I say, the interest of people who have a lot of money and a lot of power far beyond our wishes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64723	The replica matches Mirel Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64724	Well, I'm crazy optimistic, so I believe anything can be done if you want to, but you have to want it first. And the fact is, it's always the beginning of all will, the political will, the personal will, someone's will to start something and change something. You mentioned it in your replica of these healthy food stores. Unfortunately, most of these healthy food stores offer products that are not produced in Croatia, but are brought to Croatia from Japan, from very remote countries of the world, with which the positive effect on the environment when all transport costs are included is actually analizing. And it is very sad actually that Croatia has all sorts of 2% of the share of organic farming in the total agricultural production, given the fact that Croatia really has a very great advantage of doing something in this area. You mentioned the need to adopt a strategy for the development of agriculture, I agree. And I believe that an extremely important part of this strategy for the development of agriculture must be integrated agriculture and must be sustainable agriculture, it must be organic and organic agriculture. Croatia has potentials, there is plenty to say in this way the abandoned agricultural areas that can be brought into operation precisely for these purposes. But in order to do such a thing other than the strategy, it is also necessary to bring a map of Croatia's agriculture where this approach will not start planning because we cannot have developed agriculture with such an unplanned approach. We need to know exactly which cultures where we want to produce and we need to bring some other measures, and that is that we are going through this policy implementation Tell those users who rent certain areas that they have to process it exactly in an integrated way or in a sustainable or more ecological or organic way. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64725	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this bill. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64726	We move to the Final Proposal for a law on the sustainable use of pesticides, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 567. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I ask Minister Tihomir Jakovina to plead for the amendments. Amendment 1 to Article 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64727	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64728	Amendment 2 to Article 30
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64729	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64730	3rd to Articles 32 and 33.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64731	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64732	Article 34(4)
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64733	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64734	I find that they have become an integral part of the text of the law. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final text of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that with 101 votes for and 5 abstentions, the Law on the Sustainable Use of pesticides in the text has been adopted, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64735	In accordance with the agreement of the clubs, we will now conduct a united debate on legal proposals that are in our agenda from point 3 to point 20, including point 20. 3. Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Official Controls, which shall be implemented in accordance with the rules on food, feed for animals, animal health and welfare, with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 546; 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law implementing the Regulation of the European Union on the Protection of Animals, with the Final Proposal for a Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 569; 5. Proposal for a law amending the Food Act, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 545; 6. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Marine Fisheries, with the Final Proposal for a Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 548; 7. Proposal for a law amending the Law on freshwater fisheries, with the Final Proposal for the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 550; 8. Proposal for a Law amending the Water Act, with the Final Bill, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 553; 9. Proposal for a law amending the Law on protected designations of origin, protected geographical indications and guaranteed by traditional specialties of agricultural and food products, with the Final Proposal for Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 568; 10. Proposal for a law amending the Food Information Act, with the Final Proposal for a Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 566; 11. Proposal for a Law amending the Seed Act, fruit material and the recognition of agricultural plant varieties, with the Final Proposal for the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 552; 12. Proposal for a law amending the Law on fertilisers and soil enhancers, with the Final Proposal for Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 549; 13. Proposal for a law amending the Wine Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 551; 14. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on cattle farming, with the Final Proposal for the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 565; 15. Proposal for a law amending the Act on the Common Organisation of the Markets in Agricultural Products and specific measures and rules relating to the market in agricultural products, with the Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 562; 16. Proposal for a law amending the Law implementing Council Regulation (EC) No 834/2007 on organic production and labelling of organic products, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 561; 17. Proposal for a law amending the law on tobacco, with a final bill, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 547; 18. Proposal for a law amending the Act on specific conditions for the placing of flour on the market, with the Final Proposal for the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 570; 19. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on forest reproductive material, with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 564; 20. Proposal for a law amending the Hunting Act, with the Final Bill, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 563; We are doing this because the subject is exactly the same after the abolition of the State Inspectorate needs to be made changes in all these laws. The proposer of all these laws is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received proposals from these acts. And in accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate on these legislative proposals was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. You received the reports at the session. I ask if the proposal's representative would like to further explain the proposal. Yeah. Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64736	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. At the 117th session held on 26 September 2013, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted guidelines for economic and fiscal policy for the period 2014-2016. We've also taken measures to reduce the deficit. One of the measures envisaged is the transformation of the State Inspectorate. In order to implement the transformation measure of the State Inspectorate and in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Designation and Fraction of the Ministry and of the other central authorities of the State Administration "National Journal, No. 148/2013.", it was necessary to amend 18 laws from the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture. On today's agenda of the Croatian Parliament there are therefore all 18 final proposals. And I thank you for the opportunity to unite them in the opening but also in the debate. In fact, these changes, too, change the competence to carry out operations that have so far been within the scope of the work of the State Inspectorate's economic inspectorate. In the largest number of amendments, i.e. 13 of the agricultural inspection law, the Ministry of Agriculture will assume the responsibility and inspection tasks of the State Inspectorate's economic inspection, which relate to inspection controls in transport, i.e. retailing, primarily in the field of food and food quality, the regulation of the agricultural market, organic products, wine and strong alcoholic beverages and fisheries. It is about amending the following laws: the Law on official controls carried out in accordance with the rules on food, feed for animals, animal health and animal welfare. Furthermore, the Food Act, the Law on Marine Fisheries, the Act on freshwater fisheries, the Law on protected designations of origin, protected geographical indications and guaranteed by traditional specialties of agricultural and food products. Furthermore, the Law on Information for Consumers on Food, then the Law on Seeds, Fruit Material and the Recognition of Agricultural Plant Varieties, the Law on fertilisers and soil enhancers, the Law on Wine, the Law on cattle farming, the Law on the Common Organisation of the Markets for Agricultural Products and the Specific Measures and Rules relating to the Market for Agricultural Products. 12. is the Law implementing Council Regulation (EC) No 479/2009. 834/2007 on organic production and labelling of organic products. And the 13th law is the Law on special conditions for placing flour on the market. It should be noted that according to the current jurisdiction of the agricultural inspection, agricultural inspection, livestock inspection, wine inspection, or wine inspection and food quality inspection, and the fisheries inspection of this ministry carried out inspections in the first degree in the field of primary agricultural production, production and transfer of food and food and fisheries, while the economic inspection carried out controls in retail or on the market, which would say that the inspections were not in fact able to determine the traceability of the fields, farms, borders, to the final consumer, but only to retail. By taking over inspections carried out until recently by the Economic Inspectorate of the State Inspectorate by an inspection in agriculture and the Fisheries Inspectorate, inspection operations involving, in nature, one whole within the Ministry of Agriculture will be united. In this way, it will certainly increase the effectiveness and effectiveness of the conduct of the surveillance in question, thereby contributing to a more rational use of budgetary resources. Amendments to the four laws and to the Law implementing the Regulation of the European Union on the protection of animals, the Law on tobacco, the Law on forest reproductive material and the Hunting Law will be subject to inspections by the Ministry of Finance which will assume the current jurisdiction and become the Economic Inspectorate of the State Inspectorate relating to market inspections. Furthermore, the amendments to the Water Act to the current jurisdiction and tasks of the Economic Inspectorate of the State Inspectorate will be taken over by the economic inspectors in the area of water prices, access to municipal water buildings and general and technical conditions and delivery of water services. In view of the suspension of the State Inspectorate from 1 January 2014, and in order to regulate the implementation of inspection controls on the application of 18 laws for which it is necessary to adopt the laws in question by emergency procedure. In particular, by avoiding the occurrence of legal gaps, a particularly justified reason for the adoption of these laws by emergency procedure. For those reasons, it is necessary to ensure that the provisions on the entry into force of this law are applied quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64737	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourist-Party of Work, a colleague, Branko Vukšić, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64738	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'm talking about 18 laws for the first time, and it won't be very long. What we're proposing now is what we've already had, so before the State Inspectorate, we had inspectors in the ministries. Just now, Minister Jakovina said it would be effective, efficient, cheaper, better, almost ideal. What about this proposal? Let's talk about the practice of the past, what has been the practice so far, and whether the State Inspectorate has justified its role and whether it has done the job properly and whether what this Government is doing now is hasty. We are known to slave in forms, not content. We organize, reorganize, break, set up, and don't wonder what's in all that content, if we're doing all right. Every system is good, no matter how badly organized it looks if it's run by good people, if it's done by professional people, working and fair people. If you came to any store, to the butcher shop, to the florist, to any restaurant, and if you complained about a favor and said you'd call the inspection, the waiters' bosses are about to die of laughter because that inspection will come to God asking you when. Any, the book of appeals is a book of mourning about the lack of inspection. The inspectors will not punish irregularities in large systems, let's just say in one of Todoric's stores, God forbid the inspector dares to beg with his nose inside. When we were in the building where I live looking for the inspector's help at the State Inspectorate, a lady had 17 cats, and there were cats at risk and people, for six months we were looking for the inspector, after six months the inspector came in and I won't tell you what condition and we didn't do anything, we had to take care of that problem ourselves. Only who he is, Dumovec, has helped us with that. The inspector wasn't able to, he was so drunk, he couldn't talk. These are all my experiences with the inspectors, so when I asked for any service of the inspector I could never get. If we were to do things by law and if the inspector were to do his job, we could shut down all the telecommunications companies because what the consumers are experiencing, I'm not going to mention now any telecommunications network, that's something scary. I could never get any inspector, I couldn't, mostly I got answers call in seven days, call tomorrow, no authorities, no emails are answered. So whether it was supposed to do what the government is doing today, I'm not sure and I don't know the answer to that. But what we have now, after the first one was to be processed, are inspections in the ministries. It's a mess. You were probably reading in the media when the press called and asked for an inspector at the ministry responsible for individual inspectorates. They told them we had no idea about it. Be careful, and 1.1. we should have started to function as a legal state in that segment. Is something gonna fix up? From what it's now on, nothing's gonna get better. Maybe we've made more of a mess than she was before at the State Inspectorate. The livestock and agricultural inspection at the Ministry of Agriculture will solve cases in these 18 laws, so I would ask the minister to say which way, which people, how that no one in the Ministry of Agriculture knows there are those inspections. How come people wander from phone to phone? We'll probably have an argument tomorrow in the other part. It's that construction part where there's just as much chaos. And how does the Ministry of Agriculture really think about making inspections more effective, more efficient and cheaper. What's that for? It's some Batmans who will do it and who will organize it, who will oversee it, who will answer for it. Who's responsible for chaos, for the present chaos? Who's responsible for the fact that when you call the departments to tell you in the ministry, we don't know. And in 1.1 not to be known, but to act in 1.1, so probably this, as the minister said, I will paraphrase it by a random law and a random measure taken. Because the way the implementation of the State Inspectorate's disbandment and the accession of inspectors of individual ministries has certainly not been promising. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64739	Thank you. We have a line of colleagues from Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64740	Thank you very much. Comrade Vuksic, you said in your debate that this was chaos. This is a programmed chaos, unfortunately because something that worked as one whole independent has now fallen under the hat of several ministries and several ministers. This is what politics obviously wanted to achieve, and then there are stories about rationalization, about savings, about fighting deficits, etc. etc. And what happened at the beginning of this year happens. I can't even imagine a minister who, let's say, is going to be an inspector at the Ministry of Finance who would have the strength to enter a hotel down here now in Korčula, which is today being spoken of by the Prime Minister in Veli Luka. Who's gonna answer there? Who's going to go over there and call him and bring in a report from the Minister of Finance. Well, he's changed the second day if he writes something that's wrong. That hasn't been possible so far. We remember the first one, or I mean that state inspector during HDZ's rule, he was removed because he was illegally building, and he was the first man of the State Inspectorate. Changed! Who here will be responsible for the State Inspector's mistakes? Will the minister who's his boss be upstairs now? When they make a mistake in their findings, in their inspectorial actions. Who's going to make a mistake? Who's going to answer? Minister? Will he resign then. Of course not. This is putting the inspectorate under the hat of politics, and we have no analysis of why it was done and why it didn't work in a system like this. It's just pure politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64741	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64742	Dear fellow Boris, yes, that independence, untouchableness, had been lost if it were untouchable. I was talking about experiences during the State Inspectorate that didn't work, but this argument that you made is certainly one of the stronger arguments because I agree who will be able to oppose Linic's assistant. Who's gonna dare? In fact, that's what the priors are going to say, we're not going to go to them, because we're going to be punished because Mr. Linic is going to be angry with us, and each of the ministers has a friend of their own to please. Therefore, this authority is not immune to nepotism. This power we saw wasn't immune to irregularities. Therefore, what is now done except as, I don't know if it's programmed or unprogrammed chaos, chaos is. It doesn't give hope that it'll be better than it was before. If 1.1 had started to work, and 1.1 knew what to want, and if we had seen the results in the last 20 days, then we would have said it was starting to work, something is changing. But nothing changes. If it will be, again it will take two years to be the test rabbits and eventually they will say sorry we did wrong. In fact, you won't say it either, because there won't be a chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64743	Minister of Agriculture Tihomir Jakovina called for the word.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64744	Thank you, dear Vice President. Again, I had the intention of actually uniting the story as a final, but in order not to go in replicas again in the wrong direction then I took the opportunity to report now and try to further explain the whole situation or ask you when you're talking. Today we have these 18 laws and you're talking about my ministry and my inspections because this is for finance and for the rest I'm not quantified enough to speak for other ministers. But if we're talking about this, dear colleague Vuksic, it seems to me in your discussion outside the club that you have indicated the way and the quality of the work of state inspectors in the State Inspectorate so far. If on the most banal things, you've waited six months for calls, then if they work with someone who's come in an alcoholic state and something like that. In this reform, in taking over part of the economic inspector at the Ministry of Agriculture, we are talking about 40 workers who have come into our system. Our system is fully prepared. The inspections I've given you have worked both so far and in the Ministry of Agriculture have not been a problem with the blockade and the way and the dysfunction. What it says in the daily press is that they called, I'd like to be argued. I read in the daily press and not in 24 hours or some newspapers that do not have or even in business that Brussels has 4 times rejected our rural development programme and that we will not withdraw 332m euros and then the whole media hack has gone on this no matter what the announcements, regardless of the denials we sent from the Ministry of Agriculture. In the Ministry of Agriculture on the website was marked, fellow inspectors were doing their job, persons who were contacting for providing potential users with information were at their jobs and giving information. We didn't even have a problem with the amendments we're going to have tomorrow at the government and we have to propose because we actually sent all 18 laws in time into the procedure and the government and here and we were expecting and prepared for the application of the law from 1.01.2014. When you talk about work independence, all inspectors are in accordance with the law in independent work and responsible for law enforcement and legal inspection. If there were any objections to their work, then there is the Board of Appeals. That doesn't solve the minister. The minister must only be sure that the law is implemented and that the whole system is functioning properly. The 40 inspectors who came to us are not a special body, they're not doing any special jobs, they're just allowing the whole system to work properly. Because look, so far we've listed the inspections we've had, they've controlled primary production, they've controlled the farm, they've controlled the field, they've controlled that part of the production if we're talking about livestock... To the slaughterhouse. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We weren't in a situation of boredom, it was done by the inspectors of the State Inspectorate who controlled the retail. I'm often well-lived here and from you that we're not doing enough control on the shelves, in retail places, and we couldn't do that because the system wasn't surrounded by inspection controls. We've got him now, and that's why we'll be more effective. It's not a great situation, and I didn't say everything is fantastic and wonderful, but we're fixing the system to be more effective in this part of the control that's extremely important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64745	We've got two lines reported. First Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64746	Dear Ministers, look, the State Inspectorate has been suspended. You say you're not in charge and no one says you're in charge of the Ministry of Finance or any other ministry or the Ministry of Economy. We are now talking about a package where current inspectors from the State Inspectorate are divided into different ministries. Citizens don't need the structure of the state, they need one phone. Well, I'm only suggesting. Until then, they had a phone called the State Inspectorate and then referred them to certain inspectors. Now imagine a few departments sending you on the phone. You were ever an ordinary citizen of the Republic of Croatia and when you were sent from the counter to the counter, from the phone to the phone and no one was in charge. Well, you can't get information for a month on who's in charge of your case. You're idealizing the thing because you're probably moving among the officers who say everything is fantastic, everything's fine. Well, not everything fantastic, you've even admitted yourself that everything isn't fantastic. Does anyone think there's only one number at the level of the inspectors who are divided into different ministries? And he calls and then the one who sits by that phone says yeah, that's the Department of Agriculture now I'm going to connect with the inspector responsible for that and that. It's not expensive, it doesn't require any extra money. But this isn't good. It takes two years to spy, and then some other government will come and say no, we're not going to divide all the inspectors into three groups now. In southern Croatia, northern Croatia and central Croatia. Why wouldn't he? As Prime Minister Milanovic says, we won the elections, we have the right to do whatever we want.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64747	The minister is responding to the replica. Here you go, Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64748	Dear colleague Vuksic said one phone and one application from the State Inspectorate. And you just said six months ago that you've been trying to get on that same phone to report irregularities in your building. My ministry has reported contacts and e-mails and phones to which any citizen can apply. A reminder only, under the Administrative Procedure Act, of any inspection to report an subject seeking inspection, although not their jurisdiction they are obliged to forward to the inspection for the purpose of that supervision. So I don't see why it would be problematic for you to allow the Ministry's inspection services to have the traceability of the controls, again I'll say from the fields, the sea, the farms, the border to the end-user. In this way we created through the system that we had, which was ineffective, which we can make... and the number of analyses that state inspectors were doing according to certain laws for which they were obliged, and he was very small, and they were authorized by law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 18 laws, because I'm changing them. Be assured that this way where we have the closed system control will be better. How much better and more efficient the system depends on all of us who lead, not on having our own whims that we will fulfill in one way or another than to make the system more efficient. And again with what and for whose benefit? For the benefit of citizens who need to have a better service. At least all the inspections that are tied up and working in my ministry will certainly be better and more effective in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64749	And another replica, Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64750	Thank you very much. Minister Jakovina, nor can they be justified by the abolition of the state inspectorate, can possibly be found for political reasons but the reasons objective and rational cannot be found at all. If you say you didn't have a problem with the state inspectorate in the agriculture area. If there wasn't a problem then what would be better now. It can't get any better. If there were problems with the state inspectorate and there were problems, then the system could be improved. The government itself praised the work of the state inspectorate. There are numerous interviews in public. Just two, three months ago, the state inspector gave an interview where she praised and praised for her work. If it's not good the state inspectorate worked and there are only possible reasons for the change if it's not possible then no one's been removed from the state's inspectorate because of the poor work, so these same people who work will work now. There's something changing that doesn't know why they're changing. There is not at all an analysis that preceded changes to such terrible changes, it's not just formal changes. Well, it could happen that 20 inspections from 20 different locations come into the same company. No hierarchy. There's no responsibility. The State Inspectorate as a supervisory supervisory authority should be an independent special institution and supplement what should be developed. This is the quality of work cannot be improved at all because it can only divorce the situation and divorce responsibility and at least we could have replaced the Chief State Inspector before, and the Chief State Inspector could have replaced his chiefs, and now who will be replaced by whom. Who will be replaced by the Minister for irresponsibility?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64751	Time. To the reply of Minister Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64752	I will repeat once again the Ministry of Agriculture in this redistribution takes over 40 inspectors, inspectors we have chosen on the basis of professional training, education but mostly parts of the surveillance work that only these people have done will work under these laws and will do inspection checks and will do all that which inspectors need to do in the traceability of food as they work on the quality of food or in the departments in which they are placed but no longer controlled by residence fees, will no longer do that part of the working legislation that they have done and that will be done by inspectors who have moved to counterpart Miranda. We're talking about people who were in the system, who were working but who were multipractice who were usually a very large spectrum of controls that worked for the state inspectorate. They will work with us specializedly, work in accordance with the education they have and will cover the laws they write about and which they must control about this agriculture ministry. I don't see a job increase or an increase in costs. However, they are regionally based on regional offices placed in existing offices and added to teams that they are and we will reduce, we will certainly reduce transport costs and all other things, not the question of the director or the chief. That can change. You need to change the system to make the controls more effective this way. I'm going to say one more time what's connected to the Department of Agriculture's inspection surveillance will certainly be much more effective.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64753	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, a colleague, Mario Moharic, signed up.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64754	Thank you, Vice-President, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, we have already heard that the basis for the 2014-2016 economic and fiscal policy guidelines was adopted at the end of September and the measures to reduce deficits and, within that framework, a transformation of the state inspectorate was envisaged. It reiterates some thesis on inspections in the sense that the state inspectors were independent, independent, and now in the ministries they would be less independent or independent, so for them only a few information. Therefore, in addition to the State Inspectorate in other areas of inspection, the departments and other central authorities of the state administration, each in its own part. And what is important for this debate is to say that more than 40 inspections have been set up in the Republic of Croatia by the majority of which operate within those central authorities of the state administration responsible for the administrative area of the Ministry's jurisdiction while only 6 inspections carried out in the State Inspectorate have been established in the administrative areas of the responsibility of other central authorities of the state administration. In this way, in two different models of carrying out inspection operations, the establishment of an unequal system and the authorities of the state administration have been placed in an unequal position in the performance of the operations of their part-round. As the exercise of inspection supervision is a basic instrument of proper application of the law and also ensures direct monitoring of the situation in a particular administrative area of the necessary inspection tasks and other administrative tasks in the same administrative area to be united in the same body of the state administration. The following proposed a series of amendments to the legal rules in the administrative areas of the Ministry of Agriculture, so I will in turn. The laws amending the Law on official controls carried out in accordance with the rules on food, feed, animal health and animal welfare shall be adopted because of the abolition of the State Inspectorate and the takeover of inspection operations relating to quality standards and labelling of food and feed by the Ministry of Agriculture. In place of the State Inspectorate’s economic inspectors, this law proposes that official controls operations relating to quality standards, labelling of food and food for animals are carried out by the Food Quality Inspectorate, the Agricultural, or the stock inspection. Proposal for a law amending the Food Act. The responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture for Inspectives relating to health care, hygiene, food and food safety, quality standards, specific food and food quality codes, labelling, advertising, presentation or information of food consumers is prescribed. In order to regulate inspection operations relating to the transport of fish and marine organisms by the Ministry of Agriculture, the tasks of the State Inspectorate’s economic inspectors will be carried out by fishing inspectors. In the next quarter of 2014, due to changes to EU Common Fisheries Policy legislation in the process will be the adoption of a new Maritime Fisheries Act. In order to regulate inspection operations relating to the transport of fish and other freshwater organisms by the Ministry of Agriculture, the tasks of the economic inspector will also be carried out by fishing inspectors. In order to implement the transformation measures, the National Inspectorate shall be deleted from the jurisdiction of the State Inspectorate as the authorities responsible for carrying out inspection controls in the implementation of the Law on protected designations of origin, protected geographical indications and guaranteed by traditional specialities of agricultural and food products. The inspection of the implementation of this law instead of the State Inspectorate's economic inspectors will carry out competent inspections by the Ministry of Agriculture. The inspection of the implementation of the Food Information Act instead of economic inspectors will carry out competent inspections by the Ministry of Agriculture, which are food quality inspectors, agricultural inspectors and veterinary inspectors. The seed law, fruit material and the recognition of agricultural plant varieties shall regulate the production, placing on the market and importing of agricultural reproductive material, the recognition of varieties of agricultural plants, the entry of varieties of agricultural plants into varieties, the maintenance of varieties of agricultural plants, the competences of individual bodies in the operations laid down in this law and the regulations adopted under this law, inspection controls and other issues of importance for the implementation of the single system of agricultural seeding and distribution. This law also applies to the production and placing on the market and import of genetically modified agricultural reproductive material and to the recognition of varieties of genetically modified agricultural material. Power of enforcement, the control of that law remains a Phytosanitary and Agricultural Inspectorate of the Ministry of Agriculture. The legislation on fertilisers and soil enhancers regulates the quality, quality control, labelling of transport and surveillance of fertilisers of mineral and organic and soil enhancers, as well as the production and control of organic fertilisers and soil enhancers placed on the market of the Republic of Croatia. The Wine Act regulates the production, transport, processing of grapes, etc. and the management of the wine growing catastra and other issues relevant for the implementation of the single system of production and transport of grapes for wine, must, wine and other products of grapes and wine, fruit wines and other products containing wine or fruit wine. These provisions stipulate that inspection controls are carried out by implementing the Wine Act instead of economic inspectors carrying out competent inspections by the Ministry of Agriculture. The livestock law regulates the breeding and production of farmed animals, fertilisation of domestic animals, trade in breeding animals, the zoo hygiene conditions of keeping domestic animals, the protection of the environment in breeding, the exploitation of domestic animals, the establishment and implementation of breeding animals, other issues relevant to the efficiency and promotion of livestock. Inspection of the Law on livestock rather than the State Inspectorate will be carried out by competent inspections of the Ministry of Agriculture. The area of the Organisation of the Markets for Agricultural Products is governed by the Law on the Common Organisation of the Markets in Agricultural Products and by specific measures, rules relating to the market in agricultural products. This law regulates the competent and implementing bodies of the work and powers of the competent and implementing bodies, the users, the bonds of measures and rules, the price monitoring system, the system of laboratories, etc. The inspection of the implementation of this law instead of the economic inspectors of the competent inspection of the Ministry of Agriculture. Following the need to implement the transformation measures of the State Inspectorate, the Ministry of Agriculture carried out an analysis of the Law on the Implementation of the Council Regulation, No 834/2007 on organic production and labelling of organic products, and it was found necessary to implement the amendment of the law in an act prescribed by the competent authorities of the State Inspectorate. Official controls on the implementation of this law and Council Regulation, number 834/2007 shall be carried out by agricultural inspectors and by jurisdiction under specific rules relating to agriculture and food, food quality inspectors, agricultural inspectors, sanitary inspectors and veterinary inspectors. The tobacco law regulates relations in production, purchase, processing, tobacco trafficking and production of tobacco products of the Republic of Croatia. The tobacco law applies to tobacco producers, legal and natural persons involved in tobacco production and processing and legal persons involved in the production and transport of tobacco products, which are registered for this activity. The proposal for a Law on the Jurisdiction of the State Inspectorate replaces the jurisdiction of agricultural inspectors in the part of tobacco production, and in the part of tobacco and tobacco products, is replaced by the jurisdiction of the Customs Administration according to the jurisdiction prescribed under specific rules. The Act on specific conditions for the placing of flour on the market regulates the conditions for the production and placing of flour on the market of the Republic of Croatia. The Law on specific conditions for the placing of flour applies to producers of flour, legal and natural persons dealing with the production of flour, which are registered for this activity in the Republic of Croatia and which are the first to place flour on the market. The proposal for a law deletes the jurisdiction of the State Inspectorate as the authorities responsible for carrying out inspection, and the exercise authority is given to the Food Quality Inspectorate. The proposed law amending the Law on forest reproductive material regulates the production of marketing and importing forest reproductive material, the production and import of Christmas trees, the conditions to be met by suppliers of forest reproductive material and suppliers of Christmas trees. In the procedure of enrolment in the register of forest seed facilities, the establishment and use of seed reserves, the genetic and seed banks of their forest trees, the establishment of a commission on forest reproductive material, the collection, use and exchange of data, information, and the costs related to the implementation of the prescribed measures. This draft law confers on the competent authority to exercise control over the placing on the market of forest reproductive material and Christmas trees to the competent service of the Ministry of Finance. These united laws will support the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64755	We've got two lines reported. First Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64756	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So you found that this new organisation of inspection services in the ministries would make it more effective for the work of the inspectors themselves as inspectors, which absolutely cannot stand, given that the associations used by inspectors so far as an independent Croatian body as well as the GONGs as well as state employees' unions have all rebelled against this distribution of inspectors and as the shutting down of a 15-year-old state inspectorate who has had his own successes that are clearly seen every year through their reports. You can see in everything but you don't see it because you want to strictly control the inspectors so the ministers can manage them and send them where they want to go. However, this will certainly not be welcomed as an independent body. Inspectors will be strictly in the service of politics and it will certainly not be good or useful, it is certainly a step backwards for the Republic of Croatia and for the EU and for the citizens themselves. No efficiency will occur in the future, but only a setback, a setback due to political creation and guidance because the inspectors will be directly under the hat of ministers and their assistants, thus focusing politically on their work. That's what shouldn't have happened, and that's what certainly won't be good for anyone or for no one, especially the Republic. No efficiency will be achieved because 30 days of efficiency will be desired by Croatia without inspectors because we have no solution. They were all left without a solution and no one named them anywhere and who knows after the adoption of these laws that should have been resolved long ago when they would be named, how many they would be named. Now they weren't enough, let alone in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64757	The replica matches Mario Moharic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64758	Dear colleague, you obviously did not listen to me at the beginning of the debate itself, and your discussion also speaks of the fundamental ignorance of the formation of inspection services in the Republic of Croatia. At the beginning of the debate I mentioned, and now I'm going to tell you again, the inspection services are currently set up to inspect the various 40s in various ministries, and the State Inspectorate has 6 inspections set up. And your story of independence falls into the water here, and I can personally say that because I've been a state inspectorate employee for more than 10 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64759	Second replica Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64760	I listened carefully to what you were saying and in the introduction you explained that the goal was to reduce the deficit and that the guideline was set to transform the State Inspectorate. This is not about any transformation of the State Inspectorate, it's about the abolition of the State Inspectorate. And removing competent, independent, supervisory authorities and putting them under political control is socially harmful, but it is very close to this government. To HANFA as an independent body you've put under a political cap, now you're putting the State Inspectorate. You can also review the State, why she stays as an independent body. Let's get her out of here as a constitutional category. What contribution will these "transformations" or abolishing the reduction of the government budget deficits be? Where is the financial plan of this reorganisation? It doesn't exist. We can predict some positive effects and I trust Minister Jakovina that there will be a reduction of some but there are no estimates, no analysis, no systematic access. The reduction or abolition of the State Inspectorate will affect the reduction and have an impact on the reduction of the deficit of the state budget as much as the wet stake in the rain. It has nothing to do with each other. But the goal is to put an independent body under political control. Says the minister who will oversee the collection of the residence tax, who controls the non-payment of the residence tax. So there's the one who doesn't pay the residence tax. This opens up to open up on all sides the possibility that the one watching doesn't pay and that it doesn't actually match who should be responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64761	The replica matches Mario Moharic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64762	Dear colleague, you repeat what your previous independence on the loss of the inspector's independence in inspection controls is because the only guarantee of independence inspection was the State Inspectorate. And I repeat for the third time, and that makes me think that this debate is already going in the political direction. If there were 40 inspections set up, it was done today by various ministries, and in the State Inspectorate you have six inspections. So what am I talking about? 6 inspections are now distributed through their home ministries. And we know that the inspectors, by law, write it to you independent in their supervision. 40 so far, the inspection works by the ministries, I repeat, and only six at the State Inspectorate, for the third time. What are we talking about? What kind of independence and addiction? ... You need to know the following information. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Option: Please do not throw.]] The State Inspectorate when it was founded was designed to unite all inspections, all state bodies Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. [[/Intruder: No, no, no.]] And yet, it has not worked until today. And such a united body that unites all inspections in Europe does not exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64763	On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, Branko Vuksic reported He's gone. [[Intruder: He's gone.]] The club loses the right to debate on this agenda point. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the time will be shared by colleagues Ivan Shuker and Davorin Mlakar. ... He spoke first. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm sorry, there's paper left here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64764	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates. So, very interestingly, the law carries a date on December 5th. We adopted him to have to go through an emergency procedure and we're discussing him on January 22nd and all these 18 laws say one very interesting thing. This Law will be published in the National Journal and entered into force on 1 January 2014. Today is January 22, 2014. So, Mr. Minister, you and your colleagues, if you want to show seriousness and what you want to say, then you should come today with the government amendment to this article. The other thing, no, no, it's not committed, because this is a disgrace. This is a shame. The government had to react at the time when the law was not discussed in the Croatian Parliament by 31.12. The second thing, says implementing this law does not require the provision of money in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia which is simply not true. I'm asking you a question based on what people, former employees of the State Inspectorate, got in the first month's salary? Because given this debate today and the debate that we're going to have tomorrow morning, people are still working at the state inspectorate, no matter what the State Inspectorate doesn't exist. Because the government is not with this High House, with most parliaments providing places with amendments to the laws where these people will be employed. Because until this law is passed in the Croatian Parliament, you have no place to hire and no place to pay them. And I call on the state audit to see where the first month paid off the salaries to the competent people, the employees of the State Inspectorate. And if it was done at the Ministry of Agriculture or any other ministry, you'd be breaking the law. Why? Because you wrote here that you didn't need funds. That's not true. You needed funds for each of these laws but you could indicate inside that the funds would be rerouted from the positions that were... The State Inspectorate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because if you don't write it, you're cheating on this High House. Because the Ministry of Agriculture doesn't have those resources. ... part of these funds transferred from the position of the State Inspectorate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this is where you cheat on us. And in the first month, you paid illegal wages. And the other thing, I listened carefully to your opening statement, Mr. Minister, these people weren't allowed to work, they weren't allowed to work until this law came into force. They can't work because who do they work for? The state's inspectorate doesn't exist because we've passed it by law. You didn't give them a place to work until this law came into force. The second question is whether or not we need to change some things about the formation of the state bodies and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Because look, I find it very strange for you to say here, let's say this is an article in the 569th Animal Protection, etc., that it will be supervised by the Ministry of Finance and, among other things, written about seal trade. Well... who is responsible for the seal trade of his colleague Linic at the Ministry of Finance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But okay, so be it. So much for technique, so much for preparation and so much for knowledge. Because I repeat, what I said behind this is what I'm standing for. And I'm calling on the state audit to check where all the state inspectors' employees were paid at the 1st month. It is clear that there has never been a story in Croatia that all inspections will be put on one cap for the simple reason that the inspectors from the Ministry of Finance simply have no place else to be but in the Ministry of Finance formation. I don't understand who's going to conduct second-degree appeals on solutions issued by this ministry. There's one thing that's obvious is that in this corny coalition there's been a division of cakes. Every political party has grabbed its own portfolio, but if you don't have inspectors under their paws, then you can't control that vault completely and that's why the State Inspectorate is being abolished. Because in this way, you won't achieve any more efficiency. That's funny stuff. Because if you're saying on the one hand that you're going to unite a variety of jobs and in, you're going to even sprinkle billions on these jobs, and here something that's been united is now being dug up under cover as a guideline of fiscal policy that's going to add up funds that just aren't true and they're not standing. But I'm saying, that's, everyone has a right to say what they want. What's wrong with all these laws is how large in the reasoning of the law, how many employees will be by each inspection service. Let's say this first law that's here with me, the proposal for a law on official controls carried out in accordance with the regulation on food and food for animals, so the logical thing is that if we say that this will be taken over by the Ministry of Agriculture it is said that it will be in the context of the law, that it will work two, three, five or ten people, and then the logical thing is that in the necessary means it has to write how much money must be provided for the material costs and for the salaries of these people because you don't have that money. If you've secured them, you've secured them against the law. You can't provide for some money that doesn't exist. ... My colleague Sobol... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64765	I'm asking you nicely, fellow Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64766	So this just shows how this government works. These 18 laws today show tomorrow how this government works. These laws had to be passed in the 9th month for a simple reason for all services to adapt and for all services to prepare themselves to be able to do this job. Remember, we objected to the urgency of the procedure of this law. It was an extraordinary session, so we could discuss this at an extraordinary session, so no one would be against it. It was far more important to discuss this than other things, but I'm talking about it then, so much about the order, so much about fiscal consolidation, so much about transparency and so much about the progress of the service. Definitely these laws bring us back at a time of socialism, etc., and the results will be seen in particular when an atar clashes with an atar as in this case, which has now been a very current collision with the ministry and to see where it is going. Now, here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64767	He'll continue his colleague Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64768	I've been told 20 minutes on behalf of the clubs, but I can see we're not holding on to it, so I'm going to try to add something that my colleague Schooker couldn't say, but he pointed out. One of the reasons for the urgent procedure is that there are particularly justified reasons for the laws to be passed, and that at least to maintain the vision of parliamentary democracy. In the light of most of these laws, it seems to me that there is something different about water. The proposer says avoiding the occurrence of legal gaps is, in particular, a valid reason for the adoption of this law by emergency procedure. That's not a valid reason. This may be a valid reason, in the opinion of the motionor, but that reason, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, does not exist, legal gaps can be found in many laws, we can even find in the mandate of this Government and completely conflicting norms in laws concerning the same issues, such as the electoral system, but that avoiding legal gaps is the reason for us to adopt 18 laws by an urgent procedure, it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, and that is, at the very end of the line, an extremely unnecessary rush. Unnecessary because these laws, as we can see, have already entered into force on January 1st of this year, regardless of today, and they are all the sad consequences of a different law that colleagues spoke of. This is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Circular of Ministrys and other central authorities of the State Administration adopted on the basis of, forgive me, and my colleague from the SDP has read a lot, and I must quote to be safer: adopted on the basis of guidelines of economic and fiscal policy for the period from 2014 to 2016 and measures to reduce deficits, and one of the measures envisaged is the transformation of the State Inspectorate. As much as we try to adapt to your interpretations, especially in foreign terms, we didn't necessarily understand transformation as the abolition of one of the state institutions but rather its reorganization, a different way of working, a different structure but certainly not primarily not the abolition of one central body. And because of colleagues from the SDP who spoke, and we heard the experience of a man who was employed at the State Inspectorate, the State Inspectorate was created to unite some inspection services that proved to be more effective and cheaper when they act together than when every ministry gave its own inspection to do the inspection work. That was the reason, those were some arguments for the introduction of the State Inspectorate. Even then, the inspectorate could not take over all the inspection services, so he could not, and he did not want to take over the administrative inspection. He was not interested in this, nor was he qualified for work, inspection work in the administration. And now what's most important. We're back here balling to people who are civil servants with special powers and responsibilities, people who have to perform if you want to be a repressive apparatus of the state and to enforce and control law enforcement. There are so two theories, one that all inspections are divided into ministries and the other, that at least some inspections are in one unique body as was the case with the State Inspectorate. Now you don't have an answer to one key question, except for this one Mr. Shucker spoke of, which is if you've centralized inspections in the ministry, and we know that even no ministry has a special law on their inspections. Even unnecessarily, we recently heard that the law was passed to me about a construction inspection. You have a special Sanitary Inspection Act, you have a special law on administrative inspection. These inspectors will act as a first-degree state administration and will make certain solutions. These solutions often address very important issues for those addresses of these standards, for those to which they apply, or for those they control. But you have no answer to the question of who now that you've divided these inspections by the ministries will decide to appeal to such solutions. All principles and the General Administrative Procedure Act indicate that the same body that has reached the solution cannot be resolved by appeal to those solutions. If all inspections will be placed in the ministries, then I ask you what solution the Government offers to protect the rights of citizens and who will resolve complaints against the resolution of those inspectors, which are most often something that will decide in the final line on your incomes. The solutions that you will close some crafts, local or not know what, the solution that the inspector of a particular ministry has made to appeal about that solution or the objection cannot be solved by the ministry which has now taken over those inspectors. Unfortunately, you took over the inspectors so that you threw them all over the ministries, forgive the expression, because some of the inspections that were logically and formally-legally included under the Ministry of Economy are probably now in those schedules belonging to, say, the Ministry of Finance. No one is particularly clear on why. And with a desire to suggest again, I know that not only does it apply to the Ministry of Agriculture, we would like to ask you to do so except that 18 of the laws have been laid down in such a late hour and a short time to read them, that you should at least consider that these laws go into two readings, not that you bring solutions like this, so in six months, you come up with the idea to re-create a new state inspectorate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64769	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Igor Radjenović first answered, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64770	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think it is clear to all the others in this hall that Croatia was not in the well-organised state, and in the good part, it is also the guilt and these inspection services that worked pretty badly said there is still a colleague in front of the SDP club. Only those 6 inspection services, so 31435 unsolved administrative and irregular items. Therefore, inspection services within the State Inspectorate itself and only in part of the debate have touched these fundamentals from the HDZ Club, meaning the fundamental dilemma of whether the inspections, whether to strengthen the State Inspectorate or strengthen, thus serving the ministries. This government has decided on this second time and we believe it because of this data and some other circumstances that I can hardly say in these two minutes, so it's decided on this second time. However, my colleague Shuker has reported to you primarily, so a discussion for replication. You missed one basic fact, which is that on December 4th, we passed the Construction Act. So, your whole debate is I have to admit pretty well and effectively, it's a pity that in the late hour so probably the media won't follow you talking about that something of course has been broken, that there's no basis for payouts etc. Therefore, on 4 December we passed the Law on the Construction and Circumstance of the Ministry and other central authorities of the state administration and that law, Article 10 clearly states that, therefore, by way of effect on 1 January of this year, the State Inspectorate shall cease and all matters within the scope of the detour shall be taken over by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy and all other services. Therefore, I am the status of an officer, the right and all of what you have been saying about the salary has been said precisely by that law passed on December 4th. In addition, the government signed an agreement on the takeover of state inspectors on January 1st, and these four ministries signed it. So, unfortunately, the time has passed. I have more arguments. It's covered, and the government must've done it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64771	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64772	Comrade Radjenovic, you just forgot that these laws define what these people should do. Because until this law is changed, it's not just the power to do certain things. And then why are you changing these laws if you solved it with that law? You simply define these laws to stop a job being done by the State Inspectorate, rather than by these newly established services... amendments to this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what you're talking about, you've created a prerequisite to pass these laws. And with this law, you are definitely confirming that there is no State Inspectorate. You have these so-called so-called. bound by laws and this is the last law in the chain and you, until you passed this law, were not allowed to pay the wages. You can say whatever you want now, the more you point out in this law, the more money this law does not require to implement this law. So where do you get the funding if you don't need financial resources? You cannot obtain financial resources from this Law of Design, but only by this law that you define that these jobs will be done by some new services. But management needs to know a little bit as well as some other things, and your ignorance has led us to this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64773	The second replica of Hrvoje Neklic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64774	Dear counterpart Shuker, here is how you interpret these reforms, in fact the main objective of one of the basic objectives of these reforms of the State Inspectorate is to save, above all, in a way that the inspection bodies do not overlap in their work and in their powers, but that the existing network of already established inspections is expanded with the downloaded inspectors from the State Inspectorate. Well, that's exactly how these 40 people that the minister mentions are actually just being taken over by the Ministry of Agriculture just turned into a already established network. So the costs won't increase. One of the basic goals is savings.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64775	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64776	Col. Nekic, these people have been to the State Inspectorate so far and have not gone into a network. They are now moving to the Ministry of Agriculture where the system is yet to be established. Not to mention, the question is, will territorially remain the same as the State Inspectorate? And obviously you need to sit down, you need to read all 18 of these laws, you need to look at what was the jurisdiction of the State Inspectorate and then it'll become clear to you. And about the fact that there was savings, so I said here it was necessary to write how much money it took, and then all these 27, 28 laws would sit down nicely and count down to see how much money it took, how much the State Inspectorate cost, and see how much savings it was. But this is a political reason simply can't why someone from the HNS or HDZ shouldn't let God's Inspector control if he's at the head of the SDP he has to have complete control over everything. So all those who know, they know that the State Inspectorate and those six inspections they've been set up for not overlapping and for surveillance to be as effective as possible. And about how this is going to make something happen, you're just going to see what it's going to look like because to make it effective it should be brought back to the first semester of last year, at the latest in the 9th month of last year. And like this, these people don't know who they're working for or what they're doing right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64777	Third replica, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64778	Thank you very much. A fellow Shuker told you the results we'll see. Well, of course we'll see the results, but we'll also feel the consequences. We've already felt them, though. Well, we're all witnessing anarchy at the State Inspectorate, but I don't know if there's a State Inspectorate or not, I don't know. I don't know if there are any structural units in the ministries or not. If there are structural units in the ministries how, if we go with that idea, how can they exist when we're just passing laws today? If paid salaries from the ministries were to be paid when there was no idea how many inspectors from the inspectorate are going through certain ministries and how many inspectors and professional services. And if there's an inspectorate and the inspectorate has paid off the funds like there's no such thing as an inspectorate anymore? So it's an absolute mess because it went wrong and hasty. And you both wondered who would bring the solutions to the appeals, both fellow Mlakar and you. Well, of course, although you're saying that it's not a practice for the same body, but as it's already been introduced, practice in the pre-departure settlement that the minister decides on everything, both complaints and first-degree appointments and commissions, so here the minister will also decide, as the Commissioner's law was in the pre-negotiation settlement, and this law is actually a commissar's way of controlling and controlling. And it is unacceptable that there is no such complex situation in which there is no analysis or systematicisation of jobs, of the number of executives, of the technical equipment and of how many of the inspectors' ministries with professional training, with a qualification, with a number, with a financial burden going to which unit. You don't know that at all today when we're talking about these laws, and even though the salaries have already been paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64779	Thank you. Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64780	Look, colleague Maric, if it is legal for you to say that the Animal Control Act in Article 6(2) states that economic inspectors do so, then as long as this is not deleted by the amendments to this law, it is done by economic inspectors and cannot be done by someone else. Or, for example, in Article 7 paragraph 2 b, an economic inspector tells you. Therefore, until this law is passed, economic inspectors can do so, and when this law is passed, then it will be the food quality inspection or food quality inspectors. In accordance with paragraph 3, economic inspectors shall be replaced by the words ‘food quality inspections’. So, until this law changes, you can change the structure of government and government bodies 15 times, but this job can only be done by people called economic inspectors. And when this law is passed then inspectors can do it for food quality. So that's quite clear. One who understands, let's say the minister can't sign the card until this law is passed because he doesn't have any food quality inspectors yet, they're gone. Only when it's brought... You don't have them, no, no. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's only when this law is passed that you'll have them because this law still gives you economic inspectors. That's the facts. Who doesn't know how to form a government that can talk whatever they want. Either you will argue that economic inspectors and food quality inspectors can now come into control, or these new inspectors could be picked up by these 18 laws, but at this point the only ones that exist, which are these 18 laws, are economic inspectors. And those are the facts, colleague Maric. But I'm saying someone's blind and, of course, in this country, you can do whatever you want, whatever you want. But every force has its end, and it's never gone as far as anyone can but when someone tells him they can't do it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64781	And now we will hear the replica of Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64782	Thank you very much. Well, you've all defined how many failures there are, indeterminates, without analysis, and you can see that this kind of solution is out of the way of any kind of mind that is being brought up this way, which condemns those who rarely raise their voice against SDP's policy, which is GONG, these are consumer associations that have clearly said that this inspectorate did his job well, that he had professional and quality people, that they were really in the function of both consumers and citizens, we can argue that there will be no more impartial inspectors because they will have to control and sanction the actions of those who had commanders sitting upstairs in the building, in the next office. The State Inspectorate was supposed to be a lever to create a better, better-quality society. The control system of this move is returning safely back and putting into function politics, it is unequivocal and it is absolutely visible. The goals that will be achieved are clear. They will certainly be that one expert team that has certainly done its quality work so far has been scattered even who knows how many solutions they will get about their new job but I am sure in this way, the hasty move has threatened the independence of the work of inspectors, this is certainly a flat-rate move a pair of excellents that have not been experienced so far because what is done with the state inspectorate is a step and a political act as a transformation of the state inspectorate into a political inspectorate and we can safely conclude that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64783	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64784	Thank you very much. Well, look, colleague Djakic, now the SDP's amendments are coming. Well, I don't understand why the SDP club is sending amendments to when the law is going to apply if the motionary is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it's just ridiculous. So, the SDP Club, after discussion of the HDZ Club, stamps out amendments and sends, but well, so much for seriousness, so much for the quality of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. My colleagues and colleagues, please. However, you know what my colleague Djakic reminds me of, in 2002, someone also remembered about some catfish idea that the ZAP should be abolished and payment traffic given to private banks. And look what happens today after 11 years all the big economic things and financial things come back it's no longer ZAP but it's FINA, but look 7, 8 years have to fight bloody hard to get that FINA as much as you keep it from falling apart. Well, I'm afraid it's gonna happen again after a few years, but fortunately, that coalition probably won't get a chance to re-establish the state's inspectorate. Or, let's just say we abolished the financial police. Now again at the Ministry of Finance agrees with some extra control orders but I say, it's best when people admit a mistake and these amendments written by the SDP Club are confirmation that people have finally realized that we have been having a total mess for 22 days as far as state inspections are concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64785	On behalf of the HNS Club, a respected colleague, Petar Baranovic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64786	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary with Associates, Your Honors Ladies and gentlemen, you insist that tonight at seven and twenty you do your job, the HNS Club will support this bill, that is, this package of 18 laws. I liked the honor and pleasure of defending him. I like the records, 18 is an impressive number and I'm going to give my pains to the HNS Club and we're going to cut the exposure short, it won't take 15 minutes to actually comment on the basics of this record package. The Prime Minister himself said in the introduction, and it also says in these brief reasons that the intensity was among other things and savings. I'm not going to engage in an analysis of how and in what way, I'm going to be optimistic and I'm going to put my trust in that and I'm going to tell you that this is going to be a goal. What is more important to me as a representative and also to the HNS Club, which is to ensure more effective and quality control in this area because, in particular, when it comes to these 18 laws, it is similar to that of the previous pesticide debate, there is a particular importance of quality control of food production, livestock production, food production, food marketing, animal control, veterinary, sanitary regulations, standard application, in other words even food produced from GMOs or genetically modified agricultural products, etc., etc. The opposition colleagues, of course, have a clear task to criticise in all order, and they have very often absorbed in their exhibitions the fact that such structured inspections, which are thematically divided by their tasks and by the references of the employees, will not have sufficient efficiency because they are placed under a political cap. I'm a little tired of independent institutions in the Republic of Croatia, so then you happen to have two identical cases and someone dead cold comes up in your prime and says yes, so it's normal to pass in accordance with Croatian laws for two identical cases of two different solutions. They're not under the influence of politics. Then you have a situation that for a few months now, it has certainly not faded from the memories of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which has cost one kuna and five limes in Croatia this year. You have an independent institution, a competition protection agency that has been so diligently doing its job that the cartels have been created during a television daily in prime time without complexes and without fear of any repression. Today, my colleague Vuksic and I had a special day, otherwise it is generally known that we rarely agree but we have bright moments, so it happens that in one day we agree twice. A colleague Vuksic pointed out the fact that, hard and rarely, these independent institutions and bodies have touched large ones, usually the small ones get beaten by bones, which we say in Dalmatia, and the great ones in peace with absolute peace and untouchable are doing their job and when you look at it from a political position is no wonder, it is not very special to fellows, politically attractive to seek responsibility from some director, some independent institution in Croatia, it is not even popular, is it, hitting on the independence of the system. That's why I think these inspections will be forced by those who are responsible politically far more effectively because if these inspections, specifically which are subject to tonight's 18 laws, are not done properly, then this very man who defended this, or has made that law, will in some way be politically responsible and vulnerable and will be in his interest as well as the foreigners he represents and the government whose member is that those inspections concerning these laws and supervisions are doing their job properly. He's not independent, he's very dependent. It depends on the perception of voters, on the satisfaction of citizens, on the satisfaction of consumers, and is much more grateful to know who is responsible for what in the system, than when we have abstract situations. I love watching pictures in galleries, watching classics, abstractally I never really preferred, hard to figure out what the painter wanted to do at the moment of inspiration. This is a clean situation. It's a completely clean situation. From the perception of us from the HNS. I allow, of course, democracy or multilateralism, to have colleagues in pluralism who have a need or simply truly feel that way, have a different opinion than we do. The laws are prescribed, from my experience in the field of marine fisheries I can say that, in addition to the Fishing Inspectorate, a little what in the fishing business can specifically be monitored by any other inspector with any other reference in quality. To end up as an argument on this concept where you know exactly which profession, which inspection within the Ministry of Agriculture is overseeing. And esteeming the importance of controlling the traffic and production of agricultural food products, especially one combination, in my youth I was quite lively, several times I fell off the bike and fortunately patched me up by a surgeon, not by a doctor of general practice, but by one who understood my job. I also believe that when it comes to monitoring the quality of food production, agricultural products and all that is related to it, and it can directly affect human health and be even with latent consequences, this concept is better than the inspectorate of general practice. Thank you very much for your attention. The HNS Club will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64787	We're moving on to replicas. Young Marelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64788	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Baranovic, you said independence. Yes, independence of 32,000 pending cases, that's independence, so far the State Inspectorate. But also independence, we're saying that we're not, as I now think I've already had a few calls on the subject and that I'm obliged to say that coming to the field of the State Inspectorate has been known in advance where to sleep, who to control, who to prepare, all of it was known. So they were timed. This year it was the first time that the State Inspectorate on the ground was not in private, but was in hotel, meaning accommodation. The hotel with the state was then still a state-owned majority owner in that hotel. So that's the State Inspectorate's behaviour, unfortunately, which should be independence. I think this way will make control much better and that each minister will have responsibility for his work, or his inspectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64789	Second replica, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64790	Comrade Baranovic, you said you were lively in your youth, it seems to me that you are still lively in rhetoric. Very hard sometimes you also characterize certain phenomena so that you haven't lost anything to it. And it makes sense that different people think. It's also logical that they have different attitudes. It's logical that they think differently. Sometimes it's true, sometimes it's for some other reasons, but here I'll try on just one specific case now to see why and how you think, and here's how I do in one case. Let's say in January this year I'm interested in whether there are any structural units for you at the ministries or not? Is there a State Inspectorate or isn't there? I'll say what I think. I don't think the State Inspectorate formally exists, and I don't think that uniform units exist formally either. And here's your amendment to prove that there will only be when this law enters into force, and that will happen after the date of its publication, and we haven't even voted on it yet. So that's probably at the end of the month. Is January 1, 2014 an empty walk or not? I don't think so, and here's what the facts prove. I am interested in how you interpret this January 2014, whether it is defined whether these inspectors, professional service officers from the State Inspectorate, who could no longer become in the ministry in the construction unit when they are not yet legal, will only come into force when the vote is passed and after the day of publication. I think there's an empty walk for at least a month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64791	The replica matches Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64792	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Marić, thank you very much for the compliment that I am still lively, it is good to hear when you come like this in some more serious years. As for the amendment, you said we submitted the amendment. Well, I like my SDP colleagues, my traditional partners politically, but I haven't joined the SDP yet. And as for January 1st, I can comment on it so trivially, I know when it's an inventory at the store that even for a moment the store is known and closed. This happens, whether or not it happened and what details are related to the existence of the 1st January model of design as you have expressed yourself, that Mr. Minister will be kind to answer for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64793	We're moving on to an individual debate, and Mirela Holly signed up.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64794	Thank you, Vice President. In Plan 21, Kukuriku coalition wrote nothing about which we are discussing today except in the context of the need for more efficient and transparent work of inspection services. The Croatian variant of Agenda 21 reminds me of the UN's basic document on sustainable development does not speak of the fate of the State Inspectorate, but is discussed within the party. So it wasn't said that the State Inspectorate would be strengthened, that it would be abolished or that there would be something else in Plan 21, but there was a lot being said within the SDP. The SDP is the leading party in power and has been mentioned and considered to strengthen the State Inspectorate in a way that gradually transfers all inspection services to the State Inspectorate. So that was some idea that was diametrically opposite of what we're witnessing right now and what we're working on right now. It has been said that all ministry inspections will eventually be transferred to the State Inspectorate in order to strengthen the situation of inspections to make the inspection more effective and to make inspection services more transparent than policies and resolution ministers. Why such an approach? Because inspections are a repressive apparatus that is supposed to be independent of politics, an impartial instrument that controls without the influence of politics the implementation of laws proposed by the ministries and the government and passed by the Parliament. This should have been one of the measures of reforming the state administration that would turn the state administration into what the administration should be, which is an effective, transparent, fair, impartial public service of all citizens and citizens in the Republic of Croatia. Everyone who worked in the public authorities knows how things work in the ministries. What are the ministries doing? The ministries propose laws and implement a government policy based on the ruling policy through these proposals, the political option is won by the elections. The ministries, following the adoption of the laws by the Parliament, are working on administrative solutions which are implemented in practice. These administrative procedures should be conducted fairly, impartially, in accordance with precisely defined procedures and in the precise deadlines set with precisely defined outcomes. Administrative oversight of the implementation of these administrative procedures is usually carried out by a second-degree body in the ministry itself. Infringements and criminal provisions of the resolution laws are carried out by inspection services which we have returned to the departments of the State, according to the method of all the eggs in the same basket, by abolishing the State Inspectorate. This approach is good for raising transparency of procedures and democratisation of authorities. Why? Because all the instruments of government and those of administrative and supervisory and those of inspection are placed in the hands of one institution and let's be realistic of one person. If a person is responsible and honest, it's no problem. But if the head person is not like that and abuses his position and authority, then one person can get out of the game by saying kick those players out by saying who they don't like. Democratic societies are working on mutual control of different levels and aspects of government. If this is the goal, then the logic of acting is diametrically contrary to what is now being done, which is strengthening the independence of the state inspectorate, raising it to the level of the ministry, uniting all inspections into the policy of an independent state inspectorate and moving all inspections from the ministries. I recognise this is a very large reform and its aim is to raise transparency and independence of the work of inspections and is part of a major and comprehensive public administration reform. And it is the public administration and public administration reform that is the most important reform that the government needs and must implement because it is precisely through public administration reform that we can come up with that instrument that is essential for building a cheaper, fairer, fairer and more efficient system of all public authorities. Without this reform, we can forget the success of any other reform and this reform must be qualitative and then quantitative. The government cannot do much, but some things can and must do and reform public administration is one thing the government can do because here are indeed all instruments just and exclusively in its hands. It is therefore difficult to understand why the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not go more seriously into public administration reform and I hope that given the fact that this is embedded in the proposal for a state budget for this year that the results of the public administration reform will nevertheless begin to be seen during this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64795	Thank you. The replica was reported by counterpart Branko Juričev-Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64796	Thank you very much. Well, well-respected colleagues, Holly. I'm a little surprised, you've been based on your whole debate that this is going to be more honest, more transparent, that it's not all in force, all in one man, all in the hands of one man. I was an economic inspector, and I know only one inspector comes to one employer, and it's always just one person, regardless of who's in charge, whether it's the minister or the chief state inspector. Now, throughout today's debate, this is going through efficiency, rationalization. What rationalization we are talking about when here and now through the SDP amendment it is a little funny that the SDP warns the government and all those legislators that the basic provision should amend the law to bring the law into force on the first day of its publication in the National Journal. It will be at best at the end of this month, so February 1st. 786 inspectors, so now count the gross wages, that's over 8 million kunas irrevocably lost. These people on the ground, they just don't know what to do. They sit, they come to their jobs, they know they're assigned to this or that ministry. I don't know if the minister knows that, for example. Sibenik-Knin County has one agricultural inspector and Split-Dalmatia does not. Well, it's just that one of the inspectors is gonna be in charge of both counties, and by the way, that inspector doesn't even have a driver's exam. I'm asking you how she's gonna get into the area of Trillj, Brač, Hvar and the like? He'll go, I don't know by train, by bus, by boat? How long will it take? Is that where you're going to pay for the accommodations and stuff? So far, they've had three of them, four of them sitting in one vehicle. So we'd go around that, too. [[Intruder: Time.]] That area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64797	The replica matches Mirel Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64798	Dear colleagues, I don't think you've listened very well. I'm just advocating a different approach, I'm going to support this package of laws. However, I think it would be a better approach to go towards strengthening the independence of the State Inspectorate of the meaning of the ministries, i.e. the public authorities, because I think it is not good to put all the eggs in the same basket. And I think it's better to raise the influence of the inspectorate if the chief state inspector had so much to say about the power and authority of one minister, then he'd be but a couple to the other ministers, and it would certainly feel in the work, after all, of the inspection services. But we're on our way, and now it's normal and logical to pass a package of laws like this, and I'm going to vote for this package of laws. However, I think this would be better and a more democratic procedure and strengthening in some way the transparency of the system to go exactly the other way. But look, you've been on your own for a very long time, you could've strengthened these institutions, you weren't doing it. And the fact is that the State Inspectorate that had these, I don't know how many inspections under it were not very independent and effective in carrying out inspection controls. And for what? Because there was no political will for such a thing. The amendment of the SDP Club makes sense to me, because it would be illogical to keep the law, given that we broke that deadline, it would be better if we had passed these laws before but didn't adopt them, and it is now logical that they should still be adopted with effect on the day of publication in the National Journal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64799	The last individual debate, Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64800	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's to taking this opportunity because this is really for the Guinness Book of Records, 18 laws, a set of laws that came into force and we're discussing them today. That's a nice piece of information. But at first, I have a few more questions to ask. I'd like to know who thought of this, who this source was in the government, who thought to say, here's what's independent, unique, let's just split it up by the ministries just so we know which initiative it came from, so we can determine who's responsible if this doesn't work. Which was the minister who suggested it. The second question that I'm facing is what analysis we've concluded that this system is ineffective, where these figures are because it's one institution for 15 years 786 inspectors, it's 786 fate. And of course they don't care where they end up, what they're going to do in the way they're going to work. And third, it says here in the law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the 117th session held on 26 September 2013 adopted guidelines on economic and fiscal policy for the period 2014-2016 and measures to reduce deficits. One of the measures envisaged is the transformation of the State Inspectorate. So I would like to know how much the Croatian deficit will be reduced given the transformation of the State Inspectorate. It's probably the analysis, the ones I'm talking about and showed. Because the next thing you know, it's the most dangerous, independent inspectorate in the course of action. It's in this way completely now questionable. Because here, we find out today, this affair is about the Assistant Minister of Finance, the man has a hotel, we heard a nice hotel and he didn't pay his residence fee. How come this one from the Ministry of Finance who has now taken out of the Inspectorate a part of those who were supposed to go to tourism but who did not end up at the Ministry of Finance because they have to monitor how to pay or spend a tourist tax, how he will go to that hotel and make an inspection report. That's one question that's being raised with these changes that have come into effect and we're discussing them today. Unbelievable. 'Cause I'm still saying, 15 years behind us and there's practice. The HDZ Government has been replaced by two state inspectors. When they were wrong, when they were caught in their mistakes, they were removed. I'm interested in who's gonna be replacing anyone here. This is a system in which no one can change, possibly a court of law. How does that work? One educational inspector went into primary school inspection and found irregularities in one musical one. Do you know where he is today? In an official court, the Ministry of Education is in charge of proceedings against her. Will we testify to many more procedures where ministers will start because of possible errors in inspection, possible and false findings of the official, let us say procedures or courts and thus resolve the issue of how these people are said to be loyal and to do what they are told. Some have recently rebelled in an open letter, however, it all comes down to the story of a tell-tale. Obviously, these people have a big problem. I don't think we needed this, but how do we even get in the way of something that in my opinion has violated all the theories of absurdity, that we're discussing and it says it's already in effect, but my God. But I came forward for another reason the same reason because this is indirectly linked to two laws that are very interesting, which shock today my islanders, coastal people, and sea fishing, that is. A license for small fishing. A poor communication strategy with Croatian citizens has left hundreds of thousands in shock. They came in nice neatly to verify their licenses for small fishing, and then tell them gentlemen almost, nothing this year. No, I get it, we signed it, but why people are shocked, obviously they didn't know anything. They come as neatly as they come every year. Now no one knows who's right at all... who's right. Which is 50% of a census at all, why it's 50%, why it's not 100. People keep asking you, I have to ask you that, so we don't have a minister here every day. Let him say, let him explain, so no one says it's his fault, but we need to know what's waiting for us. There's people on the islands who need to know. Here is the minister's unique opportunity to tell me you gentlemen on the islands have a rule or an opportunity as early as 2014, all or only those over 60 who are poor, and everyone else has no right. People will understand that, but they're shocked because they obviously didn't know. We have a right to talk about it. Maybe it's funny for you in Zagreb, not for us on the island. Well, some of them lived on it. Maybe that's funny to you, people lived on it. Why do you think that a 70-year-old or 55-year-old is informed, that he sits in front of the TV all day and monitors everything that happens in legal traffic or in the system? Well, people don't know because they're being served all the information that doesn't mean anything to them in their lives, and what matters to them is that when they came to these district offices, they made them come home from the counter nice and said you gentlemen have no right. Of course a man wonders what he is now, so who's to blame again, HDZ? Well, good if it's our fault. But why didn't the minister inform those people? Well, here's your chance. Tell them what the problem is. I'm not attacking you, but I'm saying we're bad at a clearly communication strategy because people obviously don't know what we're getting into the European Union. Ask them. Second question, mayors and commissioners, water areas, 20 water areas. My example from the island of Rab, we get water from Lika-Senj County, from Like, and now they make us be in the watery area of the Primorje-Gorski County with which we have no physical touch points. We don't have a water line, we don't have a chance to connect to any water lines. People are in wonder, mayors and commissioners. I don't know what it's like in other areas. They don't know what's waiting for them, where it's going to end. Here's the minister. It's an opportunity to answer these two questions. I'm not saying it's your fault, but to get real quality information and to know what's going on in these two questions in a year. That's why I took this opportunity because this is, after all, indirectly connected to this State Inspectorate story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64801	Now we move on to the replicas that are... 4. First Mario Moharic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64802	Dear fellow Boric, I am the most fascinated when you and your club, HDZ, come from tears about the deformed State Inspectorate, an independent body, and for your information you probably don't have, you must know that five inspections about 4 years ago, up to 5, means at the time of HDZ's rule, separated from the inspectorates and attached to the Ministry of Agriculture, which were your livestock, wineries, fishing, forestry and hunting inspectors. So five inspections, five inspectors during your reign three or four years ago. And you're talking about breaking up the State Inspectorate and some kind of independence. State inspectors were independent, however, to some extent. I will only tell you one example of your independence during your reign and me as a personal example of that independence. Here these days I'm getting a message from one of the inspectors, the chief inspector, there were four. He puts pressure on him, sends me messages that he'll testify if I go to a court dispute to... cancel. I know about these pressures. On two occasions, the HDZ delegation with the HEP director was then the chief, general director who was my opponent in the local elections. Before the local elections, there was a delegation with the chief inspector to cancel this because I can't stand up to him. So much for your independence.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64803	Time, thank you. The second replica, Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64804	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament and thank you for the intervention to put this cooling out because this is impossible to sit there. My colleague, Boric, what you were talking about in your presentation, and some other colleagues from our clubs, it seems to me that you would tell someone else to dare, it's about... the car. Now you don't know who, what, and where. Now they're mentioned five years ago that they crossed cattle, wineries, forestry, hunting. So what does that have to do with these inspectors from this State Inspectorate? But why is this all done this way, and not just now? Well, maybe it's not the minister's fault. Maybe it was at the Prime Minister's request, and since there's not so much expertise or experience in the work, there's no state-run expert exams, there's no inspector's exams, there's no work in the administration, and then it's very hard to agree on something to cover something. And then today we talk about it all. It's not simple, it's really not easy to run a ministry and have a team around and legal and other that has no experience in that work, and to meet wishes, ok. Your prime minister and your party president, and that's what needs to be defended.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64805	Third replica Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64806	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Boric, I had no intention of reporting for the replica, but you touched a field which may have been taken by me to tell myself I may even know more about it than Mr. Minister himself. It's about fishing. You asked why the census, you asked the thesis that people don't know what to do. The other day, I had a written notice from the Fisheries Administration sent to users so far by that right of coastal fishing with an indication of what and how to act for the future. So the management sent it in writing. I had that notice in my hand. Have all the officials done their job in the post office, whether they all got in all local self-government units can't judge, but so much about it. Small fishing is a question that is specific to Croatia and nowhere in Europe there is no such kind of competence, professional fishermen that you have one category that should be used for recreation or support for the survival of the island's inhabitants, and that they can hunt and market and sell against the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia that clearly define the conditions under which they can be sold. But we're like Mediterranean people, people who emotionally gave that opportunity to people by understanding the weight. Negotiations clearly needed to recede, but we may have defused our partners from Europe a little, too, because we negotiated what is called small coastal fishing that will only be available to those who need it and therefore there is financial censorship and there is a period of age for those who are over 60 years old, and others as an alternative there is a way in and into professional fishing so let people hunt and let people live and some people work. Thank you very much. I'm sorry we're running out of time. There's more.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64807	And the last replica of Mladen Marelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64808	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Boric, you have had time to inform the citizens of Croatia, the islanders of what you have signed so that our citizens are not surprised when they come there because we are surprised too, so with much that we do not know that you have signed everything. Because what my colleague Baranovic told me is a house of five, six meters, ten meters from the sea, I can't do anything. I'm gonna go hook up and I can do it. Unfortunately, the Gulf of Stone can't do that either. We had a debate about it because you declared nature protection, Lastovsky there an island, a nature park, so they shared their licenses when they could. Now we all come to the same roof once. The Ministry, or Constitutional Court, annulled this on Lastovo. They're people here, professionals can work. So, you signed a lot of it in a hurry, and you didn't fight for the rights of the islanders, the coasters, and those. Not only that, but also the other chapters you signed. No wonder the minister who was then didn't even know what the day was under discussion, which is being signed, the foreign minister he was. It was that he was talking about other items, he didn't even know what the day was signing. That's what I mean by honest.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64809	Agricultural Minister Tihomir Jakovina reported on the closing statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64810	I thank the esteemed Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. One piece of information that's obviously missed but I'll do it again. We had this set of 18 laws bound to the Ministry of Agriculture in the Government on December 5th at the 129th session. After the government, we sent him to this home in the process. So we made all 18 of our laws as nerds first. You weren't working. Sorry, it's a mistake with this date, and we expected ours to come along with the State Inspectorate's day that our laws would come into force. And we've sent in the government procedure as the Ministry of Agriculture of the same amendment that has now been strengthened by colleagues from the club. It's up to us just because they're almost identical, that they only correct the date of application on the first day after the publication in the National Journal to decide if they're going to bother for an hour on Friday with an explanation for every law on why we have a government amendment or we're going to accept the club, the same amendment from here. That's the only difference. We realized not by mistake, the laws were sent on time. I'm sorry my colleague Shucker and the young man aren't here because they've brought out a series of inaccuracies. Part of this was explained by a respected colleague, Radjenovic, that there is also a law that adopted this high house, that there is a decision, that in that law it is true in Article 10. It is also said how the solution will identify workers who have moved to the Ministry of Agriculture, into an existing structure because we have not invented agricultural inspection, nor livestock, nor winery, nor food safety inspection. They are existing and working, they only had a narrowed section and the ability to work because we could only work to a certain segment, and part of the economic inspectors did. They shall, until they have received according to the Internal Order Regulation of the Ministry of Resolution, work according to the powers they have. You asked for savings. Here's a very simple savings. Almost 650,000 were leases for the inspectors of the State Inspectorate. In most parts they'll be distributed in the existing spaces that we already have, so multiply that times 12, so multiply times the number of years and then you'll see. The colleague said very handsomely and very handsomely in 2005 that the same State Inspectorate had been spilling over, or returning specialised inspectors to the ministries to certain administrations. Besides, we can go back to '92. and '93. When the State Inspectorate came into existence, it came from the Market Inspectorate of the Ministry of Economy. Again, the question is whether we will have polyvalent inspectors who will work and cover everything, or whether we will have the traceability of control as planned, an annual control plan that is done or monitored, which is ultimately coordinated and controlled by the European Commission's inspections when we come. We would like to refer to the experience of the developed old EU member states, I do not know Italy which is close to us, even to these few newer Slovenias, which also has those inspections set up in the ministry. In addition to how you'll explain to me how the Ministry of Agriculture is responsible and the check point for everything related to the Food Act, how I can be responsible for the quality of food on shelves in a trade chain if I can't get into that trade chain or meat in glass windows in that same trade chain if I can't control it but not myself, because I don't think the minister should go by hand or behind the inspector and control it, but our professional people inspectors when they are allowed to go into inspection only to the butcher's office or carnage. Now he'll be able to do it. Does this State Inspectorate work so fantasticly during that period? I would listen to some of your replicas and suggestions say that probably in Jordanic's time he worked fantasticly and that we should have kept that model. I don't think so, and I'm sure everything about food, about the inspections that are in the area of my ministry, will work more efficiently, better, more quality and more transparently. It's going to be measured financially in all the savings we're going to have. From saving cars, from exits to sampling controls to business spaces. At the very least, both the structure and the jobs that will probably work on the coefficients and the rest. How could we pay? We were also covered by the agreement that we had, interdepartmental agreement, people taking over, exactly the number of people being known who entered the structure and which you have but I have 950 employees in the ministry, I think it was at the end of last year, and systematicized about 1350 jobs. A similar structure that was before. These people have only filled out departments of inspection services that are already in place and have been working for years, only now will they work much better and more efficiently. How could we pay off? So we have a certain quantum for 950 or 2500 people in the department's division and we have a quantum asset that's on our payroll. By agreement, we shared both the obligations and the rights from the funds that come both material and financial from the State Inspectorate's Budget which was. Talking about it didn't bother me a bit, but we're talking about the great independence of the state inspectorate itself. The state inspectorate was what was like a structural unit? What was it like to be a structural unit that had such terrible independence? The question is, what were they doing, how and who controlled it? How will they lose that independence if they work in a system programmed with annual inspection plans plus norms? Report warrants. Because if it comes from the citizens of the application and logically that inspection services are then the head of the sector or inspection services shall send an employee into additional control. Or shouldn't you be doing that? Make sure it works while I run the ministry. They're working, the inspectors are working on the basis of the powers they now have. By adopting the Internal Order Regulation, the Ministry will receive solutions and will then do exactly those tasks which may be a little more specific, or not what they had so far in the work description. Speaking of which, I'm not gonna say much about Mr. Shucker and the seal trade, or seal fur, and I don't think I'm gonna mention much of it, and I think this set of laws, this re-designed inspection system, will strengthen the inspection services in my ministry. I said about 950 people we have, one third of them are inspectors. This part of 40 people coming to me is a drop in the sea but a drop in the sea that will be part of a good team and that will work better on that segment and sector of jobs for which we are responsible, for which we are also responsible by a system agreed and prescribed both by directives and regulations and by what we owe to the EU. You mentioned two things now, a colleague of Baranovic answered you a part of it, Chapter 13 is finished, we went back as warlords and we said all the living and dead arrangements. You want to tell me about the management plans, as far as fishing gears are concerned, as far as the exceptions to what we've done in quality are concerned with the completion of Chapter 13. - Fishing? Nothing. ... By the middle of next month, by the middle of this year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Did we have a little fishing? Yes, logically in the season what counterpart Baranovic said to the rules on small fishing, signed, presented, delivered to professional people. They just don't fit everyone. We said property census 50%, we said over 60 years, the rest of them could go on sports fishing or start crafts and start dealing with economic fishing, not be competing with real fishermen like so far. Because that's what we encouraged, and actually at the small door on the one hand we were socially sensitive and we gave the opportunity, and on the other hand, given the weight, we did quite the competition, i.e. the gray and black market that was sold in restaurants and without any control. This way it's still arranged. Is it the happiest solution? Maybe not, but it's something we were obliged to do. You also mentioned the reform of the water-communal economy I think that since you quote me Rab, I have also received a letter that has been agreed, signed with all of the local self-government units that support this reform from your island. I don't think we've presented it yet, or the regulation is in the works and it's going very quickly this and we're thinking about the national water council we present here in this House, the regulation itself, the regulation goes to the government and then formally determines not 20, but 21... based on the study, on the basis of the profession based on the amount and quantity of water delivered, which is 3 million kuna per water-serviced area we have made the most optimal network of water utility companies of almost 160 as many as there are currently in Croatia, there will be 21, there will be financial, professional, materially, technically ready and for all those requirements that we need... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to the water, three billion euros has until 2023 that each settlement of more than 50 equivalent inhabitants would have water or every settlement larger than 2000 inhabitants had to have a sewerage, we are talking about almost 300 purifiers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we have seven or nine municipal companies that have 5-10 to lose, there will be no more directors, there will be no more supervisory or administrative councils, but we will have companies that will be able to prepare and manage projects because if we do not do what we have to do as a commitment until 2023.After that, the RH will pay for the pens and we will have to make out of its own budget all the municipal infrastructure, 95% or even more and leaders of the units of local self-government but, more importantly, the profession itself will pay for the water communal economy in the public debate that we have made, at the presentations the reforms themselves have supported it and in it is certainly an idea, be sure to go, it is a done thing, it goes in the form of a regulation and we are already moving because they show projects already on the monthly or on the monthly still part of the project that we have, yesterday, a large part of the project, if we have had to hand-tores and we have a small amount of money, and we have a lot of money, the money, and we have a lot of money in the money, the money, and we have a lot. We got a little off the subject, but you asked for an answer. I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64811	Thank you. We have two replicas, Branka Juričev-Martinchev here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64812	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, Your Honor, I've been thinking all along, do you really think this reform is going to save or do you have to say there's going to be savings? In fact, people sitting in some places, four inspectors are now divided into four different ministries, they still have to sit somewhere, so we're going to have to rent some space again, so we're going to have to have four offices now. People have been going to the field by one vehicle, now they're also going to have to go to the field because it's fieldwork, so everyone's going to have to have their own vehicle. I've told you an example of an agricultural inspector for the Sibenik-Knin and Split-Dalmatia County, an employee who doesn't have a driver's license, who we're talking about when she's going to have to go to both counties, will you give her a driver? One tourist inspector for the entire Sibenik-Knin County area, he comes to a city, for example. in Vodice he comes by his car, that same day comes the inspector who will oversee the work in the store of his vehicle. Let go of the changes to the seal's memo, the tables, each of them must have some kind of dactylograph, a secretary who will do administrative work, who will sit there and receive applications. It's really not clear to me if you're really convinced there's going to be savings or if that's all you have to say without me saying changing so many laws, copying for all of us together here and so on. I'm a little surprised by your attitude.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64813	Replication response, Minister Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64814	The respected e-inspector of the 2010 programme, which in electronic form gives the possibility and assistance to the inspectors themselves, is the first thing. The second thing, once again, I will repeat all these inspections exist in my ministry as structural units, as living people who are doing control and who are only getting help or self-port with a number of employees who will work on the same jobs. The reorganisation of the control system itself, in accordance with the annual plan, according to the individual plans of each employee, will be a savings. You want me to tell you what's more, gps devices that will control how, where the vehicle is, where it is, where it is, and where it is. The application system will know whether or not the chief or chief of the service or the sector will know whether inspection surveillance has started or not as soon as the official mobile is clicked. This increases efficiency, and when we talk in savings, so I'm just saving you these two spaces I told you, I don't know the central 331 thousand kuna, the district unit Zagreb, 299 per month. He's our inspector, my 40 inspector who will be sitting with his colleagues who already have room for whether from the ministry or from the cities or from the state administration where we're sitting, a sit-down where two of them are sitting, and three or four of them will sit, but I'm still saying I only have 40 inspectors. I know the Ministry of Finance has already taken over and placed everything in its premises. It's saving and changing modes, there's no change in memos, there's no such cost on forms or anything like that, stamps, because we have it all, it exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64815	The second replica, Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64816	... I'm just curious if you're going to chip them, whether they're going to have gps tracking bracelets or they're going to have these collars, maybe they're still chipping because here's what you already know, and you're yourself in that ministry that it's mandatory for dogs and animals, so maybe we should chip them too. [[Speech is not enabled.]] And you know, it's sad when we're talking and what I answered about, it's stupid for me to talk about expertise and intricacies is that when I can't take responsibility anymore, and now you're the last person who said we did everything on December 5th, and we've instructed it, but you didn't work in the Parliament. Well, I don't understand at all how you're thinking of saying something like that, that we didn't do it. You sent us the materials. He said. [[Intruding Stazic: That's not what the minister said.]] Yeah, I'm sorry, he said, we'll get a phonogram. He said we prepared everything, and you didn't work. Have you ever read the Constitution, Prime Minister? Did you ever meet with God dear in your life? Well, we also had an extraordinary session of nonsense, you know, no big deal. That's where we came in, the plan went down, the Constitution, and we stayed here for a couple of hours and went home. And you're accusing us at the end now, so it would be all right technically, but you weren't doing it. You must apologize to the MPs, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Lecki, Vice-President and Secretary General here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64817	Answer, Minister Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64818	Dear fellow Sumrak, if anyone should apologize with all due respect to you, and I didn't think that my coming here to the assembly would go away, and that you wouldn't have any more toxic remarks, but I think an apology actually for fellow inspectors because comparing it to dogs and cats that are being chipped, I think it was incorrect for people who are doing their job responsibly. When I was talking about dates, I said when we adopted a set of these laws at the government and sent them into the procedure to this House. So in that part I didn't tell the truth, I said the date when it was in government and it was officially sent to this House. [[You said "but you didn't do it."]] [[I'm telling you not to throw.]] I wish I didn't have to explain it today, but if I could have done it on an extraordinary or already 12 months, then we wouldn't have caught on to this application 1.1. Are we going to interpret it as a political decision? ... With all this argument that we have stated that we want to make both a better and more efficient transparent system, yes, we stand behind it and bear responsibility. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Whether that makes the inspectors, the fellow inspectors happy or not, I think they're professionals doing their job. When I was talking about raising efficiency, I was talking about tracking work through GPS on vehicles that are being used and I don't see what's problematic about people who run services or sectors being able to control the real impact of these people on the ground. And you know very well how and in what way certain officers of the inspection services perhaps even that State Inspectorate you're praising today had both the number of reconnaissances and the number of controls and everything else, in what way. Or there was a combination of how it would work, especially if a personal car was used for official purposes and then ordered two kunas per km on computers. This part, I think, is going to raise efficiency anyway. All my inspections. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64819	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this set of laws that we'll vote on once the conditions are met. And now I'm interrupting the session. We'll continue tomorrow at 9:30, point 21. This is the final proposal of the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64820	Final proposal for a law amending the Law on official controls carried out in accordance with the rules on food, feed for animals, animal health and welfare, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 546. The debate on the text of the law is over. The Government submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 199 of the Treaty on the I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss the proposed amendments to the Government. Who's in? Do you mind? The abstentions? There isn't. Is there? There's a lot of abstentions. I find that with 101 votes for and 6 abstentions we have decided to discuss the amendments of the government. Minister Jakovina, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64821	I thank the esteemed vice president. The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall submit an amendment setting out the new day of entry into force of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64822	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Ivan Shuker, here you are on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64823	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I would only say on behalf of the HDZ Club that this argument and discussion on the amendment applies to all 17 amendments and I ask that it enters the minutes for the simple reason that something has now happened that has not happened in the long-standing practice of the work of this House of Commons. So, you all know that the government is by its decision of 29. The 11th abolished the State Inspectorate and, accordingly, it was necessary to bring a series of laws in line with that decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Later, the Government was to adopt regulations, etc. And the government, therefore, adopted this set of agricultural laws, which I think 16 or 17 adopted by emergency procedure on 5 December, to the Croatian Parliament. So, we were against urgency back then. However, it is very interesting that these laws, regardless of their urgency, were not discussed at the regular session until December 12th and were also not discussed at the extraordinary session. So we discussed them on the first working day of January 22nd. However, all 16 or 17 laws were required to enter into force on January 1st. The Croatian Democratic Community club was the last in the debate and warned of those provisions and suggested that the minister should practically change the law's entry into force. Meanwhile, as the club debated, the HDZ club quickly posted 17 amendments and sent them. However, it is very interesting that the government has subsequently adopted its amendments that are entirely identical to the SDP's amendments. Now, look at your colleagues and colleagues, why did I report for a debate on behalf of the club? Because this clearly shows how much the minister and the government has to do with this High House, how much they don't respect their own club, how much they don't respect the opposition MPs and how much they don't respect this High House. So are colleagues and colleagues what is obvious to everyone, if the law states that the law enters into force on 1 January 2014 and we discuss it on 22 January and if the opposition representative simply warns that it is a good thing. ... And you will also be silent today, and you will hear when you have made your decision to say that you have passed a law that enters January 1st. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No, I don't. So the government just showed how it works, how it works, and how the left doesn't know what it does to the right. So, not saying that through some of these provisions, and we had the opportunity to see in a set of economic laws yesterday some changes are being made that are not at all benign for Croatian citizens as well as here where just one word is changing, that it is no longer a state inspector but another inspector. However, colleagues and colleagues here will repeat what my colleague, Mlakar and I spoke on behalf of the club when we talked about these laws, which are the provisions of Article 13 and the provision of Article 14. So, the government was based on what adopted itself on 29.11. the resolution ministers had to propose laws and the government had to adopt regulations on the new formation of ministries. Because all these inspections that are scheduled to do work under these new laws must be made possible by a regulation to form them in a sound manner My fellow Members, this is the consequence of why the amendment is being brought. [[Intruder Zgrebec: We are discussing the amendment, not the law.]] I just want to elaborate broadly so that there is no confusion and that my colleagues and colleagues will not be harassed 17 times, so at first I asked that this debate be exactly the same for all 16 amendments as it goes. However, I am talking about the amendment and sticking to the agenda. I just want to say that this clearly shows how much the government holds up to all of you. Because if the parent club is from the minister, because he realizes he's the minister of HNS and the SDP has given amendments, so maybe this way, but SDP's minister and SDP's club are going to amend and then the other amendments come to the session. Another fellow Sobol, if I'm not mistaken, threw it to me when I said so we made an amendment and the amendment came, were still a hot colleague Dragovan signed them while we were answering the lines, that was Wednesday. On Thursday morning, the government is also on Thursday morning, but a completely identical amendment, so completely at the point, comma, the exact same government is bringing the amendment. So, it's best to say that the minister doesn't know that he had to do this in 2012, that we have a total vacuum as far as inspections are concerned, so no matter how much someone claims that they just don't work until the regulations have been passed, until the rules are passed, and these people are in the airlock. That is why I did mention Articles 13 and 14 because Articles 13 and 14 speak about the functioning of the State Inspectorate's services and officials at the moment until this law enters into force. And in the proposal of this law that we discussed and proposed by the Government, it was written to enter into force on 1.01. And this amendment says that it does not enter in 1.01 but at some other time, and what will happen in that other time tells you Articles 13, paragraphs 1 and 2 and Article 14. Therefore, I am fully in what is said in the subject of the amendments. And I repeat, colleagues and colleagues, so this is embarrassing, the government's relationship to this House of Commons, to parliamentary agents. This shows one ignorance, this shows one unprepared team more than the basis for all these laws and agricultural and economic reforms that are so pompously announced, reforms that have caused us to lose a credit rating among other things than the basis for this 9-month fiscal projection. So, since the 9th month, you know what's going to be done. But look, it hasn't been done yet. So, by the time the rule is passed, 10, 15 days will pass, and those inspectors will only know where they are and what they are doing at the end of February, and there is also a question of which funds they have been paid. And secondly, I'd like to see when those inspectors come to the field with which the ID will be legitimized. Whether with the State Inspectorate's ID or with a card that Minister Jakovina and Minister Vrdoljak still cannot sign because the laws have not come into force. But very interestingly, yesterday, the Deputy Minister of Economy told me that the government had passed the regulations. How could the government pass regulations on laws that were not adopted at this House of Commons? And yesterday, I think Mr. Leveric, when we discussed these laws, he told me that the government had passed the regulations. So how can the government pass regulations for a law that we didn't adopt? What if there were a bunch of amendments to these laws today, and let's say that the water inspector is not called the water inspector, but it's called the water inspector. And then how the government can pass the water inspector's regulation, and we've made a decision here that it's a water inspector. So, colleagues and colleagues, the result of this kind of work is your credit rating drop. And I think that Standard & Poor's sentence tells you best about the results of this government and that it's time for us all to imagine and that we in the Parliament simply no matter what political option we don't accept these things. 'Cause look, this credit rating drop is gonna pay everybody. The interest rates will pay from the smallest entrepreneur to the highest, will be paid by the Croatian state, paid by state-owned companies. And among other things, the reason for taking down your credit rating is this. Thank you very much, and I would like to ask the Vice President that this identical debate be based on all the amendments so that I no longer bother my colleagues and colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-22-0.u64824	As you asked in the debate, it will be. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. I'm giving for the adoption of the amendments to the government. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that with 77 votes in favour and 32 against an accepted amendment to the government. The SDP's Club of Representatives' amendment is identical, so we will not plead. And now I give the final text of the law to be adopted. I would like to warn you that the adoption of this law requires a majority of the votes of all MPs, i.e. 76 votes, in accordance with Article 252. Rules of Procedure. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that with 77 votes in favour and 32 against Law No. 546, along with the amendment.
