ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u79961	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. At its 32nd session, the Croatian Parliament's selection and appointment committee set out the following proposals for decisions. Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament is elected Krešimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u79962	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please state who's in favour of the proposed decision? Thank you. Does anyone mind? There isn't. Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find the proposed decision has been reached unanimously with 95 votes in favour. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u79963	Proposal for a decision on the selection of members and termination of the term of office of members of the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament is elected Shandor Juhas. Second, on 1st April 2014, a member of the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of the National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament ceases to act as Danes Soi for the rest of the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u79964	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please state who's in favour of the proposed decision? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed decision has been taken unanimously by 94 votes in favour. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u79965	Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament Đurđica Sumrak is hereby resolved. Second, for the member of the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership of the Croatian Parliament, Nada Murganić is elected.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u79966	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Would you like an explanation for your proposed decision? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed decision has been taken unanimously by 93 votes in favour. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u79967	Proposal for a decision on the resolution of members and the selection of members of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of Croatian Ante Jerolimov is dismissed. Secondly, Đurđica Sumrak is elected as a member of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u79968	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please state who's in favour of the proposed decision? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed decision has been taken unanimously by 94 votes in favour. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u79969	Proposal for a decision on the selection of members and termination of the mandate of the Committee on Regional Development and EU funds of the Croatian Parliament. First, Zvonko Milas is elected member of the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds of the Croatian Parliament. Second, on 22 March 2013, a member of the Committee on Regional Development and EU funds of the Croatian Parliament ceases to act on the termination of the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u79970	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please state who's in favour of the proposed decision? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed decision has been taken unanimously by 94 votes in favour. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u79971	Proposal for a decision on the resolution of members and the selection of members and termination of the term of office of members of the Committee on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament, Nada Murganic, is being resolved. Second, for members of the Committee on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament, Ante Jerolimov and Shandor Juhas are elected. Thirdly, on 1st April 2014, a member of the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting as Danes Soi for the rest of the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u79972	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please state who's in favour of the proposed decision? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed decision has been taken unanimously by 95 votes in favour. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, first of all I would like to ask for a notice on the Day of the Croatian Parliament on Sunday 1st June in time from 10.00 to 17:00 hours, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will be able to enter the Parliament building. It would be good if I could talk to the MPs, Open Door Day. I invite you to the Croatian Parliament on Sunday. Now we're gonna stop the session. I announce a follow-up on Wednesday 4 June 2014 with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Cooperatives Act. I'll see you at the Day of the Croatian Assembly. Thank you very much. - Elections, appointments and resolutions I ask the chairman of the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs, fellow Shim Lucin to submit a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u79974	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. At its 33rd session, the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament adopted the following proposals for decisions. Proposal for a decision on the election of the president and the termination of the Vice-President's term of office, the resolution of members and the selection of members of the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament. First, Igor Coleman is elected vice-president of the Croatian Parliament's European Affairs Committee. On two days of 1 July 2014, the office of Vice-President of the European Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament shall cease to act as Jozo Radoš for the termination of the term of office. Three, a member of the European Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament Igor Coleman is hereby authorised. Four, Sonja König is elected as a member of the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u79975	I'm opening a debate. Thank you very much. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please state who's in favour of the proposed decision? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? What's the score? I note that the proposed decision was taken unanimously by 106 votes in the text as proposed by the applicant. Number two decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u79976	Proposal for a decision on the selection of members and termination of the term of office of member of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament is elected Dr. Željko Jovanovic. Two, on 20 June 2014, a member of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting as Borislav Kovacic because of the termination of the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u79977	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposed decision. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I note that the proposed decision was taken unanimously by 104 votes in the text as proposed by the applicant. Number three decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u79978	Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament is elected Nada Čavlović Smiljanec. Secondly, on 15 July 2014, the member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament ceased to act on the termination of the parliamentary term of office of Josip Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u79979	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a statement on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed decision has been reached unanimously with 102 votes in favour. Decision number four.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u79980	Proposal for a decision on the selection of members and termination of the term of office of member of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament is elected Sasa Đuić. Second, on 19 June 2014, a member of the Board on Tourism of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting as Lidija Bagaric due to the termination of the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u79981	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposed decision. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I note that the proposed decision was made by a majority of votes, 100 votes in favour and one abstention in the text as proposed by the Committee. Number five decisions, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u79982	Thank you very much. Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Board of Justice of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee for Justice of the Croatian Parliament Sonja König is hereby authorised. Secondly, Vesna Sabolić is elected as a member of the Committee for Justice of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u79983	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposed decision. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 101 votes for the proposed decision in the text as you suggested. Six.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u79984	Proposal for a decision on the selection of members and termination of the term of office of members of the Committee on Labour, Pension System and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament. For a member of the Committee on Labour, Pension System and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament, Dr. Rajko Ostojić. Second, on 20 June 2014, a member of the Committee on Labour, Pension System and the Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting because of the termination of the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u79985	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposed decision. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? What's the score? I find that the proposed decision was taken unanimously with 101 votes as proposed by the board. Number seven of the motions for a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u79986	Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the president and the election of presidents, the election of members and the termination of the term of office of the member of the Committee on Health and Social Policy of the Croatian Parliament. President of the Health and Social Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament Dr. Romana Jerkovic. Secondly, for the chairman of the Health and Social Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament, Dr. Željko Jovanovic. Thirdly, for the member of the Committee on Health and Social Policy of the Croatian Parliament, Dr. Romana Jerkovic. Fourthly, on 16 May 2014, a member of the Health and Social Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting as Doctor Marijana Zivko because of the termination of the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u79987	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. Honorable representative Mirela Holly, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u79988	Dear President, here I really don't understand why my colleagues Romana Jerkovic and Dragica Zgrebec are getting rid of these presidential functions, given the fact that one and the other, as far as I know, have been very quality and successful in this function. The very fact that colleagues who acted as ministers had entered the House should not be sufficient reason to get rid of those who successfully did this job. This situation is so much worse since it's about colleagues. We are aware of the fact that in the Croatian Parliament women are a sub-represented sex, that there are only 25% of us, that women in Croatian political life do not act in a large number of responsible functions, and I do believe that this proposal is embarrassing and I ask my colleagues and colleagues to vote against such a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u79989	Thank you very much. No more interested or anything? There is. Dear colleague representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u79990	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's to what my colleague Holly was saying right now, an hour ago, we started discussing the Attorney General's Report on Gender Equality, and we all agree that the sub-representation of women is everywhere and so on. What are the criteria under which we now reduce committee presidents in favour of male colleagues? So that we have some criteria that we can evaluate as successful or unsuccessful then I think we can discuss. But just because the men's colleagues went back to the constituency bench to change the board presidents who so far were extremely good and did their job in quality, I don't think it's good. And I also call on all MPs and MPs to vote against this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u79991	Thank you, too, dear colleague. There are no more interested in the debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm giving the decision, please state who's in favour of the proposed decision? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed decision has been made by a majority of votes, 77 votes to... I declare 77 in favour, 18 against and five abstentions. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Thank you very much. Decision No. 8, Your Honor, the board president?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u79993	Thank you very much. Proposal for a Decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Committee on Health and Social Policy of the Croatian Parliament, a member of the Committee on Health and Social Policy of the Croatian Parliament, Sonja König, is hereby authorised. Secondly, Vesna Sabolić is elected for a member of the Committee on Health and Social Policy of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u79994	I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm asking you to make a statement on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find the proposed decision has been reached unanimously with 99 votes in favour. Proposal for Decision No. 9, Your Honor, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u79995	Thank you. Proposal for a Decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of member of the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament, a member of the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament is elected. Second, on 15 May 2014, a member of the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting on behalf of Josip Bencic for the termination of the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u79996	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am making a statement of the proposed decision. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed decision has been reached unanimously with 98 votes in favour. Decision No. 10, the Honorable Chairman of the Board?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u79997	Thank you. Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members and the selection of members and termination of the term of office of members of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament, a member of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament, Dr. Iron Lucky Flego. Secondly, for members of the Education, Science and Culture Committee of the Croatian Parliament, Domagoj Hajduković and Dr. Željko Jovanovic. Thirdly, on 19 June 2014, a member of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament ceased to act as Dr. Lidija Bagaric for stopping the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u79998	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. Vice President of the House, Honorable Representative Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u79999	Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, first of all, I would like to make it clear that it is not even in my mind to challenge the right of the SDP to resolve or appoint any member of its members to those places belonging to that party on any committee. I do, however, have a need to say that he's a professor. Flego, with his experience and especially with his principle, made an important contribution to the work of this committee. I'm sorry that his principle is precisely why you're solving it now. And by not wanting in any way to imply anything about a colleague who will be appointed to that committee, I need to say that the ocularity of professor. The flag on that board certainly must have a significant sense of feeling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u80000	Thank you, too. Any other interested? Yeah. Your Honor, Agent Iron Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u80001	So it doesn't turn out to be me being replaced, so I'm getting out of the board on my own terms, so it's not about any shifts or whatever. And please make it clear to everyone. And secondly, don't let anyone know that you got rid of me in the Education Committee because I'm going to sit in sessions that are of any importance or that I think are important to come in, talk, crawl my tongue, stand up for the right solutions just because I won't vote. Please accept this decision and I thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u80002	Thank you very much. Any other interested? There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am giving the committee a statement of the proposed decision. Who's in? Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find the proposed decision has been reached unanimously with 99 votes in favour. Number 11 is decided by the Honorable President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u80003	Thank you. The proposal for a decision on the resolution of the president and the election of the president of the Committee on Regional Development and EU funds of the Croatian Parliament is resolved by the chairman of the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds Dragica Zgrebec. Secondly, Dr Rajko Ostojic is elected president of the EU Regional Development and Fund Committee of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u80004	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a statement. Who's in favour of the proposed decision? Thank you. Who's against the proposed decision? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I note that the proposed decision was taken by majority of votes, 80 votes in favour, 17 votes against and 3 abstentions in the text as proposed by the committee. Number 12 of decisions by the Honorable Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u80005	Thank you very much. Proposal for a decision on the selection of members and termination of the term of office of members of the Board for the selection of appointments and administrative tasks of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. Nada Čavlović Smiljanec, Mario Moharic, are elected. Second, on 15 May 2014, the term of office of the Board for the selection of appointments and administrative tasks of the Croatian Parliament ceases to be held by Josip Bencic as a result of the termination of the parliamentary term. On 19 June 2014, a member of the Committee for the Selection of Apology and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting as Dr Lidija Bagaric for the termination of the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u80006	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am making a statement of the proposed decision. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed decision has been taken unanimously with 100 votes in favour. Last number 13, the Honorable chairman of the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u80007	Thank you very much. Proposal for a decision on the resolution of a member of the Committee on Human Rights and the right of the National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament, a member of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of the National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament from the ranks of the representative of the Catholic Church Marijana Petir shall be dismissed on a personal request.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u80008	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am making a statement of the proposed decision. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous, with 99 votes for the proposed decision. I take the opportunity to congratulate my colleagues and colleagues in the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I wish them successful work in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and Croatian institutions. And now we're going back to what we stopped before deciding on certain things. Let's go to choices, appointments and resolutions. I would like the Honorable Chairman of the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of fellow Member Shim Lucin to submit a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u80010	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At its 34th session, colleagues and colleagues of the Board of Elections, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament set out the next draft decisions. The real proposal for a decision on the selection of members and termination of the term of office of member of the EU Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament is the right one. First, Ivo Jelusic is elected member of the EU's Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament. Second, on 10 July 2014, a member of the EU Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament ceases to act as Igor Radenovic for his term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u80011	I'm opening a debate. There's no one to discuss. I'm closing the debate. Please state who's in favour of the motion for a decision? Thank you. Who's against the proposal? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed decision was made by 92 votes in favour, unanimously. Proposed Decision No 2, the Honored President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u80012	Proposal for a decision on the selection of members and termination of the term of office of members of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament is elected Giovanni Sponza. Second, on 10 July 2014, a member of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting as Igor Radjanovic for his term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u80013	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please make a statement. Who's in favour of the proposed decision? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 91 votes, we have made the proposed decision on the text as proposed by the Proposer. Number three decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u80014	Thank you very much. Proposal for a decision on the selection of members and termination of the term of office of members of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament. First, Alen Prelec is elected as a member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament. On 10 July 2014, the member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament ceased to act as Igor Radenovic for the term of office of the representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u80015	I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please make a statement. Who's in favour of the proposed decision? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 92 votes, we have made the proposed decision in the text as proposed by the Committee. Number four decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u80016	Thank you. Proposal for a decision on the election of president and termination of the term of office of president of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament. Ivo Jelusic is elected president of the Croatian Parliament's Committee on Economy. Second, on 10 July 2014, the duty of termination, excuse me, the chairman of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting as Igor Radjanovic for holding the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u80017	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no one to discuss it. I'm closing the debate. Please make a statement. Who's in favour of the proposed decision? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 91 votes for the proposed decision as proposed by the board. Decision number five, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u80018	Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the Vice-President and the election of the Vice-President and the resolution of the member and election of a member of the Croatian Committee outside the Croatian Parliament. First, the president of the Croatian Committee for Croatians outside the Croatian Parliament Ivo Jelušić, secondly, shall be elected to the Vice-President of the Committee for Croatians outside the Croatian Parliament Ivana Posavec Krivec, thirdly, a member of the Committee on Croatians outside the Croatian Parliament Ivan Posavec Krivec and fourthly, a member of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia is elected Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u80019	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please plead. Who's in favour of the proposed decision? Thank you very much. Does anyone mind? Maybe a abstention? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 90 votes, we have made the proposed decision in the text as proposed by the Committee. Number six decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u80020	Proposal for a decision on the discharge of the deputy member and the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. First, the deputy member of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development from the ranks of MP Igor Radinovic, secondly, is resolved as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development of the Order of Representatives, is named Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u80021	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 89 votes, we have made the proposed decision as proposed by the board. Decision number seven, last on my record.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u80022	Proposal for a decision on the appointment of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the State Commission for the assessment of damages from natural disasters. First, as a member of the State Commission for the Assessment of damages from the elemental accidents from the ranks of MPs, Shandor Juhas, second, the duty of a member of the State's Commission for the Assessment of damages from the elementary disasters of the ranks of MPs has ceased to behave on the day of 01 April 2014 for the rest of the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-30-0.u80023	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please make a statement. Who's in favour of the proposed decision? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed decision has been reached unanimously with 90 votes in the text as proposed by the Committee. Dear colleagues and esteemed colleagues, before I conclude the session, here are a few notices that I consider necessary. The constitutional break takes place, starting on 15.07., it is known to you for the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. And please, all MPs will be given approval, round tables will be held. I am now announcing that in two days' time here in Parliament, the state of EU and US negotiations will be discussed within the European Affairs Committee, so I would like to ask who is able to be outside the committee to be there. The Committee will then also have a hearing on European affairs with a member of the European Commission here on the 28th month. Secondly, a delegation of congressmen of the American Congress is coming to the Croatian Parliament, also a fellow vice president of the House will have talks and a round table with representatives of the American Congress economy. Of course, political affairs are waiting for you in the local community with citizens, and I would also like to ask for anyone to be at the Storm celebration, military redistribution action 5.8. And in the end, I have to close the session. I am concluding the 13th session of the Croatian Parliament. I invite you to part with a glass of champagne here in front of the Hall of the Croatian Parliament. I want a good time and a good job. Thank you very much. Session completed at 13.59 p.m. Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues continue at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament, the 13th session. On the agenda - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Cooperatives Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 665 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings, and the amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the final draft law was carried out by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Economy. You received a report from these working bodies. Does the Government's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Deputy Minister of Entrepreneurship and crafts Drazen Pros. Here you go, Deputy.
