ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u64099	I would like to thank the esteemed president, dear colleagues and colleagues. So what happened to us this morning and what happened to us last Friday, last week was just a follow-up story that began with the adoption of the Law on HRT in the summer of 2012. When the political consensus was met, when it did not respond to the European Commission's opinion, when the HDZ Club was repeatedly called for irregularities, when the chief director was appointed with the Pharaohic powers. A complete political cleanup on HRT followed, 4 people were replaced in the first wave. Cancellations followed, requests from the Supervisory Board for the replacement of the chief director, which the majority of the parliament's members refused to the Kukuriku coalition. It has not even responded to the Commission's finding of conflict of interest which has found that the Director-General is in conflict of interest and runs a public information house that should be a reflection of the opinions and attitudes of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are paying it. All that time since April 2012 they are listed on the agenda of the 2011 Programme Council's report and the Supervisory Board for 2011. Both reports are discussed on the home board for the media, have opinions of the Government and are persistently held at the end of the agenda just so the Director-General doesn't have to come here and face the Croatian Parliament who has the right to ask him what he's doing on HRT, in which way he means to solve it and make it impossible for us to discuss the reports. Meanwhile, in December and January, reports came to the Croatian Parliament for 2012 which, according to the stenogram of the session that began on 22nd January, did not explicitly specify what was seen from the stenogram that they would be included in the agenda and then, by some miracle, the item of the agenda with Reports 2011 changed their name and name and became one point under a, b, c and d with the fact that from c to e Government was not able to deliver an opinion to the Croatian Parliament in almost two months. I guess this Bundesliga and the rules of Bundesliga play where I guess the Croatian Parliament is beginning to be treated as a reception office and as some kind of trade and ministers in the government are having fun sharing the interest spheres of what's left in the Republic of Croatia, I guess they're not able to give an opinion about one if you really want public companies in the Republic who only have income from a subscription over a billion kuna, I guess they don't care. They do not care because the information program favors, defends, protects, and refutes their interests in the whole aid of the principal because the unfavourable documentary films are removed, because the polemic emissions where different opinions can be faced are eliminated, so similar to those in the IT service are increased coefficients. Certainly not colleagues and colleagues because of the increase in ratings because we know that it is constantly falling, but obviously because of fulfilling the special tasks they receive from the office and the principal director. President-in-Office of the Parliament, we ask that today's discussions of the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council's 2011 Reports, as well as the second item of the agenda, may be so that the Director has the opportunity to arrive at the Croatian Parliament, there is no need to postpone this in accordance with this explanation that you have given, and when the Government's opinion comes one day it will probably be in accordance with the Bundesliga rules, we will then be able to continue to discuss the 2012 and 2013 reports. We think that it would be okay, that this would be consistent with the December Croatian Parliament agenda, which is so, the points have been changed in a strange way and that this would be much more effective for the Croatian public and Croatian citizens as well as for improving the situation on HRT which is in total collapse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u64100	Thank you, too. I think it would be correct now to hear what I said before the beginning and now. Please, nice. So, I repeat, the Presidency of the Parliament before the beginning of the 12th session of the Croatian Parliament i.e., we have agreed that in this agenda, as you have received it, there will be a debate on the reports of the third week of the session. That's what we respected. Therefore, the parent body of the Croatian Parliament yesterday requested in accordance with the tradition or practice of the parliamentary practice of the Croatian Parliament to want to get and wait for the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on all topics that are on, please allow me to finish, I really did not interrupt you and I had reason, so let me speak from this place what I think. Therefore, there is no hiding nor any strange agenda. It was completely public, clear and unequivocally respecting the parliamentary practice of this assembly, I respected the position of the home working body to wait with the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the whole of the problem. How we're going to discuss whether or not we can always decide that. We had decided together and in the presidency, Your Honor, that was agreed. So, on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, respected representative Branko Vuksic. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u64101	If he can, I ask you nicely for the truth and for the dignity of this high House.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u64102	He can't, he can't. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u64103	The presidency said the HDZ club would not accept a united debate over HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u64104	I'm not mad, but then we were in different sessions. Here you are, dear representative Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u64105	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I must express my satisfaction that the President of the Parliament respected the comments made by the parent board, the Committee on Information, Information and Media and when we spoke yesterday, contacted his office and postponed three points that were not discussed in the Government and we fully agree. However, there was one thing, in 2012 and 2013, there was no debate on HRT. There was no debate, although we know that Croatian relations are not good, that HRT does not perform its public function and that it can be debated and seas at the plenary session on HRT. It must be known that journalists, not Goran Radman, dogs are the guardians of democracy. Just remember how much we and the principal directors and executive directors have changed, journalists have stayed and they will remain in Prisavlje, but the principals have always changed because of their dissatisfaction with their work. But we still have to say "eppur you're flies", it's still moving. Remember the biggest remarks that were made on HRT, that it's a copyist, to look at what's in the morning in the paper and then in the evening they have these topics. Now I've heard people are dissatisfied when HRT discovers topics like the Shegon, like Merzel and when it reacts a bit, when, say, a broken subject when it calls, at noon one person, at night another, it's very fast. They say, imagine they managed to invite Mrs. Merzel to the Dnevnik already, the wrong treatment, the treatment of the star, it's wrong, and it's not wrong timing. And here from this pay phone you should say that you should keep HRT from Radman, the former, someone present, someone future, not Radman from the press because they were never those journalists who abused their power. HRT should be kept from the powerful, not the power of the HRT as it often seems. So shows like the case was yesterday, a very important topic about the Labour Law does not appear in the Croatian daily hrt, in the news of the most important because probably some powerful people think it is not an important topic for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It is not good to push problems on Prisavlje under the carpet, because there was no debate about working in HRT for 2011 it means that there was no conversation here. I also heard Mr. Radman didn't accept to come, to explain because he wasn't responsible for 2011. It is clear that he is not responsible, but all ministers, all who submit reports for the period of past governments, are not responsible or are not responsible for the period of some other directors, but still have to submit reports. That is why I call on the government to discuss the HRT report at this week's session so that we can discuss the Committee next week, Monday or Tuesday, and that the President of the Parliament can put the remaining reports on the agenda. The Assembly must be a guarantee of independence, professionalism and journalistic freedom on HRT. We are not here to edit the programme, but we are to debate and protect the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. If it is not the Croatian Parliament, then who is it that will protect? And now there's another question that we've already asked in other reports. How much does it make sense in 2014 to discuss the 2011 problems, i.e. the 2011 reports? And the people of Prisavia did not take advantage of the opportunity to present their views here on this political stage and to address the citizens of the Republic of Croatia about what and how they will work on HRT, so that the bitter taste remains, the poor law passed on to HRT, and I agree with counterpart Mesic, the Pharaohic powers with which the chief director cannot be used.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u64106	Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, on behalf of the HDSSB club. And I'm sorry, it is. It was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u64107	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Articles 246 and 247 have been injured. Your Honor, this change took place late yesterday afternoon and yesterday night. Reports on 2011 were included on the agenda on 19 April 2012. It is true that the board has requested that those points be removed which do not have the government's opinion. These have, they're on the agenda, they've been included and we're looking for a debate, President of the Parliament. It is a public Croatian radio television with over 3,000 employees, only from a fee over a billion revenues. We're looking for a discussion on this, and that's how the board unanimously concluded it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u64108	Thank you very much. Your Honor, you must read Article 228. Rules of Procedure, 228, and what you claim you have failed to say and object in determining the agenda. In accordance with Article 228, I acted before you and in front of the Croatian public it is possible and necessary because we have already grouped topics, it is practical, useful and I would say a lot easier to decide when the topic is grouped. Thank you very much. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic on behalf of the HDSSB club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u64109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. I was very looking forward to today's agenda on which the first points of that agenda were the report of the Programme Council, the Supervisory Board, so the report on the work of HTV. But this morning on the news, I hear there will be a whole other point, and by the way, I found out that Mr. Chief Director of HTV is not in Zagreb, and he wouldn't be there if it was this point. Why have these points been delayed? Because the Croatian government did not consider the report and gave its opinion although these reports are available to the Croatian government for two months. What does that mean? Maybe that kind of behavior, that kind of work has more meaning. The first is the disrespect of the Croatian Parliament, so the Croatian Parliament puts this item on the agenda, and the government did not give its opinion on the material. So it is a direct disrespect of the president, the presidency and all representatives of the Croatian Parliament by the government of the Republic of Croatia. or it's something else, and it's actually a bit of a bump in the agenda, so we just put it on the agenda, and we didn't know or didn't predict that the government wasn't discussing these points of the agenda and gave its opinion. Why was I looking forward to this debate and this agenda point? So for several reasons, for reasons that the predecessors have already talked about, but too many problems have accumulated on HTV starting with what has already been said shift cleaners, cancellations, starting with the fact that the new ones paying the TV fee are being spent and used and thrown into the wind, by ordering external co-workers to produce documentary shows, or for example. For 12 shows, pay 12 million kuna to an external associate, although there is a Documentary Programme Redaction and on HTV, and it works very successfully. Furthermore, it is interesting how strange the ways of the Lord are, as now proposed for a member of the Supervisory Board by someone who was banned from the HRT a few years ago. Shutting down correspondence between them and the one in Slavonski Brod is also a subject I thought to discuss and argued about. About putting numbers in the parking spaces on TV, how much that costs, it's a separate story. The footage from Vukovar 18th November who saw him even though the HTV team was on site, we didn't see exactly what happened. Has anyone seen the clean footage and what's going on, the chronology and everything? No, I don't. Why has it never been shown? Furthermore, where they go or go or why they stay the people that the principal brought in and was unhappy with them, but they remained on HTV, he did not return them to the previous state or position they were in. She piled up when the headmaster and his listeners brought her. There is one change of public opinion, a change of one form of thinking in the Republic of Croatia through the HTV programme that every morning we have Lenin, Stalin, Trotsky, Rivera and I don't know either. So look at the TV calendar every morning. The first thing that happened in the Soviet Union we have a date you miss all you want and that's first. It never was. Now we know who Rivera is, who received Trotsky in Mexico, I have the material to talk about these topics, but unfortunately the biggest suspicion is that this agenda will be changed so that these things I talked about and must be told loudly and loudly to the Croatian people and Croatian citizens, they will arrive late at 7:00 p.m. at 7:00 p.m. when there is no TV transmission. That would be the third suspect.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u64110	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u64111	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u64112	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u64113	Your Honor, Mr. President. You replied to our complaint by referring to us to read the provisions of this new bright Rules of Procedure, so I replied to tell you in Article 228 of that Rules of Procedure in paragraph 2 "The order of discussion of agenda points does not, as a rule, change in the current week of the session" Allow me, would you excuse my objection for me? [[Intruder: Continue reading.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u64114	I will, stop. I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u64115	Then go ahead, you talk and then I don't have to answer for a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u64116	You got it. Thank you very much. "At the beginning of each working session, the president of the parliament will, as a rule, announce what points of the agenda will be discussed that day. During the session, it may exceptionally alter the order of discussion or decision if there are no reports by the competent working authorities, the proposing or the Government for each item of the agenda. That's the whole thing I want to talk about. And there's one more thing I want to say when I've already received word from my colleague, Mlakar, that the HDZ club would have been presented at the Parliament Presidency and that he voted for this diary with points A, B, C and D and could have wanted to file a written complaint because they knew the Rules of Procedure and we didn't do anything outside of it. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u64117	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, on Friday, when you announced to the representatives in the Croatian Parliament what the first item of the agenda would be today you knew well that you did not have the government's opinion, and the government was on Thursday. Therefore, you deceived her at that time. The other thing is, unfortunately, I have to tell you the truth. On the proposal of MPs and Vice-President Stazic, so that you could discuss all reports in a united manner clearly then as a representative of the HDZ club at the presidency, he said that we cannot accept a united debate regarding HRT precisely because the reports refer to one law that was passed by consensus during HDZ, and the second is the report 2012. So let's not say some things that are simply not what they are because even in madness, we can't accept a united debate about HRT and I said that if I'm not mistaken, because it was about how the session is going to go quickly. And fellow Stazic suggested, for example, we can discuss the HRT report unitedly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u64118	We heard everything. Thank you very much. So, I'll do it again. If you wanted to, you should have, and you used to object to the agenda. You didn't do it. Now you have reasons to explain. You have another breach of the Rules of Procedure on what? To Shuker, okay. [[Intruder: On Shuker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u64119	I don't know if you noticed, Mr. President, that you took my word for it?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u64120	No, you gave it to me. You said go ahead. Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u64121	I gave you my word? Then read the Rules of Procedure. I can't, and I can't give a word. But if you're going to give me that authority, I thank you for that. So you interrupted me by not letting me explain to you to the end our position on why we claim that you hurt the Rules of Procedure. As a rule of the provision means that you should adhere to it except exceptionally, and it is exceptional that you could have some particularly justified reasons to change the established agenda and decide today something different from what was decided on Friday. But on Friday, supplementing the agenda when you did not add it to these points that we are asking for individual debate, you knew that there was no government opinion that has now become the reason why you are delaying the debate on this agenda point. This is why we claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured and that you abuse your powers in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u64122	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, and you dropped the important fact that I'm referring to, and she's from yesterday. So, to review the position of the competent working body of the Croatian Parliament. ... Yes, thank you very much. [[You can't hear it.]] Okay. We've completed our discussion in clubs and a debate on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please first, we'll read it one more time. Yes, thank you very much. - A report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds secured in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012 for the needs of national minorities The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted a report on the basis of Article 37. Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. You've received a proposal for a report. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received a report from this working body at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Minister Arsen Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68468	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This is the 2012 report. My assessment is that it will be something more interesting for 2013. Therefore, the 2012 report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the spending of funds provided for the needs of national minorities shows in the national budget in most areas by satisfying the progress made in the exercise of the rights of members of national minorities provided by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. As in the previous reporting period and during 2012, there may be insufficient progress in the scope of the language and letter of national minorities and representation of national minorities in state administration bodies. The decision to ban new employment in December 2009 remains in force, which generally resulted in a smaller number of new employment in state administration authorities during 2012 and a smaller number of newly employed members of national minorities. Regarding the area of official and public use of the language and letters of national minorities, despite the fact that the guidance for the consistent implementation of the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia was not adopted on 1 March 2012. The reason was the delay in processing and publishing the official results of the 2011 census. Data on the population according to nationalities by cities, municipalities, settlements, which are relevant for determining which local units are obliged to regulate in their statutes the use of minority language and letters were published only at the end of the year. So, December 17th, 2012. In the area of education and education in the language and letter of national minorities and during 2012, a high degree of implementation of the Constitutional Law has been ensured. A successful education of students in the teaching performed in general in the language and letter of the national minority model A, while more and more students were involved in learning the language and culture of national minorities, model C. In the school year 2011/2012. and 2012/2013. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports has approved the formation of classes according to model C in the added 7 primary schools. Special efforts have been made to raise and educate members of the Roma national minority. For children members of the Roma national minority, continued inclusion in pre-school education programmes is ensured in order to bridge the gap between the socio-economic situation in which children members of the Roma national minority live and opportunities for their successful integration during compulsory primary education. Over the past six years, there has been a steady increase in Roma children's coverage through primary education. In the case of Roma secondary education, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports provides significant funding for scholarships, home accommodation, additional activities, promo travel, school supervisor's work, tuition and so on and funds are provided for scholarships to all students of Roma national minorities who are wanted. The Government of the Republic of Croatia will continue to ensure consistent application of the Education Act in the language and letter of national minorities, including consistent application of international agreements and their implementing acts. To this end, the competent authorities of the state administration will also determine the necessary adjustments to mandatory state graduation exams and external education procedures in the secondary and primary schools of national minorities and will work on optimising the network of pre-school and school institutions in minority languages. During 2012, positive progress has been made in achieving the rights of national minorities to access the media in order to increase the quality of emissions intended for national minorities. The Regulation on the Fund for the Promotion of pluralism and diversity of electronic media provides for the possibility of awarding additional points for emissions intended to preserve the language of members of the national minority and fully produced in the language of members of the national minority. During 2012, the programmes of associations and institutions of national minorities through the National Minorities Council were also financed by significant funds. The Council, however, concluded that there is still a certain degree of misunderstanding of the methodology of monitoring the implementation of NGOs programme and national minority institutions, particularly in the part of the submission of financial reports, and recommends that they continue with the thematic education of the associations on the use of budgets. Of the significant activities in 2012 in the field of representation of members of national minorities in the representative and executive bodies of local and regional self-government units, the adoption of a new Law on Local Elections should be highlighted. Following a new law on ensuring representation of representatives of national minorities in the representative and executive body of the unit, the number of additional elections will be significantly reduced, resulting in a significant reduction in unit costs for the conduct of the election. The additional elections for representatives of national minorities in representative bodies will only be called in exceptional cases where there is no appropriate representation of national minorities in the representative body in any of the prescribed ways, or if no one is running from representatives of national minorities. In addition, with regard to ensuring the representation of national minorities in the executive body, the law found that the units exercise the right to deputy municipal chief, mayor or mayor from the ranks of members of national minorities and to be elected directly in the elections at the same time and in the same procedure as the municipal chief, mayor or mayor. The elected deputy is a national minority and there is no need to conduct the additional elections. In view of the fact that, in the previous period in individual units, especially those of poorer economic development, the work and programmes of councils and representatives of national minorities are insufficiently financed by a positive assessment in 2012 of the financing of their programmes through State budget funds. The conditions for the financing of councils and representatives were their legal personality, which was obtained by enrolment in the register. Successfully implemented funding also contributed to the adoption in March 2012 of the amendment and addition of the Law on the Registration of Councils of Coordination of National Minority Representatives Councils, which significantly simplified and accelerated the registration procedure in the register. The implementation of the National Programme for Roma and the Decade of Action for Roma Inclusion 2005-2015 during the reporting period has made further progress in the fields of education, health, employment and Roma housing. The activities aimed at making Roma children more involved in the education system, improving health and health protection of the Roma population, increasing employment of Roma and Roma, improving housing conditions as well as implementing other measures aimed at addressing the difficulties encountered by the Roma national minority. Special attention was paid to the preservation of Roma culture, traditions, languages and customs. In particular, activities in the area of further improving the socio-economic situation of the Roma are highlighted. At its meeting on 29 November 2012, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a National Strategy for Roma Inclusion for the period from 2013 to 2020, with which the basic strategic document of the Republic of Croatia for the integration of members of the Roma national minority is aligned with a statement by the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the EU Committee on National Strategies and Integration of the Roma by 2020. The 1-year presidency of the Republic of Croatia should also be set aside for a decade for Roma inclusion, which began on 1 July 2012. Among the priorities of the Croatian Presidency were the integration of decades for the inclusion of Roma and the EU framework, the integration of the main successes of decades in education with EU education policy and the position of Roma language, the integration of the historical experience of Roma in Europe by promoting tolerance, Roma non-discrimination and young Roma in action for tolerance and recognition. Further progress has been made in 2012 in the area of developing tolerance towards diversity and combating discrimination. Many held seminars, round tables and consultations contributed to informing members of national minorities as well as the general public, as well as promoting tolerance and combating discrimination. In the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, the Government of the Republic of Croatia took measures and actions in 2012 to make fuller exercise of the rights of members of national minorities and to establish satisfactory progress in most areas. The improvement of the implementation of the Constitutional Law has contributed to the implementation of the measures set out in the Constitutional Law Action Plan, which was implemented in 2012 at a high percentage, 87.5%. In the coming period, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will continue to implement the Constitutional Law in all areas and will in particular step up implementation in those areas in which activities have not been carried out for objective reasons during 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68469	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. There is one replica, respected representative of Dragan Montenegro.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68470	Thank you. Well, Mr. Minister, here's what you said in your statement that the government advocated the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in 2012 so I'm interested in one question, since you didn't mention it here. Why is Article 6? In 2012 the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities did not apply to acquired rights of certain national minorities, such as the Italian, Hungarian and Serbian national minorities, which refers to the appointment of senior officials in the Ministry of Interior, Justice, Culture and Education, which the Constitutional Court said were not anti-constitutional rights, so that certain members of the national minority are guaranteed rights under the International Agreements and Bilateral Agreements signed by the Republic of Croatia and this is specifically about the letter of intent on ending the peace reintegration that all governments have so far respected. Therefore, both the HDZ Governments and the SDP Government are extremely important things and I am interested in why the Government has done nothing on this matter or why it has not implemented Article 6 of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68471	Replication response, Honored Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68472	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, if I recall correctly and I seem to remember the same question in writing you asked the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia who answered your question, so I have nothing to add to that answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68473	Thank you very much. Do you? On behalf of the Committee on Human Rights of the Croatian Parliament, the respected representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68474	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities discussed the report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the cost of funds secured in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012. The Committee considered this report as a parent working body in accordance with Article 79. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and it has been assessed that the report is exhaustive and that, on the basis of the information presented, a realistic picture can be obtained of how it was implemented by the Constitutional Law, i.e. how far in the Republic of Croatia during 2012 the rights of national minorities guaranteed by law. In which areas a satisfactory progress has been made and where it is not and where the focus should be on the activities of competent institutions in the next period. However, the opinion is expressed that there are insufficient reasons for insufficient progress in the exercise of certain rights of national minorities, which is an important assumption for taking more effective measures in the next period. The members of the board agreed with the report that during 2012, despite the problems encountered by the Croatian Society in general, significant efforts have been made to implement the Constitutional Law on the Rights of the National Minority, and this is seen as being provided in the State budget for the needs of national minorities, as well as the activities that the Government and other state bodies are in order to implement it. The debate found that the report shows that, as in earlier years, the most was done in the areas of education and education in the language and letter of national minorities, the achievement of the cultural autonomy of national minorities, religious rights, etc. However, as in earlier years, it has been pointed out that there is no satisfactory progress in the areas of the use of language and letter of national minorities, representation of members of national minorities in the bodies of state and local administrations, and in judicial bodies such as the access of national minorities to the means of public communications and participation of members of the national minority in life and the management of local affairs. So one important, one important, important segment for the cultural autonomy of national minorities. When it comes to education and education in the language and letter of the national minority, it is pointed out that the success of the implementation of the Constitutional Law in this part shows that the total number of children has been increased in all three models of education and education, from the activities needed at the end of the next period, it is particularly indicated that the intensification of the process of adopting or completing the teaching plans and programmes for all the models created in the language and letter of the national minority, and the production and approval of textbooks still missing for this course, the adjustment of the mandatory examinations of the state graduation and the completion of the procedure of fixing the statutes, etc. Reregistering several schools, meaning all new schools in language and letter of national minorities. After a comprehensive debate was held, the Committee decided by majority vote, 9 for 1 abstention, to present to the Croatian Parliament the next conclusion. A report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law and the rights of national minorities and the spending of funds secured in the State budget for 2012 is hereby adopted for the needs of national minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68475	Thank you, too, Mr. President-in-Office of the Board. I'm opening a debate. In the debate, we are going after the Clubs of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the Social Democratic Party Club and the respected representative Melita Mulic. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68476	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, and here is the honourable minister, colleague and colleague. This is the ninth-largest report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in a year in which it has been marked ten years since the adoption of the Constitutional Law, which was our obligation in accordance with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU, although I am as deeply convinced as we are of the SDP Club that this is our civilization achievement. If you just look at the opening part of this report, it is stated that the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities has contributed to the implementation of the measures set out in the 2012 Constitutional Law Action Plan. The implementation of measures under the Action Plan is unfortunately not under discussion by the Croatian Parliament. It is only discussed on the parent board on the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities, and even this report on the Action Plan is actually more illustrating than the report itself, therefore I also consider it necessary to point out that the action plan was adopted at the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and was held on 8 April 2011 and was adopted among other things as an obligation to fulfil the obligations of the Republic of Croatia in Chapter 23 and to join the EU. So she brought it in, the HDZ government, and she brought it in unanimously. What is the primary objective is to further improve, i.e. to intensify the implementation of the Constitutional Law, especially in areas where shortcomings have been observed. These are, in accordance with the report, the use of the letter and language of national minorities and the employment of members of the national minority authorities. And the activities in these two areas have not resulted in the desired effects. As we all know what Article 12 says. The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, which is that, equally to the official use of the language and the letter, is implemented in the field of the unit of local self-government where they make up at least one third of the population of that unit of local self-government or if this is prescribed by international contracts or by the Statute of a unit of local self-government. At a time when, as this report for 2012, I was already preparing for this debate last year on behalf of the Croatian Parliament, and because of all the allegations that were in the public discourse in the Republic of Croatia about the threshold of minorities who are entitled to use the language of minority and letter, I sent an inquiry to all parliaments that are members of the Council of Europe and through the Croatian Parliament, i.e. the library of the Croatian Parliament, i.e. I received a reply from 31 representative and representative bodies of EU Member States and Member States of the EU Council, to ensure that Croatia actually has one of the lowest thresholds for the use of the official language and letter. So I would only single out for the purposes of this debate some examples that are in our neighbourhood, such as neighbouring Hungary, which has a 25% threshold, while in Austria, for example, in Korusko, Gradisto and Styria where the Croatian national minority lives, there is a provision in the national constitution, or in legislation that the Croatian language will be applied equally to German independently of the percentage, or in the monitored representation if Croats live there as a national minority. The Czech Republic needs a threshold of only 10% of the population of a local self-government unit to declare themselves to members of a national minority and therefore streets and public places and state institutions are marked by the language of that minority. In Macedonia, it takes 20%, Romania also 20%, and in some other examples of Western civilizations such as Wells in the UK or Frisia in the Netherlands, I don't think there's a need to speak. The minister also referred to the only document on the basis of which the obligation to use the language and the letter was established, which is the census and reminded us that we actually received these data on 17 December 2012. Therefore, targeted supervision in 2012 and the statutes of units of local self-government which is very conditional on the publication of the census results has not been carried out, has been postponed for the second half of last year, but I recall that the units of local self-government had the duty to comply with their statutes with the Constitutional Law and the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities within 6 months. What is equally concerned by this report is the finding of the Council for National Minorities, which is that the problem of unequal constitutional regulation of the right of official public use of minority language and letter, i.e. non-compliance or non-compliant in an unsuitable way, is highlighted. The fact is that the number of proceedings before the administrative bodies of the self-government units in which the language and letter of the national minority were used was kept at an extremely low level during 2012, that no case of use of the minority language was recorded in the procedures conducted by the administrations of the state administrations in the county and that members of national minorities did not reach out for the application of that right, although they almost regularly reject it, particularly in judicial proceedings. I can only express hope that this is the result of good integration of Croatian society, not an indication of the assimilation of national minorities in Croatian society. The report alone has 18 chapters, i.e. chapters, and I think it is necessary to put an emphasis on some other things in a report that can be significantly more satisfying, which is actually an area of education and education in the language and letter of national minorities where a high degree of implementation of the Constitutional Law has been achieved. Language is an essential component of identity, and identity is a product of literature and, therefore, as a society, we must make an effort to preserve culture, literature, the history of minority identity, which has involved their contribution to the development of the culture of Croatian society and state because if we do not do so then we are also a society at a loss and therefore we actually welcome the fact that in the past year the number of members of national minorities who are educated by one of the models offered, that is, teaching programmes at different levels of education, which is provided by the Ministry of Science. It is clear from the report that the best organised in this regard is the Czech Republic, Hungary, Serbia and Italy's national minority, but thanks to the efforts of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and in the Roma national minority, progress has been recorded, and especially thanks to the programmes of scholarship of all members of the Roma population involved in secondary and higher education. The preschool programme for Roma children is unnecessary, gives good results and would have to be required for all Roma children to prepare for inclusion in the education system. Unfortunately, the number of Roma children leaving primary education is still too high in the Republic of Croatia. When accessing the means of public communication, we can agree with the assessment of the advice for national minorities that the overall activities and content related to national minorities are still not sufficiently media-represented and that the use of minority languages should be increased and greater representation of minority themes in HRT and Croatian radio programmes. I would add here that minority themes should not be reduced to the display of cultural amateurism and the preservation of traditional features because their media ghettoisation has even more harmful effects. Although it speaks in favour of pluralism of the media in the Republic of Croatia, the fact that minority topics are much more representative in individual local media than in public service, it may also talk about insufficient public service fulfillment, so if you want to receive state support. One of the areas where progress is not recorded and there are no desired effects is employment in the authorities of the state administration. The decision to ban employment is still in force since December 2009 and when you look at the total number of state administration bodies regardless of whether they are a minority or not, it fell from 2011 to 2012, and the number of minorities fell further so that it fell from 3.41 to 3.37, and we know that our goal is to have a minimum of 5% of the employees of national smaller members in state administration bodies because of course in local self-government units. Similarly, in judicial bodies, the number of members of national minorities is reduced with the only positive trend in the State's Attorney's Office. Despite the fact that a public tender for employment in the state service states that members of national minorities have the right to call for an advantage in employment on the basis of Article 22. The constitutional law, without the obligation to provide evidence of nationality, is a percentage of minority members permanently low, and on the state of society is the best and speaks of the Council for National Minorities which received representations from members of national minorities in 2012 which point out that they cannot be obtained in the profession for reasons of discrimination under national origin or discrimination on political conviction even though they are in competitions and are calling for Article 22. Constitutional law. If you remember a report on the occurrences of discrimination then we know that in the Republic of Croatia the most common discrimination is gender or gender and then by national or ethnicity. Another important fact is that this report relates to the first half of the year of the one-year RH presidency for decades to Roma inclusion from 2005 to 2015 these positive developments are most visible in improving the position of the Roma national minority in all areas, systematically from inclusion in the education system, improving health and health care, increasing employment, improving housing conditions from investment in municipal and social infrastructure, continuing co-financing of spatial plans to legalisation of the settlement. Special attention was also paid to the preservation of Roma culture, traditions, languages and customs. In the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken measures and actions during 2012 to make fuller exercise of the rights of members of national minorities and can be found to be satisfactory progress in most areas. The improvement of the measures, as I mentioned earlier, has also contributed to the implementation of the action plan, which states that in a large percentage of 87.5% of the measures and implemented in 2012, and that is why the SDP Club will support this report. In the SDP club, we believe that the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities is a good normative framework for achieving full protection of the rights and SDP club supports the government in implementing measures and activities, in full implementation of this Constitutional Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68477	Thank you, too, dear colleague. We have a replica of the respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68478	Dear counterpart Mulić, I agree with most of your debate especially with the part where you talked about the smaller and the media. You have determined that minority topics are not present enough on HRT, I must warn you that there are many things that are not present at HRT especially in life and many things in HRT programmes are yet to be fulfilled in order to satisfy the form. So when you talk about how minorities in Croatia are represented, it is mostly through dancing, painting, shrieking, hooking, drawing and storymaking events. And that's what you warned yourself about, and it's dangerous to get over what unfortunately some minorities themselves insist on. So one of the most important segments, and what we talked about in Croatian society this morning, is quite certain that the media, and for us here in the Croatian Parliament, should focus precisely on HRT and therefore it is very much necessary to talk about HRT not once a year but more times about it because HRT must also be one of the foundations of democracy, and then protect the smaller ones that fully agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68479	The reply to the replica of the respected representative Melita Mulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68480	Thank you. Well, my colleague would actually agree with most of what you said except for the finding, and so are the representatives of the national minorities eight of them sitting in the Croatian Parliament, then individual national minorities themselves tend to getoisation of any kind and so to the media. HRT has excellent minority emissions that have a long tradition, but it is indeed a fact that we also bring to cultural amateurism, customs and other things. I think that minority topics in terms of the best possible examples and their contribution to Croatian society should be channeled through all emissions especially through the emissions of the information programme. And I felt it was necessary to point this out because it was also my contribution to the SDP club to improve the display of minorities and also in terms of positive criticism or constructive criticism on HTV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68481	The party's replica of the respected representative Igor Radjanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68482	Thank you, Mr. President. So I commend Mrs Mulic's initiative and it's good, you said at the beginning of your discussion on the comparison and this inquiry that you sent to parliaments in front of the Council of Europe and the answer you received. Because you can always get a real picture of the state of society and the state of development of society that you have, in fact, by comparing with others, and so I say I commend your approach that we actually tried to compare ourselves in that field with others and get information about how it stands with the rights of the language of the national minorities. Especially considering, not so long ago, the demands of some of the political opposition options to lower the standards that we have achieved here. Since very often and when the media is following us, they have very short copies of what you said and how you said, so there was a lapus that was stolen from you. In fact, you said that Croatia is one of the countries that has the lowest threshold in it, with regard to the use of the right of language, so the letters of national minorities. It has one of the highest thresholds but one of the lowest standards unfortunately in this regard, so just so someone doesn't get you out of this tonic excerpt so they actually turn things wrong, and otherwise you've had a very exhaustive debate and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68483	Replicate reply, respected representative Melita Mulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68484	Thank you, colleague Radjenović, and thank you very much for this correction. In order to increase the quality of the public debate both in this House, in the Croatian Parliament and in the Croatian public and media space. I think it is essential that as politicians and politicians we operate primarily on arguments. And so I asked for data, and in order not to actually use different surface unnamed or untrustworthy sources, so that all representative bodies are manifested in this, and that we can draw certain conclusions and that I would actually hope and that this could also contribute to the preservation of consistency and also to certain political parties in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68485	Thank you, too. We're continuing the club debate. It's up to IDS Club and Honorable Representative Furio Radin, that's his club too.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68486	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The IDS Club will, of course, support this report. It is specific and points to a whole series of problems and as such normally it must be supported. Somehow, it associates us with what if we compare the report to the operation has worked, and now we're going to talk a little bit about the patient whether he survives and in what condition the patient is in. So this report is good because it pointed to a whole series of problems that really exist and that are not of course good. But none of us thinks that such an important issue is for these areas and when I think and when I talk about these areas, I'm talking about areas called the region today. So it's about the former Yugoslavia. This issue in the region is always underrated. It is very important and very important for relations between people and very important for relations between peoples. I'm going to open up a parentheses here, talk a little bit about it, but I want to be honest to the end, and I want to say to the end what I think. I'm old enough to be honest. When you go to count how many members of the national minorities are missing in the 1948 census, I guess the first one was in 1948 or 1945 and today, you will see that there are more than a million members of the national minorities missing from the census only if they count Serbs, Italians and Germans. If other national minorities are added, the figure increases. It is about a quarter of today's population in Croatia. And when we talk about why he's committed. You know, there are also nervous people in Croatia who keep asking questions, so what do these national minorities want, so why should we deal with them, so why are they always bothering, why? It is difficult for us from the national minorities to answer that question, but I will try to answer it in one sentence. Because there should be a lot more of us today than there are. When respected experts constitutionally, I'll say and name say there's no reason to hide, in performances such as prof. Directional of good government efforts, better said fours in power to change the Constitution and to turn the constitutional law on national minorities into a constitutional law that he is not today. It's called Constitutional Law, but it's an organic law that has, of course, one flaw under quotes, that looks very much like constitutional laws because it has to be passed with two-thirds of the vote. But it clearly states in the Constitution that this, that this Constitutional Law is not the Constitutional Law, because it is passed as an organic law. So it's an organic law that the Constitutional Court can change, whose provisions the Constitutional Court may question at any time. And he did that when he changed election rules completely beyond every practice and every tradition and what it says in the Constitutional Law on the implementation of the Constitution 3 months before the elections. Why could it make the Constitutionals? Not just because it's the Constitutional Court, but because it's organic law. But when really in the amendments to the Constitution, we really want to do something good, and that is that this constitutional law becomes part of constitutional matter. So, to remove that provision that it is passed as an organic law, then everyone gets on their feet immediately, and respected experts say it would then cement the existing state. Let's translate. It would fit the position of national minorities that would remain national minorities. They would not gradually be evicted from the census, but they could still live as national minorities collectively and individually. You'd be able to keep their rights in order. I wanted to say this because no one responded to this debate, and this debate is extremely dangerous when it comes to the relationship and that the OSCE is and it is said in the same debate that the OSCE in the early 1990s conditioned Croatia to pass the first Constitutional Law. I always thought that the first constitutional law to be called on human rights and the rights of national minorities was brought about because she felt it, because she felt the need to take it away. But it doesn't seem that way in someone's mind. Two things fall immediately into the sight of our perception when we look at this report because the question that we have to ask ourselves is when, when we look at the essence and not the form of this report. I was already talking about form, and I said we'd vote for this report. But when we talk about the essence, we'll vote for it because it points to problems. When we look at problems and wonder how normally national minorities live in Croatia today because it is a question that we have to ask ourselves when we talk about this report and when we talk about the implementation of the National Minority Constitution. Whether national minorities live and to what extent live normally as other citizens on the basis of positive discrimination and the specific rights given to them by the Constitutional Law on National Minorities. Then problems related to the use of language are immediately perceived. I'm only going to talk about some neural points. One is that only two discussions were held in the Municipal Courts, only two procedures were better spoken in the languages of national minorities. While in 2014 the debate in the languages of national minorities was rejected from the members of the national minorities themselves. Now, let's look territorially, rather nationally, but from that, it also implies a territoriality. 212 of these 214 procedures were proposed in Istria, so it was proposed, I know they were in Istria. It was proposed when it came to discussions in Italian, when it came to discussions in Italian. Only two discussions also rejected refer to the Serbian language. You'll wonder why that is. This is because nowhere else but in the Istrian courts, there are no discussions in the Italian language in the courts in Istria. They are also offered where the Serb national community lives, but we see how many times. Twice. Why is that? Because I'm going back to the question before, I'm going back to the question of whether today is the extent to which it's normal to live as a national minority, and right now I'm giving one answer that I'm giving you to consider and that's that it's somewhere normal and somewhere it's not, somewhere more normal, somewhere less normal. It's more normal in Istria. Somewhere else is less normal. But why should members of the national minorities when they are offered my national minority, when they are offered to conduct a debate in their native language, why do they refuse? They refuse because they feel that this is going to be a difficult environment in relation to state institutions, they believe that if someone goes to court and has a discussion, they will already have a problem. And now if he adds another problem, and that's what we're going to do in Italian or Serbian, then he thinks it's going to be a difficult circumstance. I won't comment. I'm giving it to you for discussion and for the opportunity to comment on that fact. It's the same thing when we talk about IDs. Personal IDs in 2011 were requested by the Italian National Minority, members of the Italian language and Italian in 2319, and in 2012 2608. Serbian national minority 62, or 81. Hungary's national minority 31st and 23rd respectively. The Czech National Minority 18 Cards, i.e. 28. Russian National Minority 4 and 1 respectively. Slovakia, none. Why is that? It's also not my place to give an answer. I'd like the parties to answer that question. And we come to school. The school was taken as an example of good practice in all speeches and on all committees. I'll talk in this case only about two, very short on two problems. One problem is registration or the schools of national minorities. Since 1990, only pre-war schools have been registered as national minorities since the 1990s. No Serbian National Community school is registered as a language school and a letter from national minorities. I'm also the last person to answer the question why. When that's the second and last problem I'm going to talk about right now. When we talk about the Italian National Minority, then for the first time since 1945, it will continue to look and now after the reply Minister Jovanovic gave me on the parliamentary issue for the first time for enrolment in Italian high schools from primary schools, it is also not worth the Italian language, but it is worth the Croatian language. For the first time since 1945. Why is that? We don't, I don't. It's so illogical that we don't want to qualify or define that question. I'm just saying that the native language of Italians in Croatia is Italian, that high schools are in Italian, primary schools are in Italian and it's logical to value Italian. Also, the Italian language is also at the national prom, but be faster later because I have to leave at 11:30. Also, the Croatian language is valuable at the national prom, and Italian is only optional. I'll finish it. Mr. Minister,...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68487	It's time, Your Honor. You've gone too far.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68488	Now, here's a half sentence for one commendation. Mr. Minister, you are one of the few channels, perhaps the only channel we have in the Croatian government. Please tell those who listen to what we said today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68489	Thank you very much. Now we have five replicas. The first replica of the respected representative of Sima Lučina.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68490	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'm glad that at the beginning of your presentation, you actually opened a key issue for me, and that's the need to change the constitutional law. We have debated a lot about this in earlier years that not only in a legal-formal sense, or as you have called it constitutional, should this law be done and given it that weight, but also in content. Discussing earlier years on this law has always irritated me by one fact, which is that you can't say for this law whether it's being implemented or not. We've never had such a finding in our law enforcement reports. I don't know if it's, like you said about the issue of court hearings, whether it's national minorities' wishes or not, but there's an argument and why it is. Therefore, that is to be regulated legally. So we can't record from year to year in these reports that progress has been made. Because if for 10, 11 years we've written that we've made progress on that plan, then where would we be? So there's obviously a problem in the law. And what I still want to say in the end, this law also provides for certain sanctions, but when it comes to units of local or regional self-government that do not comply with the provisions, I stress the Constitutional Law, we do not de facto have any business sanctions. I know this law is an important political law, but it is also a legal law. And if we're constantly practicing politics so that we don't adhere to the right, it's very dangerous especially for the positions of national minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68491	Thank you very much. Replication response, the esteemed representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68492	Thank you. I agree with you, and you have completed in a very good way what I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68493	Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68494	Dear fellow Radin, you are in your debate the principles of many important topics. You spoke indirectly about identities, you said that millions of members of national minorities were missing from the mid-40s or late '40s until today. It's a lot easier to talk, discuss but also live in a community if our nation and faith are not our only identity, far too much. We are much more tolerant of society if our nation and faith are not our only identity or if they are not so much the prevailing identities of nations and religions to suppress all other identities. You know they're the rarest people with only one identity. It would be very good to open up smart ones, and that depends on us how smart we are, but also the debates of the cold head when it's discussed because they're useful for society as a whole. You were talking about some legal experts saying that if constitutional law was passed then minority rights would be cemented. Well, minority rights need to be improved, not cemented by existing ones, and improved by some other rights they don't have today. So long as we fear the rights of national minorities for so long we will be a narrow society, a society of unequal and sometimes we will exaggerate to redeem ourselves in the rights of national minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68495	Replication response, the esteemed representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68496	Thank you very much. Yes, indeed, if a man had limited himself to only one identity he would have been one-dimensional and had already spoken of it by great philosophers as... And Frome. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I agree with you, for example. We have many other identities. Since I spoke as a member of the IDS Club, I'll say that there are regional identities as well. We have 25,000 people who only recognize themselves in regional identity, for example. As far as cementing is concerned, I'm not sure the experts I spoke about before are considering the problem so they want to improve the rights of national minorities. They just don't want to cement their position. It means that national minorities on behalf of a hypothetical society of citizens are simply disappearing. Because when a society of citizens has to be made, it is known that new jobs do not have to be created, it does not have to be that I know how to improve health care, etc. and other rights than the need to start from the national minorities, they are the first to strike, they must disappear first and then we certainly have a good basis for establishing civil society.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68497	Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68498	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague, Radin, you touched a little medical terminology, so you said the surgery worked, and the patient died. That's what... You don't know, I take it well. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But God forbid anyone dies, of course. God bless everyone but to live as normal as you said, you've repeated it many times, and it's stuck in my ear. And what does that mean, normal? Normally, it means one decent existence for every family and I speak in that sense from my area where I know of my country and national minorities deal with many agricultural production and indeed the same problems have been found, namely many have failed, they have been extremely successful. It's certainly not good, it's not normal. Second, available schooling is also a prerequisite for a normal life. These announcements of the abolition of small schools under a certain number do not contribute to such a normal life. The third thing, as far as transport infrastructure is concerned, is that many people live in these rural areas where there is a weaker transport connection and the reduction of ZUC-eiva funds, the county road administrations must then contribute and speak for themselves about health care, which therefore requires a special interest. I think we should also focus our attention on normal life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68499	I didn't see if you wanted to. Here you are, Your Honor, your reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68500	Thank you very much. And I agree with you and thank you for having completed my more quality discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68501	Josip Djakic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68502	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, in your discussion, you doubted why they did not study in Italian and why court hearings were not conducted in Italian when they refused. I would just like to say that in this report, everything else that makes relevant indicators of what is bothering you has been widely presented in the list of populations, households and dwellings, as well as what language is used in households or which language is personally used. According to the native language, 95.60% of people said that their mother tongue is Croatian and 1.23% of people are Serbian. The share of persons with another mother tongue is individually less than 1%. Well, that's probably what lessons are learned and things that are in practice simple to be in mother tongue and exams as well as discussions. All other things about this are on the 59th page of this report which is comprehensively related to religious membership of all other things that show that the Constitutional Law also has certain rights that it gives to national minorities but also to those restrictions that can certainly not be implemented according to all national minorities or must have a certain percentage in society.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68503	Replication response, the esteemed representative Furio Radin. I noticed, preparing for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68504	Thank you very much. We may not have understood, 210 Italians whose native language was Italian refused to hold the debate in Italian. So I wasn't talking about the total population. Normally, in the total minority population there are fewer than most of them, I mean, it's, I'm glad you reminded me of that, but that's how it has to be because otherwise there wouldn't be a minority, but however, members of the minority refuse, and that's why I've started my debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68505	Honorable representative of Ante Babic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68506	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In your debate, you said what Mr. Djakic said and it is about improving the conditions of national minorities as well as the possibility of having a debate in courts in the mother tongue. But in the original foundations of the Croatian Constitution, 22 national minorities are listed and I don't know what it would look like if it were possible for national minorities to conduct discussions in courts in all languages knowing that, with the judge, the administrator and the parties in the process that could be more and more and bringing witnesses and witches to this particular language, I think it would be quite difficult. I don't know if it's possible to reach that level and do you know anything about a case like that anywhere in the world? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68507	Yes, a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68508	Well, we're in Istria trying, you know how? So the language of the minority becomes the language of the social environment. Although my minority is very small today, is there around 7.8% of people in Istria, more than 50% of people in Istria speak Italian, so they can achieve these conditions in a way that they live together long and live together in peace and be tolerated, is that of course the minority language is entered in Croatian schools which is in Istria.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68509	Here I am going to say, I have been very careful, so whether he raised a tile or answered the line, I have given that respected representative Furio Radin is replicating, this is true for future representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much. Now we're going to continue to discuss the Clubs of Representatives. It is next to the Croatian National Party and the Honored Representative Veljko Kajtazi. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68510	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with assistant, respected colleagues and colleagues. I hope that we are all here present with the wealth that national minorities contribute to our society and country. I hear countless times that the allocation of large funds to promote rights, identity and tradition of national minorities needlessly, especially in these times when there is no budget money for waste and austerity measures are carried out almost in all resolutions. On the contrary, in such times of crisis, it is necessary to discern and improve the care of national minorities because by worrying about the few and often socially discriminated, we show the strength and level of democracy of our society and the country in which we live. The report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds secured for the needs of national minorities is a fundamental document that unites the entire year of work of all state services in relation to the exercise of the rights of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. The report shows that a total of 133 million and 500 thousand kuna were spent in 2012 for the purpose of implementing the Constitutional Law. At first glance, a large sum, but as a member and representative of the national minorities in the Assembly, can confirm that in many areas national minorities are missing a large number of funds until some other portfolios make full use of the money. For this reason, it is necessary to stress the importance of good redistribution and the categorisation of money in order to reach its end-users as much as possible. The report really results in visible progress on the area of education, cultural autonomy, housing care and return, as well as the successful processing of motivated criminal offences especially compared to previous years' data. On behalf of the HNS Club, I support this report since I believe that the situation in the area and concerns of national minorities is improving year by year, of course in line with current opportunities and budgetary constraints. In addition to other positive developments in the field of concern for national minorities, I would particularly single out the fact that in 2011 and 2012, a large majority of the measures were implemented, about 86% of the Action Plan for the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. It is indeed a satisfactory procedure, and I hope that the rest of the measures will be implemented as soon as possible. While there is the right of the minority population to use language and letters in the judiciary and to produce personal documents in minority language surprises still a low percentage of citizens who are taking advantage of such opportunities. Furthermore, as regards the preservation of traditional names and labels and the use of national minority signs and symbols, no significant irregularities were observed during 2012. Regarding the area of official and public use of the language and letter of national minorities, mainly due to delays in the 2011 census, there were no major changes in the area of the right of bilingualism. As it is expected that there could be more debate on this subject in the 2013 Report, I would like to emphasise that as a member and representative of the national minorities, I am fully committed to the full application of the Constitutional Law in this area. I wish he didn't have to criticise that report in any part, but as a representative of national minorities, it is my duty to warn me of certain parts that I believe may and should be promoted. Although education in the language of certain national minorities has been successfully implemented for many years, I would like to focus on the problem of education within the Roma national minority, given that within this national minority we are facing the biggest difficulties in the education process itself. In many areas a preschool programme has been launched to help Roma children become more involved in the education system. Unfortunately, many children still remain outside the programme, which significantly reduces their ability to successfully attend primary school education. For each commendation, the growing number of children of Roma national minorities who are enrolling in primary school, and data on leaving the educational process remains devastating. If we include the gender dimension in the story of leaving the educational process, the data is very worrying. Although changes are difficult, it is necessary to make every effort to change the negative practices on the education of girls within the Roma community. Furthermore, because of the limited resources, we are unable to engage more Roma helpers in the follow-up which would significantly help in the educational process of children of the Roma national minority. It is this project that has proved to be a success in the educational process of children of the Roma national minority, and I hope that we will be able to finance it in the future in a wider scale. The number of students of the Roma national minority remains extremely low regardless of certain benefits offered to students of the Roma national minority. It is necessary to encourage higher and higher education more strongly because it is the only way we can create leaders within the community, which is the key to long-term development, not only of the Roma community, but also of other minority communities. I have mentioned several times the need for strong promotion of education and overtraining of adults. Given the high dependence on benefits for the unemployed and social assistance present within the Roma community, it will take a long time for the benefits of education today's children to be painted on the whole community while in the meantime, adult education can partially reduce the presence of the problems mentioned. Education of a certain percentage of the adult population and by finding adequate employment, we can break the vicious cycle of unemployment, unemployment and widespread poverty within the community in some ways. Of course, in this time of the general crisis there will be difficult new jobs and therefore, in cooperation with ministries, institutions and with the support of European funds, it is necessary to insist on these forms of self-employment such as minority cooperatives that already exist in some parts of the Republic of Croatia. On the subject of employment, despite the general ban on new employment of civil servants and deputies, I believe it is not correct that the number of employed members of national minorities in the majority of the institution is not nearly a percentage of the prescribed Constitutional Law of 5%. The institutions should certainly take more care of the Constitutional Law when hiring new employees. Furthermore, in 2012, more than 16 million kunas from the budget of local units were spent on financing the work of councils and representatives of national minorities of 19 Croatian counties. While the councils are necessary bodies dealing with minority issues both locally and regionally, there are often times a lack of basic resources for work such as where they would regularly conduct their meetings, which should certainly be changed in cooperation between competent institutions and local and regional self-government. I would like to praise the co-operation of the MUP and national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, although there are still exceptions in the field of ethnically motivated criminal offences and discrimination proceedings, the situation has improved significantly. The Roma national minority continues to have problems with certain community members who do not have a regulated stay in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which is a direct consequence of the status issues of citizenship. Last year, as there was a change in the Law on Foreigners which served to treat individuals who do not have a regulated status, it would once again appeal to the MUP that other competent institutions should address the status issues of certain members of national minorities who, even though they have been living in the territory of the Republic of Croatia for years, do not have regulated status of residence or valid documents from another country in the region. The 18 chapters of the report are dedicated to the implementation of the National Programme for Roma and the Decade of Action for Roma inclusion. Although members of all national minorities experience existential and discriminatory problems, Roma are particularly affected by taking into account the general state of education, housing for social care expenditures. I think that action plans are necessary and for this reason I welcome the new National Strategy for Roma inclusion 2013-2020, which was developed by the Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, which I hope will be more successful. There is still a need to raise standards in the health of Roma infants and children, including vaccination programmes and other health measures. Although progress in conducting health education is evident in order to improve health habits, health standards among the Roma population in most cases are largely below the level of the rest of the population. In terms of employment, HZZ implemented a pre-conditional programme for training and employment of Roma. Given the extremely low employment, I have repeatedly appealed to HZZZ and local self-government to increase the quotas for financial public works as well as to extend the time limit on which they are engaged. Public works often remain the only alternative of unemployment in view of the difficult economic situation, but also the change in the law, for example, in the area of the collection of secondary raw materials. The apartment remains a painful point of the Roma minority. Since there is still no basic infrastructure in most Roma settlements, and often families live on several square meters of inappropriate space. Croatia unfortunately did very little to withdraw funds from pre-accession funds, and I hope that the use of funds will increase in the coming period with an increase in funds. In the area of housing, co-operation of all competent ministries, local and regional self-government is needed, given that the settlements are often located on state-owned land, which is a problem in particular now in the legalisation process of some settlements. I hope that the shortcomings in the previous strategy will be corrected and that we will, by common will and strength, further improve the situation within the Roma community in the Republic of Croatia because only in this way, there will be successful integration and progress of our society. I would like to conclude this exhibition and once again draw attention to the problem of the distribution and categorisation of funds intended for national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. Given that this is a major resource, I think it is necessary to prevent the least misuse of funds. By successfully overseeing the implementation of financial projects, we can legitimately justify the funds spent, but also ensure that they do come to the end-users for which they are intended. It is the only way that we will truly be able to maintain the trust of all taxpayers to members of the national minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68511	Thank you very much. And now we have a whole series of replicas. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68512	In your debate, you are saying that even more than 86% of all measures in the action plan for achieving the rights of national minorities have been accepted or implemented, but you are giving a great deal of regret, and perhaps with the right to do so with regard to insufficient funds, in order to bring all measures truly to life. But in times of crisis, it is a problem for both the majority and minorities. But what seems particularly important to me, and you have not failed to point out yourself that apart from legislative solutions, something that is even more important than that is the political climate in which these rights are being realised. In every democratic society minority rights today they reflect the democratic consciousness of one society, one state of political culture, and we must all be clear here when minority rights are compromised, and most are threatened. That is why we are fortunate to have introduced today into schools and civic education where most of these rights should be learned, because what is also in the EU Parliament and the right hand, the centre and the left hand common to that centre, is that such rights are never the problem of their mutual debates, but, in fact, when it comes to these issues, the unity is guaranteed. But it seems to me, and it is visible, some marginal political groups that raise their voice in Croatia and even more in Europe, and we must recognize them here together in the Croatian Parliament that some have such a political dominant discourse before each election where they are said to be guests. And then they go abroad and they want to be hosts. We can't afford that. I repeat, when any right, human right, is compromised, we are all at risk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68513	Thank you very much. Sun Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68514	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. You know very well that I come from Međimurje County where most Roma live in the Republic of Croatia, so I'll just look back at some parts of your exposure. First of all, it's about education. I agree with you, I can see that you've seen the problem, but perhaps at the Roma community level you should be able to deal with that problem more closely. Education is one of the preconditions for really real Roma integration into our community. However, the Međimurje County cannot do it alone. That is why we have already proposed in HDZ that not only can the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister be involved in the Roma problem now but it is necessary to include not through an adviser or some third in the hierarchy that I do not offend someone from the Ministry of Science and Education that a resolution minister must be directly involved in this problem, that he knows her well and that he is seriously involved in it. The county can't do it alone. The Međimurians are very tolerated, you know. Maybe that's one of the reasons Rommie feels good about us. Of course, we're all members of the same community, we're all Međimurci and Međimurka, but obviously we don't all have the same rights and obligations. That's why we need to know that even members of the Roma national minority have all the rights as well as everyone else but they also have to fulfil their obligations which, unfortunately, you do, and you know, they don't. As for the Roma programme, therefore, it must be dealt with by that segment relating to early school leaving, the problem why you first mentioned girls, those obviously after 6th or 7th grade Let me finish my sentence. They're leaving school. [[Thank you very much.]] So these are all problems that can be better solved if everyone gets involved from the level of government, especially the ministers that I have
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68515	Please take care of the weather. Replication response, Veliko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68516	I want to say that I agree with the replica, and I'm going to keep in mind that we should all get involved together, and I also think that all the time that Roma are just objects that aren't objects. I think both in your county and in all other counties the Roma should shut down maximum. Of course the Minister can't, the mayor can't, but without Roma, we can't solve problems. In all of Međimurje County, we do not have any employees, whether it is done in the municipality or in the city or county. So, all together if we get involved, I think there's going to be an improvement in the life and standards of the Roma. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68517	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68518	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In your comprehensive report today, you also spoke about the measures of the School Action Plan, and perhaps you did not end up stating that the ministry actually co-financed for... Roma language. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb also introduced Roma language as an electoral object, and special forms of teaching are organised and conducted by these three Roma associations. But you also said that leaving school is happening in both primary and secondary schools, somewhere around 60 percent of Roma children leave both primary and secondary education. And then you appealed to the ministry, that is, the state, but you talked less about the role of the parents of Roma children and of raising them to the values of primary school, i.e. secondary school in the Republic of Croatia, which should actually be the role of the Roma national minority and yourself in the Republic of Croatia. I think you're okay with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68519	Replication response, Veliko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68520	Here's a thank you to my colleague. I will bear in mind that he mentioned the introduction of an electoral class at the Faculty of Roma Language one and two and the literature and culture of Roma. Among other things, I would just like to remind you of all the other colleagues that we have also set up a bilingual record at the Faculty of Philosophy where we are personally happy and proud given that these bilingual boards are safe among the first and the Europeans and so that we are also recognizable in that part. As for the fact that there are a small number of children, especially girls, in elementary schools and a small number of those who end up. That is why, as I mentioned earlier, educators and social workers should be involved. And we should not allow the same because the Republic of Croatia's constitutional law is an 8-year-old education for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and that applies to the Roma. And there's no way to say it's a tradition that a Roma child doesn't graduate from elementary school, etc. So, in this process, everyone has to get involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68521	Shime Luchin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68522	Thank you very much. Well, my dear colleague, I mean, the two things you've touched, they seem very important to me, but I might be a little different in position. So you were talking about employment and your efforts towards the Employment Bureau. But we have another problem, which is that neither the central state nor the local state actually meets its requirements under the law. This means that we do not have what is prescribed in the law of employment in state administration bodies, especially local administrations. Therefore, this should primarily be fought for the position when it comes to national minorities. And another thing is very little about it, but you mentioned councils and representatives of national minorities. I think those are bodies that need to be given greater legitimacy. I don't know, I was making some suggestions about it a few years ago. I don't get it. I'll take one formal thing. Why don't we have local elections together with elections for members of the Council? In such a way, we would give them greater legality and legitimacy, and on the other hand, it seems to me that these councils actually exist the most for the distribution of what little money they get, and in fact it seems to me that their work is more reduced to some manifestational, cultural character roles that I don't think should be ignored and that what matters is therefore, the position itself in a particular middle of the national minority that is not sufficiently covered by the work of these councils as normally as there are exceptions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68523	Replication response, Veliko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68524	Thank you very much. Here at the very beginning, I would like to thank all my colleagues who have been involved in my replica. It just shows me that I've been followed very well and as far as employment itself is concerned, I mean, I wouldn't agree with my colleague, given that we could count the last Roma in the state institutions. I think that we should show positive discrimination in employment because that is the only way we will encourage Roma education, only under these talks and my employment that I have been in the Croatian Employment Service for 20 years and perhaps I am the only parliamentary representative who has entered the Assembly from the Croatian Employment Service. I think it's a bad example of the Roma community. And as far as words are concerned, I fully agree, but also those words, in order to be able to function and help the community must do as I have pointed out, must have the most basic working conditions because right now, when it comes to the Roma community, we have only one council that has space and 11 councils and representatives at the county level.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68525	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68526	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here's fellow Kajtazi, you said there was no resources to support the implementation of the National Minority Rights Act even though this action plan was implemented in 87.5% and it is satisfactory to the possibilities of the Republic of Croatia. You all forget to say how much money it is. 133 million 498 thousand and 918 kuna and 68 lipa are total funds for the needs of national minorities. This is against providing funds for Homeland War associations very much because 16 million in the entire state of Croatia use the ministry for all associations. But in this report, there's not everything that's supposed to be. There are no reports of donations, foreign donations, investments made from, say, the Japanese government towards Serbian cultural society, of 41 thousand euros for the restoration of a school in Voljun that has not been made. There are no findings of the revision on the spending of these funds, and you are right when you say that these funds should be more rational and better spent because there is also funding for a Serbian cultural society, an education that publishes a list that many times mudsling both former statesmen and today does not deserve those funds in such a way of its work. It seems to me that some have turned this state support and care for national minorities into an ethic business. It should still be prevented.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68527	You're a replicator.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68528	I thank the esteemed vice president. Comrade Kajtazi, you spoke in your debate about the insufficient involvement of members of the Roma population in public works. So here I have to tell you that I know of certain cases of tendering for public works by units of local self-government in Međimurje County where no member of the Roma population has appeared in these competitions. Therefore, such competitions are discussed, however, if public works occur, they are mostly members of the younger generation and those who still do not have a family and who do not have children. The moment members of the Roma population start a family and have children, they focus on life from social assistance and do not engage in the world of work. You also talked about education, and I agree completely with you that education is definitely and irrevocably the most basic and efficient, the most correct way to socialize the Roma population. However, education projects should not, in my opinion, focus solely on children. I think that certain education projects should also focus on their parents primarily on mothers most involved in child rearing. So it's not enough to educate only children, it's also necessary to create a far better and better quality relationship between school and parents, so primarily mothers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68529	Replication response, Veliko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68530	Thank you. As far as education is concerned, I fully agree with you and everything you've said exactly, it should be more involved in education, but that's why we also have to move towards getting closer to the settlement. It's one of the reasons why we can't implement exactly what we want, which is to educate parents, etc. As far as public works are concerned, there are major problems especially Roma, which 97% of Roma live on social aid that is much greater than public works. This is one of the reasons why we may not have enough candidates registered through these certain public works, and here I would also use the opportunity to ask local self-government in some way to get more involved together with the representatives of the associations to make a list and then certainly won't be left unaccounted for. If they included what I've been saying all along, that the Roma must be a subject all along and not an object, I think that by the end of what they wanted we will surely achieve.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68531	On behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, counterpart Nedzad Hodzic, please welcome your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68532	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Honorable ministers with assistants, colleagues and colleagues. My debate with the help of my colleagues' glasses will be principled because mine are broken and I will not talk about the details of this report because we have heard much and from the point of view of Roma minority issues and from the aspect of saying use of language and minority letters, and above all I will say that the Club of Representatives of National Minorities will support this report. It's complete, it's a reflection of what happened in that year, it's talking about certain problems and not implementing the works of the Constitutional Law that we have passed, so I'm not going to refer too much to all these details of speciality. At some principle level, first of all, I want to express my satisfaction, and I believe a colleague from the club, that we have a law like this. Despite this relatively high threshold, which has been discussed by his colleague Mulic in relation to other European countries, he is a quality of one law, and that is why we want to and we wanted through the possible constitutional changes that will be or will not be cemented because we want to be something, I would say more protected than we want this society to mature a little more democratically, these rights do not diminish or at least manipulate themselves in certain situations. We are also pleased with the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and these and those of the former in the implementation of this law. Of course, a large part of these rights are related to the funds, the state of the budget this year and the previous ones, but the future is as it is and we can't be satisfied, but I also think that what we heard today in the replica, comparison with any other aspect of the budget money, is perhaps not the correct thing, what we heard today from our esteemed colleague Djakic, because this is a specific problem, one specific law that needs to be implemented and of course it should cost as much as it costs. There are ultimately certain international agreements with countries from which individual national minorities come, so I think it was a little incorrect to compare the budget spending to the implementation of this law to anyone else. In the end, they could be polymerised in this way on each item in the budget. My next pleasure is especially to amend the laws by which we choose representatives in local regional self-government. So, these changes to the laws that took place in 2012 and of which the minister also said something today and which were applied in the local elections in 2013 are indeed one step towards positive discrimination against members of the national minorities in the Republic of Croatia and I am, of course, very pleased and I hope that, in the future, it will be on the trail of certain legislative initiatives. So, in Croatia, members of national minorities, when it comes to selecting the mayors of municipalities or mayors where we have legal conditions, in addition to being able to vote for the mayor or mayor with his deputies, they can, in particular, as an additional or here to say positively discriminated, vote for their minority representative or deputy, which in any case is one positive step. Of course there are things we are not satisfied with, it is, above all, the part of the implementation of this law regarding the employment of members of national minorities. We are aware that this process or that part of the law cannot be achieved overnight, that it is one process, but we also see that there are no more serious shifts. What is particularly worrying is that in certain ministries, I will give an example of the Ministry of Defence in which, despite the victims of Bosniak and participation in the Homeland War, no Bosniak works. Now, I think that it might also have to be accounted for in all resolutions, both at national and local level, for members of national minorities to be involved, to integrate through this segment of work in the state and public administration. Another thing that we are not particularly satisfied with is the presence or representation or the story of members of national minorities in the media. So, that segment that speaks of our cultural autonomy, we can be partially satisfied, but we would be very pleased to show how much members of the national minorities are integrated into this society, so that those examples of sport, culture, education and all other segments of society where members of national minorities are integrated, we believe that this society would be demoralized, and I would say broken a certain fear that perhaps still exists with a certain number of people or a certain reserve towards it. In the end, I would just like to remind all of you once again that we have a good law and ask that in our, in particular, political work, the consumption of the rights of this law is not subject to any political games, that we are all doing it transparently together, we are contributing to the rights of this law being realised because national minorities are only the wealth of this society, believe me, we are no threat to Croatian society and even the achievement of these constitutional law rights is no threat to this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68533	Shime Luchin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68534	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, my colleague, I fully agree with you that national minorities are not a threat to this society, but to wealth, but they may be a threat to individuals who have problems with their own identity. But what I wanted to replicate, which is what you are at one point, so speaking of the efforts of a possible amendment to the Constitution in this direction, said that things should be cemented or not cemented until more democracy matures. I don't think we can look at things either one way or another, but it's about a circle, a closed circle. So democracy will not be at a higher level as you said if we do not raise both the rights and the realisation of these rights of national minorities, and neither will the rights of national minorities be greater if we do not raise democratic standards. It's the same story or face and the same medal. So I can't accept that he needs one first and then the other. I think that for a long time on this plan we have shown as a society in which we want to go and where we are going but that we need another little effort and step to make sure that what we're determined to do and we realize it all the way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68535	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68536	I couldn't agree more with you, colleague Lucin. So this is our particular fear, and we have witnessed this year unbound for this report that the Law on the Rights of National Minorities is not applicable in this country, which we have witnessed in Vukovar, we have witnessed violence to strip bilingual records, we are witnessing activities and a possible referendum that this threshold that we have talked about is also high in applying bilingualism to raise to 50%. So that's why we're saying that constitutional changes should contribute to keeping this current situation at least. My colleague Radin said one big thing, and I'm going to remind him now, one time I was talking about it, so in Istria I came to Istria in '88 and today I speak Italian. There are very few Italians in Istria but half the people speak, there are schools every knowledge is wealth. It is my appeal for this to happen in the east of Croatia. Serbian and Croatian languages are languages that are understood but also such a Cyrillic letter should be learned in the next period at least half of the members of the Croatian nation then it will be one wealth that I am talking about here and we want it to be so in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68537	On behalf of the promoter, Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68538	Thank you. I would just like to take a brief look at the two segments mentioned in the debate, one concerning representation in the representative bodies of executive bodies, so during 2012, we have seen certain difficulties in applying the two laws at the time, the Law on selecting members of representative bodies and the Law on the selection of mayors, mayors and mayors and we have decided by law to define mechanisms to ensure the representation of members of national minorities. What made it easier for us at that time was that there were no results of the census so we could, for example, do so without having concrete figures to write a system that we knew would apply equally to everyone and that this mechanism applied to members of the Croatian people in those municipalities and cities, or only to municipalities where members of national minorities make up the majority or relative or absolute majority of the population, and we think that this is good for another reason. We have made it impossible to manipulate the mandates of members of the national minorities by replacing with a member of another nationality, then filling the council is actually forging the will of the citizens in the elections. And we have laid down a provision that in some ways does not go in favour of the representation of national minorities, which is that by declaring the final results of the elections, the representation of national minorities is considered to be secured. If secured, if no additional elections go. The additional elections were held only in 4 municipalities because there were no candidates for the Roma national minority on any list of political parties. If any party had put on its list one member of the Roma national minority with one vote, they would have been given the right to a councilman under the law. However, in the re-election of the 4 municipalities only in one municipality, there were special elections for Roma national minority councillors, and only in one municipality was the list of three candidates, so we did not call the third elections, and I think it is now sort of settled. We no longer have the need to go into the control of the statutes, we do not need to write to the Constitutional Court that no representation has been achieved in representative bodies because this law in my opinion has in one good way regulated and I believe that it will remain in force and have also entered into two provisions to amend the current law. One idea and a favorite for members of national minorities, i.e. the favour of representation of members of national minorities, is that in those units local self-government particularly regional where the population is below 5% of the national minority is guaranteed proportional representation. This applies to the city of Zagreb and several other counties where 2 to 3% of members of a national minority who have so far had no right in the county assembly. Under these legal changes, they got that right. This applies, for example, to the Hungarian national minority in Osijek-Baranja County, to Romania in Međimurje, to the Serbian national minority in Zadar and Brod-Posavia in the city of Zagreb, in Bjelovarska, etc. And in other cities, that's one thing. But on the other hand, we have prescribed that the census, not the list of voters, is the basis for representation, and it still does not go to the benefit of members of national minorities, but rather reduces them a little, but we believe that the census is something which is 10 years stable that three next mandates will be a known political situation and that after the next census again, 10 years will be the same situation. The other thing I'm saying is that it concerns the representation of members of the national minority in the authorities of the state administration and in the public services. In fact, before and during 2011 and after that, we have completed the Register of Public Sector Employees to a good degree, and in fact, the register of voters where one is, and that is the only official state record, where a person is asked about nationality because of minority elections and because of the elections in special election units and therefore we have compared these two registers, of course taking care of the protection of personal data and we have received information that in state bodies it is of those
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68539	Bring in the Minister's place.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68540	Okay, so there are 3,96% of national minorities in state bodies and 4,02% of national minorities in public services, which is something in a positive way different from the current data, but they are incomparable because by the second methodology we did them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68541	Thank you very much. On behalf of the club of independent representatives Damir Cain. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68542	Dear Vice-President, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. Yes, just now Mr. Djakic said that this implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities is costing, under quotes "costs" don't get me wrong now, 133 million kuna. But it's only part of the money. It is certainly necessary to add local self-government funds from individual municipalities to our counties. However, when we talk about the implementation of the Constitutional Law a couple of exellances, I think the political issue right now is this famous under quotes of a "famous" referendum on Cyrillic. Six hundred thousand signatures have been collected. For someone who comes from Istria, it is the most monstrous thing that could simply happen to 650 thousand citizens, watch out for adult citizens, sign or review the position on one side of the Serbian but also all other minorities in Croatia. 20 years after this war. To question the position of Cyrillic which is as much a Croatian letter as the Serbian letter is actually to question the position of Italians in Istria or the Primorje-Gorski County anyway or Zadar, and Hungarians in Slavonia and the Czech Republic do not know in Daruvar, Roma in Međimurje and so on. Finally, that Cyrillic was used before the Latin, along with the verb. For example, the Cyrillic was written in one St. Peter in a forest that's 10 km of airline, say, from one Pazin in the 12th century. So what now? Are we, like some in Istria between the two wars, fascists with shrimp now, then removing verb inscriptions, after the war, saying that communists are Italian, should we now now remove Cyrillic inscriptions or remove their plates in 2014? And it might be really good, I don't know what politics is now, to ask the Constitutional Court a question about this referendum. And I believe what the Prime Minister has repeatedly said that the government will not allow such a referendum and neither would it be the future one unless God gives it a change of power. Finally, let's remember this Split Riviera and then the fate of Croatian generals. Right, that was then, when? In 2004, 2005. There was probably no room for government to do otherwise, but there is no room for anyone to play with Cyrillic and therefore no Cyrillic to touch. Let us not play with one word the position of our countrymen in the ranks of minorities because Croatia is their country as much as ours. And I'm going to paraphrase General Gotovina who said about when he was asked after returning from The Hague, so why don't the Serbs come back? Well, this is both here and their home. That's kind of how that line reads. And whenever we were divided by nationality, then I say mostly down in Istria, then under quotes, we'd "be sober" on the wave of some exodus in a third country. What do you say? A large number of Slavs, Croats, Slovenians depart from Istria between two wars. After the war, a large number of Romanes. It's said up to 140 thousand people, not just Italians, and Istria loses it, suffers civilizationally, culturally, I don't know economically. In one word, man. And who's profiting? They're profiling later the bastards who bought that abandoned land, the houses, the villages of the station, and so on. Although it's not a matter of normal to put anything that can be put into service. Well, let's just sort of take it this way, first of all. 3., it seems to me that this 2002 Constitutional Law was voted almost by consensus, by a two-thirds majority anyway. Indeed, the minority standard in Croatia is at least when it comes to laws unquestioned. However, I would say it may even be above the quotes of the "European standard". But Mr Furio is also probably right when he says that Croatia leaves almost 1 million people after the cataclysm of World War II. And therefore, we also have an obligation to members of the national minorities. Here, that we may be in some parts and have some standards today greater than elsewhere is this selection of 8 MPs in the Croatian Assembly of Minorities. Few countries have one of those standards. Now, someone will ask themselves whether it's fair for a minority member to be represented by 300 votes if others are represented by 15 or 20 thousand votes. But once we've adopted it, there's no going back. Is there a problem? Well, of course there are. Everything is not a consequence I would say only that material position of the Republic of Croatia but sometimes some things and things are political will. And I certainly agree with those who have said that they are in the hardest position today in the country, for example, when it comes to Roma minorities, but once again I will be apostrophe of a referendum on a Cyrillic that fears, fears, and let us not play there. And let's remind ourselves, and that's what this report on page 39 of what happened after the storm when after the end of the war operations, thousands and thousands of buildings occurred. I said after, not during surgery, people left before surgery. The Croatian state had to rebuild these burned, collapsed, mined buildings but people didn't come back and what we have, a desert land and here it is said on page 39. The 239 million kuna reconstruction of 245 family homes cost taxpayers, or international institutions. I mention this case because of something similar to what happened to Serbian assets outside the war area. Their property was also destroyed, and I have told you many times about this pay phone. For example. in the Bjelovar area but the state did not renew them and all the time there was talk of loyal citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Let's let it go now. The problem is the same as some, for example. The state services do not stand out with the Croatian flag and flag of minority communities, and yesterday I also heard one thing that happens in some schools or kindergartens in Istria that someone does not want to play a formal song, a beautiful country of Istria, home to the born of Croatia. And that's what I heard, and don't let anyone play with it. On page 7, we see that in the Municipal Courts minority "refuse" the right to conduct the proceedings, for example here in Italian or other minority language. That standard should be kept, it should be defended. I kind of know why that is, least of all, because of fear or giggling or fear of the impartiality of judges, but when it comes to issuing ID cards, we see a growing interest here. Yes, I also hold the Minister's word that the Office of State Administration for Istria, Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, Liku will be in Pazin and the clearly County of Istria is why I say this is unquestionable and because of minority expression and this specificity simply guarantees that no one, that between Istria and Zagreb, will be political or jumpboards. Interestingly, 10,000 592 children attend minority - language schools. No matter how many minority members fall, the number of children in schools and kindergartens is growing. And that's the thing I'm going to say better political climate, the benefits of the education in these minority languages, there's the thing and the political emancipation and it's undeniable that Mr. Hodzic's parents were talking about it, Croats, Serbs, Macedonians, for example. in Istria, they send children to Italian schools or kindergartens and what is more controversial, nothing, however, is very useful and much, much cheaper. Page 24. Right to the manifestation of faith means as the state follows the Roman Catholic Church with the foundation of the concord so financially follows the proportions of the other church communities or other churches in Croatia and that is absolutely fine. We can talk about amounts, but I think it's a principle that's acceptable to everyone, and that's where it needs to be extremely, extremely careful. Clearly, I would like to place an emphasis on the number of employees in state administration bodies, page 29. Those numbers mean they're moving around 3.4%. So that's where we see minority members I dare say represented. According to the ministry's data on 31 December 2012, I quote out of 576 units of local, regional and regional self-government 130 ensure representation, 130 or employment of members of national minorities, and then on 31 December 2012, according to the 2013 audits of local, regional (regional) government authorities, a total of 12,990 employees and tenants were employed, of which 594 or 4,5% of members of one of the 22 national minorities and then listed 71 or 0.55% of unknown persons, etc., that I do not speak. We have as many as 90, Bosniak 43, Hungarian 32, Slovenians 25, Czech Republic 20, Montenegrins and the like, clearly the most Serbs, 331. The fact is, that's where minority members are represented. True, rather than hiring in public services, people will be fired, but that should be taken into account. When we talk about local self-government and their representation there is something a little bit better said, I repeat in local self-government 2012 on 31 December there were 12 thousand 990 employees, in Istria around 1100, meaning in that narrow local self-government there are those 90 Italians not only in Istria but only in the Primorje-Gorski County if Istria is 4.5% of the population, if local self-government has 12,990 people, and we have 1,100 employees, it turns out that in Istria almost twice as many people as the Croatian average are working in local self-government. We have a revision soon, and we will also talk about it, and we will clearly compare that data to see what money is spent on and how it is employed. The National Minorities Council, page 35, 16.4 million kuna, in Istria million and 387 thousand kuna, on the other hand, only for the promotion of 2.5 million kuna. Of course there's a problem, but there's a side, here's what I was saying before about coming back, rebuilding those 238 million kunas. There are certain problems, but no matter what, I think that when it comes to the position of national minorities, we let those cataclysms that happened after the war, all, under quotes, civil governments are trying to make their position as easy as possible and I think that when we look at how we have these laws, Croatia has nothing to be ashamed of in front of third countries when it comes to the position of minorities in these areas. There is a space to improve these moments, especially this referendum on Cyrillic. Once again, it has passed, we will see whether it will pass, I also call on the Constitutional Court to react to far less detail, something says in this case, and I think that in a civilised country like Croatia it must not, gentlemen MPs, pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68543	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68544	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, as always, my colleague Caine, you're re-evaluating the reports superficially and on-the-spotly because you haven't even read it. On page 34, it's clear how much the county has helped implement this law. Look at page 34 and you will see clearly that all Croatian counties with 16 million and 444 thousand kuna have helped implement this law and national minority programmes. The second thing, when you talk about a referendum on Cyrillic in Vukovar, it would certainly not be necessary, as in all other parts of RS Cyrillic would not be an obstacle or an obstacle to anyone. If all the victims were buried, if the time had passed that caused terrible pain to the Croatian people, if all that had been done had passed, and all those who had participated in the aggression, murder, robbery, arson, robbery and rape had been sanctioned, then there would be no need for a referendum or resistance to a Cyrillic letter, and whether it was or not, it would not be for you to decide. You should know as you advocate not to sing some song in Istria, I don't know how you didn't forbid Pegi to sing Thompson, you probably have the right to do it exclusively as you banned Thompson from the arena in Pula, but it will pass. How you treat one as you glorify the other. Your actual indifference, because you may have replaced Pejo, you may be singing Thompson soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68545	Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68546	Mr. Djakic, these fascisoid shouts some singers use for home, so the audience responds to them ready in Istria hope they don't pass. It won't work. To Vukovar, Mr. Djakic's greatest pitet, to their sacrifice, to the suffering that these inhabitants of that holy Croatian city have suffered, to the torment that the Vukovars are going through, to the memory of all those who think of Vukovar. But you will agree or you will not agree that such a referendum aimed at sharing Croatian citizens by nationality is something that is monstrous and which in some way, not me, but the Constitutional Court, I will not have to say no but must question. If that doesn't happen, then good night Croatia and then we won't be surprised if that Vukovar and the rest of Croatia leave a few tens of thousands of people, not only who are different nationalities but who think otherwise. If you are fighting, Mr Djakic for such Croatia, such Croatia I want to trust the vast majority of citizens must be foreign and unknown.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68547	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Josip Djakic. I've seen that you're up, you don't need any nerves.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68548	Thank you very much, ma'am. I didn't notice you saw it. I don't know when you see, when you don't see. I'm asking you nicely, injured article 238. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Cain insults the public. I am neither fascist nor Croatian defenders who have collected signatures for the referendum Fascistoid and may this be the last time that you have offended someone like this. You can appeal to statements about nationality and the issue of nationality, I will refer to what the president of Croatia said when he spoke about national minorities, especially about Serbia, and he said the following. Today in the government, past the SDSS there are more Serbs than in all the mandates in which the SDSS was in the ruling coalition, even in the government. This shows that the representation of Serbs in the government with good national policy such as parties to the Kukuriku coalition,... The SDP can accomplish without payment as well as without such representatives as yourself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68549	Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. No injured Rules of Procedure. Since colleague Cain didn't insult you or offend you, he didn't say you were fascisoid, he said he was welcome to be fascisoid. It's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Cain, what's the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68550	In that Mr. Djakic is trying to threaten me. But I've listened to him like this, and you won't scare me, Mr. Djakic, and you won't scare the rest of me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68551	He didn't scare anyone, but please discuss the report then there won't be any such replicas or each other's insults. A colleague of Jadranka Kosor replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68552	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My replica is more technical, and less politically, I believe that's how my colleague Cain will understand. You said you believed that the government would not allow a referendum for which more than 650 thousand signatures were collected. The government doesn't have anything to do with it anymore. This will be decided by the Croatian Parliament, the debate must be held here because the number of signatures is sufficient. On the basis of this debate, the Parliament will believe this time to use its obligation, I would say from the Constitutional Law that the Parliament is sending questions or asking the Constitutional Court for an explanation or that the Constitutional Court is referencing whether the issue is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. I believe this time the Parliament will take advantage of its ability, its commitment, even though last time it did not take advantage and that the Constitutional Court will refer. My opinion is personally that it is not in accordance with the Constitution and that the Constitutional Court will decide as well. But the government doesn't have anything to do with it anymore. We're here to decide whether we're going to a referendum or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68553	The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68554	I'm glad we're sharing an opinion, and I'm sorry HDZ doesn't have such a president anymore. I agree with the government that there is not much, I agree that everything before us is represented or before constitutional judges, therefore I do not know what is waiting for this debate to be opened and that the threat is already removed from the back of most of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68555	Mirela Holly replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68556	As a member of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, I was generally not planning on talking about this report because as a member of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, I am somewhat disappointed with my experience in the work of this committee when we talk about the rights of national minorities because this experience comes down to the following. In fact, the representatives of the majority from different ideological positions deal with some fundamental rights of national minorities such as language and letter rights and use it as a polygon for their ideological, populist bickering. On the other hand, representatives of national minorities are fighting and pummeling about finance and the allocation of funds intended to finance minority communities, and are urging official representatives of the authorities to arbitration in this regard. They are accused by those members of national minorities who are not represented in the Assembly or in councils of using money in a non-transparent way for purposes that have absolutely nothing to do with the projects of national minorities, and as a representative I have received a whole series of performances of this type and by e.g. representatives of the Roma communities and by representatives of the Serb minority. And at the end of the day, what's going on? The competent institutions, like the authorities, wash their hands and nothing concrete happens after promoting what is truly the very rights of the national minorities and I hope that things will still be fixed in that part and that we will really start dealing with concrete things, with concrete projects and not just money and ideological bickering.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68557	Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68558	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. This speech, I don't know that Cain's hidden? The coat of arms, yes. So this speech was pure demagogy without any specific data. Namely, demagogy and a hundred times told a lie that Cyrillic is as much a Croatian letter as Serbian or Serbian as it is Croatian. In fact, throughout history it is true that one form of Cyrillic was, but history is history, the chronology of events produced that today's Croatian letter is a Latin letter. And that's a hundred times the repeated lie that Cain repeated this way from the pay phone, he wants it to be true. The second thing, we asked for a debate on the situation in Vukovar, the HDSSB club, with the help of the other MPs from the opposition, asked for a debate. That proposal is always at 60, and I don't know which 82nd place to deal with it. Furthermore, the Serbian national minority in Vukovar has never asked for bilingual tables. There's never been an official request for that. Who's pushing it? In the SR of the Socialist Republic, there were never bilingual tables in Vukovar, in that country to say South and mostly Serbian domination. There was never a bilingual board in Vukovar. What are we doing here today, and why are we denying the signatures of 650 thousand adult citizens? What are you talking about? You will ban singing Thompson in Istria as you have forbidden, you will ban a referendum in Istria, you will ban and then your colleague will sing Chavoglava in Istria, and there he sang. Despite you, he was singing and what you're going to do to him now. You have nothing to do with life.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68559	But in replicas, we should be led by something else, not in this way, because this was also a demagogy. Demagogy is not forbidden in politics. The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68560	I'm not defending anyone. I don't know, maybe Peja just opened his mouth like some others did on other continents. Nor am I ideologically bickering here, nor is that my intention. And indeed, I don't think Mr. Grubisic is the 650 thousand signatures of the adult citizens of the Republic of Croatia demagogy. And that's a lot, and it's a very serious political issue because asking in the way this group of Cyrillics in Vukovar or I don't know where, I'm going to repeat what is the Croatian letter as much as the Serbian letter, is actually the question and position of other minorities in the Republic of Croatia either Italian in Istria or in the Primorje-Gorski County, whether in one Daruvar, whether in your Slavonia, whether I know Roma in one Međimurje. And finally, what's historically not true is that the Cyrillic was used before the Latin along with the verb? So I said earlier in the discussion that, for example, this Cyrillic was written there in the 12th century at the heart of Istria in St. Peter in the woods. Were there pavilions or others in those monasteries or monasteries of theirs I don't know. But it's just a fact. And don't, gentlemen, like the fascists between the two wars said with shrimp, they're removing the churches from my Buzet to Hum and then the Glagolitic inscriptions do the same thing in 2014 with Cyrillic or I don't know what I'm going to call them plates.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68561	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68562	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Caine, at the beginning of your report, you immediately set off with the plates in Vukovar and you said that it was not possible for you today to have someone in Istria remove bilingual records as it seems in Vukovar. But it's not the same, and you know it's not the same because setting up bilingual panels in Vukovar wasn't any civilization step here, but it was an act of provoking the ruling ones and we're all aware of it. Because if it weren't for that, we wouldn't have had a protest and we wouldn't be putting up such bilingual plates with the police at night or at night. But I don't think you can imagine an Italian minority in Istria celebrating fascist crimes, not having parades in that city. If you remember only the women's basketball championships in Vukovar where they waved Serbian flags on Cyrillic Vukovar and where they were spoken and sang, the "knife, wire, Srebrenica" Scandicated that it wasn't really the same. And that there was no comment from the rulings. And that only adds to the tension. And definitely those records in Vukovar that you're talking about have become a real wall between government and citizens. And you're aware of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68563	A colleague, Babic, was in line with the law and not with any provocation. Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68564	Mr. Babic, why did I start out simply with this under quotes "a referendum on Cyrillic"? Because when we talk about minority issues in the Republic of Croatia at this point, there is no more serious question than that. We can normally say what makes everyone think that some people come to work or don't get to work, but I'm saying this is one of the most serious if not the most serious minority issue of the Republic of Croatia right now. And I will remind you what else I have said, as your government has come into the situation that no matter what Sanader spoke on the Split Riviera, no matter what you said, I don't mean you, but the HDZ Club in these benches there in the period 2000 to 2003, no matter what you did, you were forced to do by quotes, I won't call it any standards European and simply hand it over to The Hague Court, there you will be called to the Constitutional Law on Cooperation with the same, most celebrated Croatian generals. The other thing I'm going to tell you is that in Istria, dear Mr. Babic, he doesn't manifest any fascist traits. The only thing that can appear are letters U on our facades and I also invite people don't just do it because that's how you insult the memory of the Istrians. Exactly, when you compare Istria or Vukovar, we are not the same. But I'll tell you the same thing between the two wars, Istria leaves a huge number of Slavics, Croats, Slovenians. After World War II, with the cataclysm that our people have been going through, Istria is leaving 140 thousand people, but in parallel, from the very beginning, it has been trying to keep the population together with minority standards.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68565	Thank you very much. Shime Luchin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68566	Thank you very much. You mentioned your colleague Cain, and you talked about the fear of members of the national minority, which is why they do not consume their rights under this law. So we have a relatively good law, unfortunately because of the fear those rights that are prescribed by this law do not consume. And I'm asking myself a question both for you and for myself why this fear is in the hands of members of the national minorities. Then should I be more direct? How much in this assembly do we contribute to that fear by speaking of others, equating war criminals with members of individual national minorities? Have we wondered where our responsibility is? As long as we have, and when we have the ideal law, if there is any fear, we fail. So we're not working hard enough on the atmosphere, the atmosphere of tolerance and freedom. First of all, we're here in the Parliament. And so I think that often our rhetoric also contributes to it. And around Cyrillic, I don't know if we agree that using the letter of national minorities is a human right? If that is human rights and I believe it is, then I think we could agree very quickly that even human rights issues should not be a matter of referendum. Because you know where it might lead us, I'm not going to talk about it at all because I could give you a million examples of what would possibly go to the referendum and actually where we would be as a society and as a state. So I think it's one of the great drawbacks or damages, and I hope that we'll make it right that we haven't started to change the Constitution because I think it's still for some who don't understand the Constitution that human rights can't be the subject of a referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68567	Thank you very much. Answer Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68568	Maybe not, I didn't seem to mention fear, but the fact is, the chances were better when we talk about this minority problem yesterday than they are today, and why is that, because someone is consciously using all these war traumas, all these war frustrations, all these frustrations that we're related to this one economic situation. Someone is consciously using these ideological differences to strike at the weakest and the weakest wanted me to admit it to myself or not exactly the members of the national minorities. Well, there are all of them together, I don't know just 7% or 8%, so let's not just show these political differences on them. Croatia can only lose because of this and we as members of the majority people will get nothing. Individuals can profit politically, but you are ultimately aware that our Croatia will lose.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68569	And Nejad Hodzic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68570	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Cain, you have given full support to the Cyrillic letter and I absolutely support you there and I will say one thing that Istria and Rijeka can be proud of and this country can say. So, despite the legacy of Italy as it is, my friend who is Serbian by nationality at the Italian school in Rijeka teaches Croatian, should anything be added to that? The country has achieved all political goals, Abnoje's borders, independence, the NATO Pact, the EU. All her enemies across the Danube can probably be sad about it. We must set a standard so that we really show that in the creation of this country we have had noble initiatives and that that part of the remaining Serbian population we guarantee its rights, which we have talked about today's Constitutional Law today. And all of this with which it is politicized is not worth finally sending a bad message to Croats living outside this country and creating them in this way much worse conditions for life outside Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68571	The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68572	When we talk about an inheritance, not only do the Istrians have a memory or memory with that Italian heritage but it was certainly not that post-war communist heritage mainly in those earlier years or in those first two decades was much more tender toward the Istrians. At that time, after the war of 47, or 54, 140 Istrians left those areas, somewhere around 40,000 Rijeka, 10 thousand people left and went away from the territory of Zadar, so we no longer need such ideologies as they were referring to the Istrian spaces.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68573	On behalf of the Club of Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HGS colleague Jadranka Kosor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68574	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Associate Minister of Management. Here I will try to sublime somehow what seems to me to be the main idea in the debate so far, but I will present the views of my Club, so speaking of this report as always when we talk about the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, we are actually talking about the achievements, the standards that we have as a democratic state here today as a member of the NATO Alliance and the EU have reached out to ourselves, and in fact we are talking about this report for 2012 and we are talking about finally and at the beginning and at the end of all, and the Croatian Constitution and the original foundations of the Croatian Constitution, where we have, in particular, agreed on changes to the Constitution in 2010, further what we want to submit through the Constitutional Law and through today's debate, so we have built that the Republic of the Croatian peoples and national minorities, which we have said. And I think that, really, without any demagogy, we have to be proud because we are actually discussing this report, and we're actually discussing how we've been developing over the years, in which way we've built our country despite the fact that we've been to a terrible and bloody war in the 1990s, aggression, that we've faced huge victims, and that's why I'm going to use this opportunity to remind myself of what we've often and many times and here I remember when I came to the Croatian Parliament, it means 95th and that in '96, when some laws were passed and always pointed out that minorities are really rich of the Republic. It was very, very important to point out precisely at those years, both during the war and after the war we won. So, '91. the first constitutional law on minority rights, on human rights, I remind you of '96. when President Tudjman actually signed all key documents on human rights and the rights of national minorities to become a member of the Council of Europe. So on our European path we adopted, accepted and implemented the most standards and thus became part of the great European family, so in '96. It's important on that road. Especially important, certainly the President's decision, President Tudjman's decision concerning both peaceful reintegration, preservation, respect and promotion of minority rights in these circumstances when the president decides on a peaceful walk to full and complete freedom, until the return of Podunut and Vukovar to the Constitutional and Legal Order of the Republic of Croatia, has always been followed by this concern about the rights of national minorities. I was among those who had the special honour of being with the president in Vukovar in the special one, I would say to the expedition organised by General Klein when the president was there for the first time in Vukovar, so who was not yet part of the constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Croatia, addressed especially at one meeting and representatives of the Serb national minority, so in a container where he gave a historic speech and told them this is Croatia, but all of your rights we will protect and promote and we will build together the Republic. The president's speech in '97 is also important on that road. in Vukovar, when the Peace Train arrived, where he specifically addressed all the representatives of the local government, so to the members of the Serb national minority and where he said that famous and historical sentence that must guide us whenever we talk about this sometimes very sensitive issue, such as bilingualism, bilingualism, etc. President Tudjman said "a winner who cannot forgive, sows the cry of new evil" and it is time to remind ourselves of that and when we talk about this report that is before us because we always speak through it, and in particular we did it in our negotiations to join the EU that we should not and that the sovereign people, the self-aware people of their achievements should not be afraid of others and different. That is why we have also passed many other laws, the Law on Discussing Discrimination and that is also said in this report. Constitutional law, which is in force today, so we passed a large and general consensus in the Croatian Parliament in 2002. I remember this debate alive as if it were today and especially the debate of a respected colleague of the Seks, who said that we really want to have the most standards and that we want to order it to Urbi et Orbi. I remember that sentence because it has to be remembered forever because the implementation of this law is still often a place of stumbling, and we as a member of the EU, I am sure that when we talk about legislation and even this law, we can truly be an example of many and old EU members. I mentioned the negotiations and chapter 23, of course, that the issue of national minorities, respect for the rights of national minorities and the implementation and implementation of this law was an important issue and that if we had not fully met it, we would not have closed Chapter 23 and would not have completed the negotiations and would not have been the 28th member of the EU. Of course, one part, one segment of the issue was the return of refugees for which we, as a state and as a government, had to allocate considerable resources in the meantime. But both the European path and respect for minority rights were our decision, our decision, the Croatian people and the Croatian state, from beginning to end and so I believe they will be in the future. This is a typical report, I will not enter into particulars, I will only briefly refer to this part that speaks about the implementation of a document called "Decade for Roma", i.e. documents related to the rights and the exercise of the rights of the most sensitive minority, not only in Croatia, but throughout Europe, therefore, Roma. We were the leader, so since 01 July 2012, for a year we chaired the Decade for the Roma, I must say that in Croatia it did not feel particularly, and I am sorry, in that sense we should have been louder and stronger because we have what to say. Much has been done to protect this most sensitive national minority, but for example, just as the legalisation of Roma settlements, the construction of infrastructure, should also be said today that no government, which is not alone, no matter how much money invested, but must be uninterrupted in agreement and in coordination with local administration. I would like to point out in particular, so from the time I led the Committee on Roma as Deputy Prime Minister, excellent cooperation with the Međimurje County, excellent really cooperation, we have solved a really very difficult issue about Lower Dubrava, so the conditions in which people are unimaginably difficult to live through this cooperation have turned into conditions worthy of human life. Similarly, it seems to me that we have increased three times the number of children involved in kindergarten and something important that all Roma children who want to continue their education, so they want to attend high school or colleges have secured scholarships. I believe that's how it is today. I would also like to refer to the part of the report that speaks about the identity cards in the language and the letter of the national minorities. As we see in most parts, that is, for the largest number of members of the national minorities, the number of required IDs guaranteed by the Constitutional Law is increasing. It is good to note, for example, that, for example, the Ministry of Justice, or the whole set of judicial authorities, conducts additional education related to the rights that minority members have in courts. I would like to remind myself that in the 2010 report on the implementation of the Minor Rights Constitutional Law, the MUP specifically pointed out that it would conduct additional educations on the right of members of national minorities to bilingual or bilingual identity cards. The funds are significant, but I think that the funds of more than 133 million should not be specifically discussed at a political level but only always, regardless of what is a sensitive subject, always debated and discussed in a way that determines whether these funds have been adequately used, whether they have gone to the right places in the right hands and whether they have been used for the right purpose, therefore, in the manner that the Constitutional Law on Minority Rights requires and requires. And finally, in the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of Minorities, we must never give up, regardless of the various political views, regardless of the fact that there will always be those on the political scene who hold that Croatia is only for Croats, and that the rest of the guests, regardless of which, the majority always speaks of Croatia as a country that looks forward to a country that is home to everyone who respects it, who implements its laws and that I believe however very quickly now, as well as the EU member, are not because who, where someone is born, is whose name but only by that, and especially in political space, eats someone honest, capable and determined and certainly brave or is often a coward who is often hiding behind other people's backs. Thank you very much. I support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68575	Vice President Nenad Stazic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68576	Dear colleagues Kosor, you are rightly pointing out the Croatian Constitution in which all national minorities are listed, and you are rightly and proudly pointing out the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities because that is indeed something that we can all be proud of. But the Constitution can often be one thing and practice the other. In Stalin's Soviet Union was the most beautiful constitution, the practice was completely different. Both the Constitution and the constitutional laws and all other laws and all other legal acts are important in the exercise or protection of the rights of national minorities, but it is an important practice and I would dare say the atmosphere that is created above all by those most responsible. You speak here of the praise of the first President Tudjman, and you see I remember his statement that he is happy that his wife is neither Serbian nor Jewish. I remember that statement, and I also remember that this happiness was shared with him by all HDZ members because no one opposed, because no one raised their voice and said this is not an example of how to treat national minorities. We today have the Constitutional Law on the right of national minorities to have their own letter, but we also have the practice of breaking Cyrillic plates, bilingual plates, but also the practice of not objecting to it but has a lot of understanding for such a procedure. We still have a statement today or recently that Croatia is only for the Croats and that everyone in it is a guest, but we also have a party that puts that person on its EU list. There are nice laws, there are important laws, there are important laws, there's the Constitution, there's the constitutional law, there's more to it than that, there's more to it than that the atmosphere that we have in the country of tolerance, the acceptance of those who are other and different.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68577	The answer to the replica of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68578	I did not praise the first Croatian president, I spoke about the facts by quoting his speech in Vukovar and everything the president signed. I did not mention, for example, the fact that he proposed in '96 and we did so, for example, here in the Croatian Parliament of the Law on Abolization, etc. So these are all and his decision was a peaceful reintegration. These are all the decisions they place truly among the particularly great people in the Croatian people and will be remembered in history. So the job of someone in particular statesmen should be seen as a total and always as a whole, and we all had in our work sometimes both rises and downs, but the overall action and fact that I reminded them that in '96 he signed all documents that were important and in protecting human rights and minority rights shows that he directed the Croatian ship in the right absolutely in the right direction. Finally, his idea was that Croatia must be an EU member and this is the historic goal we finally achieved. However, I agree with you that we can have the best laws, but practice is what legitimizes us ultimately, and that practice always potentiates and directs politics and politicians again. Unfortunately, or fortunately, it's hard for me to decide.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68579	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68580	Thank you. You have told colleagues Kosor that Croatia has in Europe by comparing itself with other EU countries and old members, mostly or above standards. I'd just point at having the highest standards of all states. In fact, I was in an old member of France as an observer of the Croatian Parliament and I was asked a little bit, and I was told that there are no national minorities in France. They're all French. And those who moved from Morocco and those from Algeria and Baska in the southern part of France and the Valons in the north and the Germans in... No Germans, all French. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All I.D.s, all documents are written exclusively in French. There's no Arabic, there's no other. So when we compare that and our standards, then really the difference is huge. Furthermore, you mentioned that all those who feel Croatia as their home so the door is open to them in Croatia. Look, the word home is a very widespread word and you could be like someone else was right for that word home, for home was he sad. Tell them to be houses, so they must be said either for the house in battle at the opera Nikola Šubić Zrinski or for the house in battle. I don't know how to say that, do I? Furthermore, Slavonia, just like yours and mine, is exactly the true example of this life of one another or the co-existence of many national minorities such as are not in other parts of Croatia, in this number, with the majority people. Indeed, looking at Lipik and Pakari, Italian, Serbian, Hungarian and all the other minorities we have, the Russian, Ukrainians is just one example of such a life, and I would love for all of them to feel like their own home, not to ask God to rain elsewhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68581	Thank you very much. Replication response, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68582	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic, I think you should always look at life positively. So when we talk about this question, that you're right, I grew up in a neighborhood where there were a lot of members of a particularly Italian national minority and I went to school with them. So here is the first mayor of Lipik that I remember well, so in free Croatia he was just a member of the Italian national minority. Thus, yes, it speaks of how life was lived and how it was respected. I said we have particularly high standards. I think we should be proud of that when we talk about all the other EU members, but I don't think we should suffer from the complex that we are constantly comparing ourselves with the larger ones, so that's how it is with them. We have our own way, we have had our way, we have had our way, we have our way, we have our way, we have our way, we have our way, we have our way, we have our way, we have our independence, we have our terrible war, we have our aggression, and we have our way here from EU entry. So I think we need this very fact that we have particularly high standards to highlight as something good and something commendable. And as for your observations about the word "home," no, I'm not absolutely without a complex saying that this is home and that this country as I'm always equal and without any figurines in my pocket condemned any and any flirting with the constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68583	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68584	Dear colleagues, Kosor, in your presentation, you spoke, quoting a few sentences that the first President Tudjman spoke, especially about winners who cannot forgive. Unfortunately, those who swear to the first President of Tudjman accept only what suits them and who do not conflict with their narrowness. It's actually a denial of the man he's sworn to because if you accept it then you should accept his all state and error and the advantages he has both as a man and as a statesman. However, I agree, someone used to say, we need to separate laws that are good and practice that are often not good. Well, I'm sure it wasn't even a good practice to keep Vukovar out of dialogue. One side and the other was confused and there was no deviation on either side. With the government and Mr Milanovic, who is quite right to say that respect for Croatian laws needed more state wisdom and more patience and I think that these problems could be solved for sure in Vukovar. However, when you take firm attitudes, not only do you shoot principles, but sometimes the bones shoot.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68585	Replication response, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68586	Well, I agree with you, colleague Vuksic, on the position and role of President Tudjman and on the interpretation of what he was doing and what he was saying. So, Tudjman doesn't have to come back just for what's right with us, but he should go back to Tudjman if we have to go back to us who never left him, so we never left him. So, I have nothing to go back to, and I've been with the president until he leaves this world, so I have nothing to go back to. But the whole thing is to look at what he's been doing and the whole thing needs to look at the messages he's left us and respecting the rights of national minorities. As far as Vukovar is concerned, the laws are certainly one thing, so let us remember that report in 2010 on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, where the then Government proudly pointed out everything we had done in this regard and, among other things, it was written there that the Statute of the city of Vukovar was also changed for bilingualism, etc. So Vukovar is really a special place and one is the laws that need to be applied and another is the way in which these laws should be applied. In Vukovar, I was saying this from the beginning was supposed to take small steps, in my opinion I said it a hundred times the Prime Minister should go there and talk not to the headquarters but to representatives of all associations from the Homeland War, the victim, mayor, representatives of the City Council but also to representatives of minorities and put the problem on the table and say that we will come to a solution because it is not only a symbol of Croatia's suffering but it is a symbol and resistance and I would dare say that the symbol and victory should be approached in another way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68587	Joseph Salapic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68588	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Mrs Kosor, I think the time has come for the Republic of Croatia to be considered a state of all Croatian citizens regardless of their nationality because it is too much of the way and effort and a lot of life has been given for the state of Croatia, for its independence and for its international recognition. So whether someone is in power today or in opposition should speak the same way, think but implement all those laws when it comes to Croatian citizens of different nationalities. I think that's the most important thing. You mentioned the late President Tudjman, so I think his merits are immeasurable because if it wasn't for him and the establishment of HDZ then we might be in another country today, so that these historical merits of persons who have made an immeasurable contribution to the foundations of Croatian statehood shouldn't be pushed into any daily political cause, nor should we allow others to insult what was proudly done for the Croatian state. I personally advocate that, in these constitutional changes, if there are any or some future ones in any case, regardless of the issue of the Constitutional Court should be the guardian of the Croatian Constitution and that in each referendum, you should mention in your speech 650 thousand signatures collected by the Vukovar Defence Department regarding the application of the law or the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities that the Constitutional Court should have its role, that it should be a firm guardian of the Constitution and that I should swear to every referendum to give my opinion because it is his role as its member in the Croatian State. Finally, the level of protection of rights and Croats outside Croatia should be other countries and especially in neighbouring countries, let's say in Serbia that the same level should be as we have made it possible for all in Croatia. Then the situation would be completely different and that's my view of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68589	Replication response, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68590	Thank you very much. Well, I'm glad we devoted some time to the first Croatian president in this debate. I would have concluded that with one single finding. He was also a brave man with everything else, courageous, and it decorated him in making many terribly difficult decisions because he saw three steps away from many others and many others, let no one offend politics and in his time, and he was one of those politicians who, if he had signed something, would no longer give up and let alone be ashamed. So that's the bottom line here is my opinion of him when we get back to him. As far as the referendum is concerned. So, I repeat once again, the referendum has collected a sufficient number of signatures. These are the signatures of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the Parliament cannot ignore that. The government has no business with that anymore. This is where we decide. The debate should be organised as soon as possible, as long as it lasts, and the Assembly should finally pass, that is my opinion, it will be my proposal and a proposal to conclude as well as the last time we discussed some Constitutional Court assess whether it is in accordance with the Constitution. Of course, we can decide for ourselves, or most of us can decide yes or no, not to go, but I think that would be completely wrong. So, let's use those mechanisms that the laws allow us to do, and in this case which the laws tell us to do, and let's try to agree on amendments to the Constitution of colleagues Salapic so that if we do nothing else, we can settle the matter of calling a referendum. That remains an unresolved question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68591	Marin Jurevic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68592	Thank you. Dear colleagues Kosor, here you and I came to the Croatian Parliament the same year, so you can certainly testify that it was never good when hatred, when the breath of exclusion and impatience felt in this hall. It was never worth it at the time, and I am grateful to you for mentioning hate as something that is devastating and dangerous for all of us and especially for the world of politics, because in the present circumstances, it is the world that decides, to the greatest extent, to say the quality of the community in which some policy rules. You've mentioned here a lot of stories about the late President Tudjman, I wouldn't say much about him because there are very different opinions about this or his moves, and as far as the speech in Vukovar is concerned, I would certainly call on those, his speech in Vukovar, those who call on him so often to remind themselves of the words he's spoken there, because he often feels a great discrepancy between those who appear to the public as protectors, the only authorized protectors of his character and actions, and I hope for all of them to think badly about defending but also all that well, therefore, the only ones who think they are the only protectors to remember those words and to be followers of those words that call not for hatred, not conflict but tolerance. I do not intend to talk about Cyrillic, etc., but I must remind you that there is indeed something called the Croatian Cyrillic, you know that there is also a Bosnian and a verb, etc., down below one plate that is not on the Latin. So what? Well, size isn't about the people to suppress what was his, it's about being proud of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68593	Thank you. Replication response, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68594	Yeah, I agree. I think hate is generally, and especially in politics a very bad master because those who hate the lords they are unable to see, are not able to hear, are unable to recognize so that I agree with you. Here we are slowly reminded of those years when we entered the Parliament, but from that time because I also mentioned the Law of Abolition and the Constitutional Law of 2002 when I was equally a representative of the opposition for which I raised my hand. So what we have done and what we have committed to political work should not be ashamed and should not be denied. That's what we've done and consciously, I mean like grown-ups. So it's something that should normally be a practice in politics and that, at least I'm talking about myself. I think a man changes over the years and for the better. That's how it should be to see mistakes, to realize that he was unfair to some, that he might have been wrong. It's the same topic that we're actually discussing in the broadest context right now. There's no colleague of Cain here. I remember when I chaired those years at the Parliament's session, I'd get all upset when he came for the pay phone, because I knew he'd attack hard and I'd have to coordinate. And now he's come into some quieter waters, and I believe he's changed some attitudes over time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68595	Memories are always nostalgic. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68596	Well, here's my colleague and I will refer and replicate to the part where you rightly say that every policy and good policy must have a lack of hate. You specifically mentioned this word that I think is particularly important about these issues when we talk about them because whatever they're saying to me is essentially and whatever they're talking about, how we talk about ourselves the most. But it's always easier to encourage hate than to command love. Love binds, and hate is optional. However, in the political life that you especially and apostrophe, I would also like to stress in particular is the great responsibility of those who perform publicly. In fact, they hate you, nor are they burdened with any feeling only by their own interests and act only by encouraging people especially in times of suspense and crisis of low feelings, hatred to gain their political benefit. Because that's what they do in their personal lives and how they live their personal lives. They have a narrow and wider family and minorities, they do business with such individuals, so they develop their jobs, and here they feed and political lives, or they want to live in political life in exactly the same way. It is something that is unforgivable, and fear in essence and that is what we must do here together, regardless of which political colors in the Croatian Parliament reveal those who are worse than those they manipulate. They're hypocrites, they're these hypocrites that cause low passions, feelings of less value in people, manipulate them, who are unable to communicate, who are somehow trapped in the darkest part of their own personality in their monologue. And that's why it seems to me that we need to talk about it all the time, and that's why we have to fight it hard, because the 20th century has been a tragedy because of hate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68597	Thank you, colleague. Reply n replica Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68598	My colleagues, Antičević-Marinović, mention the low passions in politics. It's also a very interesting topic. The easiest thing to do with this job is to make it easier for people, with a large number of people to encourage low passion especially when it comes to sensitive issues such as work, such as suffering, such as sacrifice. The easiest thing to do is to encourage them with low passions. Unfortunately, I know a lot of politicians, and I believe you who are able to do it insensitively, and then turn to your life and go to the sea, go enjoy yourself and no longer wonder what is wrong with the people who have caught up in their net of low passions. Because, unfortunately, for objective reasons, people are often often and under-informed and under-educated and I dare say and under-educated. And when you stab them with low passions as a politician in finding a place, in the most painful place, then you have a huge responsibility because it can turn into a big, heavy and incurable wound.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68599	Nejad Hodzic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68600	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Kosor, I would first and foremost like to support your discussion today on this subject and I would like to congratulate you. Namely, the messages you've sent, and that's what they're going for, is that we need to look into the future is what this country needs. If we were to return to wartime, if I were to return to my Bijeljina all the time, so the city that was first attacked by great Serb aggression in Bosnia and Herzegovina and where I had parents and a six-year-old son, if I were to return to Zvornik who was the second city to be confused in the great Serbian aggression from where my wife and of course all her family were from the hatred and memory of these evil times, I could not do anything else and could not function as a human. I've been since '88. years here, and imagine those people down there who lived through my mother who had to go out of Bijeljina with my six-year-old son through Serbia, Hungary, Austria to Croatia to make me 30.8.92. He was exiled to Herzegovina and barely illegally returned to Italy. We need a future! This country, new generations, need a future, not a constant memory of the evil that has happened. The price of the independent state of Croatia was this evil, which unfortunately we all lived together. We defended her all someone like this, someone in that way, and we don't need to talk about it anymore. The wounds and bones should not be touched, they should be given a pitet and turned to the future and I think the messages you sent today in this House are on that trail. I thank you again for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68601	Replication response, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68602	You're saying we need a future and you're actually reminding us of what General Gotovina said. So someone who carried so much weight during the war and his whole life and then in HAAG who comes back and says turn to the future. It's something that should inspire us every day because if someone like him can do it, then so can all of us. So, I think we should talk about war, so we can't forget what happened, not Srebrenica or Vukovar, and we have to keep coming back, but in a way that's encouraging us, to be smarter and better in the future and in the present, today, but certainly tomorrow. But none of this must be forgotten and we must not, in the name of some peace and co-existence, skip or falsify the facts. It wouldn't, it would be just as wrong, and it would actually bring down the foundations of what I believe, and we all or most of us here want to. But we must also speak openly that it does not degrade and disqualify us when we say that we do not agree with those politicians, and there are also among those who have gone to the European Parliament, who are still saying that the war in Croatia has not ended. The war ended, ladies and gentlemen, the war ended years ago, '98. Finally, the story was closed by returning Vukovar to the constitutional and legal order, and then we turned to what is called the future. But forever, so forever fighting wars, that would be wrong. Don't forget, it's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68603	Thank you very much. Now we'll set a break by 15.00 hours, and the first in line will be the SDSS Club and colleague of Mile Horvat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68604	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue to discuss clubs. On behalf of the SDSS Club, a respected colleague of Mile Horvat will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68605	I thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. I will try as these colleagues before me today in the debate, and what members of the National Minorities Club say about how we members of the national minorities today and from this time distance, since it is 2012 we see the realization of certain parts of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. For us members of national minors other than the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities is practical, so to speak the Bible, which is the basic way for us to protect a certain amount of rights offered to national minorities. It's some kind of political umbrella under which national minorities are protected and placed. In the opening part of the report's argument, it was said very well, "The Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU, the Republic of Croatia, has committed itself, so it has undertaken to pass a new Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities. At its meeting on 13 December 2002, the Croatian Parliament adopted a decision to declare the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in which the highest standards of protection of national minorities were installed at the time," it explains... With this assessment, we agree and think that this is a key thing, a key thing for future discussions and future political relations and the view of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. In 2012, there was 10 years of existence of this Constitutional Law, and if it is said that at that time in 2002, when the Constitutional Law was passed, there was a certain political subtlety, wisdom, although it was politically highly opportunized to pass such a constitutional law with such a level of protection of minority rights, we see no reason why today there would be no such wisdom or why this wisdom today would be much different and why, as it has been trying lately, it would be affecting certain parts of the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities. I fully agree with the findings of my colleague Kosor who said that through the development and improvement of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities has shown the development of our society, which is very acceptable for us. Minorities don't have to, and I don't think they're trying to be the wealth of this society, minorities just want to and think they should be citizens of the Republic of Croatia in all elements and then minorities in the Republic of Croatia will be satisfied with their status. This report has one drawback, and this is the 2012 report. We think that in a political sense, the 2013 report should be adopted and analysed. This one should have been analysed long ago since 2012, but since we know that it is a problem that is constantly emerging in all reports in this way and it will probably be processed in 2013, probably in 2014, then we can generally discuss the position of national levels on this day by reference to this report in 2012. For us in a technical sense, it is correct and acceptable because it has very well detected the things that have been achieved, the things that have not been done, its lack is the only thing that has not been better analysed by reasons in some segments of the reasons why it has not consistently come to the application of certain parts of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. We often talk about these things and often repeat ourselves but I have a feeling that if we didn't repeat certain things and a certain problem, it wouldn't be solved in the way that at least one part of it has been solved. So again, I will draw out certain things from this report and 4 groups of questions that we think the report has warned that they have not been properly or that provisions have not been consistently implemented on certain life situations. The official use of language and letters is a matter that is widely spoken, so the legal basis is also in Article 10. The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities as well as in Article 28. Law on the use of language and letters of national minorities. We have this very difficult story called the Cyrillic in Vukovar, but it's not just that. We have situations where certain local self-governments have legal conditions to mark their places in a certain way, to enter their places, to place inscriptions in their native language and letter that certain objects are marked in this way and now we have analyzed the situation and we have seen that so far nowhere in those local self-governments where there are legal conditions, it has not been placed anywhere on the entrance to the village bilingual board and that the other name is on Cyrillic. We followed everything and we came to the point that those who conditionally brake them are Croatian roads. So Croatian roads are a state-owned company that is very clear to the day of today, so it was in 2012 as it is today 2014. Still in all possible ways trying to avoid the obligation to set up that vertical signalling in a way that allows the placing of bilingual tables. A very simple question arises as to how it is possible for a state-owned company not to implement current regulations and then, if some citizens are already aware of their own civic conscience, it is the question of how it is possible that without some coincidences, a state-owned company does so. It's a matter that needs to be discussed in general. The report itself states that minority members do not use the right to use minority language because of lack of interest. We think the reasons are someone else. We still think that in a number of cases when it comes to personal documents, court trials or public speech in some areas people especially members of the Serb community do not use their own language and their letter of concern, out of fear of calling, of not having any incidents, of having any kind of inconvenience at that time. So, we think we still haven't reached as a society such a degree of social tolerance or social hygiene, that the consumption of such individual rights that may be more subtle but guaranteed, would not make people uncomfortable. When we skip that barrier level, I think there will be a greater interest in consummating these minority institutes, such as language and letter, guaranteed by law. There was also a lot of talk about education and education in the language and the letter. But I have to do it again. This report does not show this very clearly, but the real situation says that in 8 municipalities in the east, problems of school registration in Serbian language and letter have been solved. Therefore, they should be registered because there are conditions guaranteed by the Constitution and the law, the share of the inhabitants exceeds one third. Moreover, the statutes of these local self-government are clearly foreseen. These are municipalities such as Jagodnjak, Borovo, Negoslavci, Markusica, White Hill, etc. etc. So eight of those municipalities. And there is an interest that 8 such schools are registered in Serbian and letter. This has not been done in 2012. We don't see why when there's all the legal conditions. This has not been done in 2014. I don't think it's going to happen in 2015. Not yet harmonised programs, not included, so school programs educational. The content of school programmes important for the Serbian national minority is not included. There are no number of significant Serbs in the textbooks in all fields of life. Let me just mention Milutin Milankovic or Sima Matavulj. I might as well mention some more. The actions and influence of members of the Serbian community, Serbian intelligence, Serbian sciences are not being handled. Events in which they significantly historically participated, i.e. they participated in the construction of a Croatian cultural being, which our teaching programs do not consume. Minority language textbooks are being reduced. In 2012, they were reduced by a million and a half kuna, which certainly reflected the quality of printing books, providing free textbooks for members of national minorities. In any case, this also reflected the work of summer and winter minority schools, which are educated under a special programme for minorities, etc. etc. So that's what we're saying in the budget as a lack of budget. The amendments were submitted for the budget this year, but we can also conclude that almost identical problems occur every year in the field of education. The Councils of National Minorities as a form of participation of members of national minorities in public life have largely reduced to a cultural and folklore component, which was not the legislator's intensities. When the National Minorities Council was formed, their role was very different. They should have been informed of what is being decided in local self-government, they should have solved their subjectivity by now. Not everyone has solved their subjectivity yet. Funding has not been resolved specifically in areas of special state concern in a way that would allow for the functional existence of these councils. 243 councils were enrolled in the fifth month of 2003. I'm warning you, so it's not a small number. In 2012, the Office of Minority Rights had to intervene financially, so 74 councils received some kind of assistance from 3700 kuna so that they could exist at all. And we're talking about some kind of minority self-government, we're talking about the functioning and function of the National Minority Council. We think, while on the other hand, we have a situation for certain cities to allocate significantly greater resources to the Council of National Minorities, which is often the subject of some political agreements. And then the question arises whether it meets the basic function of these National Minority Councils as locals. We think it is not and we think that this funding should be a unique model and a unique pattern at the level of the entire Republic of Croatia, rather than depending on the amount of funding, depends on the will and mood of the leaders and local self-government. The next question that we have talked about a lot and we often talk about, but it is a matter that needs to be addressed, and it bothers us that this is certainly a housing care as a basic component of the final completion of human return and reintegration. We have to conclude neither in 2012, nor in 2013, there has been an increase in socio-economic reintegration of returnees, no planned infrastructure projects have been completed, we have mentioned here and the waterways, the local roads and this famous electrification and the number of 40 villages that are still without electricity. We mention all of this, and we keep saying it every time and we see that the restoring ministries have also established through the implementation of the Constitutional Law that we were right and that this process has not ended. And unfortunately, we don't see a time when it will end in quality. I would like to remind you that, according to the article in Chapter 23, nearly 5,000 former tenants were to be taken care of. That's the government commitment we made when we closed Chapter 23, that's when we said we'd do it. We didn't do it. There are still some 1200 such cases left and there are still 4500 remaining requirements in the phase of determining their rights. The criteria have, however, been met for a certain number administratively but people are not physically taken care of as a result of lack of funds, and due to the lack of some other components. We pointed to that thing in both the past and the previous budget, and we claim it's a modus vivendi for us, so that's how to live a certain environment, so how to live a space of special state care. And without some quality state intervention and good political will, that thing itself will not be solved anyway. [[Stazić: Slowly bring the end, time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68606	Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68607	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68608	Thank you. We have a single replica reported. Dear Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68609	Thank you very much. You of this material conclude yourself that Croatia has singled out in terms of fulfilling the rights of national minorities, EUR 133.5 million. Given the way you like to say it, you said that the government's obligation is therefore to take care of all those who have escaped, returned, returnees, etc., but not only the government's obligation but also constitutional obligations is the right to work. So 400,000 inhabitants of Croatia are unemployed. Now, in this situation, I don't want to say that you're in your demands I won't say too much and talk about the state, and we know in which situation the state is in, given that you're in the ruling coalition too, I think you understand what situation this country is in and what all moves are doing to avoid budget deficits and everything else. And besides, you know how the funds that the Japanese government has allocated for the school in Velion have passed. So, absolutely one wastefulness, nontransparentity, non-fulfilment of the commitments made to the Japanese government. And you know how much money went to school in Veljun? So, when the money and you get it yourself, you're not, I'd say not you, but those in charge, they used it, but we even have a request from the Japanese government to pay back money for a school in Velion that belongs to a national minority, right? Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68610	The line matches the esteemed Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68611	Thank you. My colleague Grubisic, you have asked several questions here through your thesis, but what I have concluded is that the state is in a difficult state, so don't expect 400 thousand people to meet your demands and don't press us because we're in a crisis. And then we say there's a clumper because there's a school in Velion, some people around the school in Velion have abused an international donation. With Velion, I probably don't have quality information, maybe it is, maybe it isn't, I'm not contesting it. So there are some audit bodies, there are controls that will trace that money. But it's not good if this thing we keep talking about and it's called housing, return, reconstruction, etc. We are now undermining the result of the crisis in which we are as a society. This thing is 15 years old and over, we kept saying that there was political will at first today would be less trouble to end it because it would probably be over with more money then. And it's not good that some kind of relationship here right now in a society that is difficult and complex that this thing that is life-existent is very important for a certain group of people and not a small number of people are being led under this day-to-day policy. In addition, these are the international obligations that were at a time when we could benefit from this, when it was opportunised and important for the country we took over. So, did we take these obligations lightly then, so today we're having a hard time fulfilling it or are there other reasons why I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68612	We're continuing the club debate. In the name of the HDZ club, a respected colleague, Ante Babic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68613	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We shall be presented with a report by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the provisions of Article 37(3). Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, which is submitted at least 1 yearly to the Croatian Assembly Report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities as well as on the spending of funds provided in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for the needs of national minorities discussed today by the Croatian Assembly. The report covers different areas, from equal official use of the language and letters of national minorities, education and education in language and letter of national minorities, access to means of public communication, bilateral cooperation and others, and at the end of each part the assessment of the situation and recommendations has been made. Reading the assessment of the situation and recommendations, it can be seen that most measures have achieved a high degree of implementation, that positive shifts have been made and that all planned activities have been carried out or that they continue to work systematically on a particular area as reported today by the minister. This results in a total positive assessment of the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the spending of funds from the State budget for that purpose. What this report points out or problematises is insufficient progress in the representation of national minorities in the authorities of the state administration that we have heard of today from several colleagues. In this regard, the report states that such a situation conditioned the fact that it continued to give effect to the decision to ban the new employment of civil servants and substitutes in state administration bodies in December 2009 as a general result of a smaller number of new employment and thus a smaller number of employees of national minorities in the state administration. We think that this relatively negative employment situation should also be seen in the area of state administration in the context of the current economic situation. The current financial situation of our country has led to restrictions on employment, and this has affected worse results than planned. Although according to the Ministry of Administration's data on 31.12.2012, compared to 31.12.years earlier, the total number of state administration employees was reduced which did not have a major impact on the percentage share of national minorities in state administration bodies that was almost unchanged. Second, what is viewed as negative to this report is the official use of the language and letters of national minorities, regardless of what is on the agenda today, the report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities and the spending of funds for 2012 and we are also considering in 2014 it is impossible to discuss this topic and not to refer to the problem of bilingualism and the setting up of panels in Vukovar which took place in 2013 and were and are still at the focus of the political and general social public as we have witnessed today in the Croatian Parliament. Pluralism, tolerance and widespreadness are the protective signs of a democratic society and it is necessary to achieve a balance that ensures fair and proper treatment of national minorities and avoids any abuse of the ruling position. In this context, we must return to Vukovar and stress that the current Government of Abuse is ruling the situation and imposes on why Croatian society is not yet ready and, contrary to what is set out in Article 8 of the Constitutional Law on the exercise of the rights of national minorities, which is that the provisions of the Constitutional Law and the provisions of specific laws governing the rights and freedoms of members of national minorities must be interpreted and applied for the purpose of respecting members of national minorities and Croatian peoples of development, understanding, solidarity, tolerance and dialogue between them. In those areas where quality dialogue and tolerance have been established between members of the national minority and the majority population, legislative provisions on the equal official use of the language and letters of national minorities shall be implemented to contribute to the fact that the Republic of Croatia is taking normative and other measures to ensure the protection of the rights of national minorities. This is supported by data prepared by the Government for the latest report on the implementation of the May 2008 Framework Convention where minority language and letter were in official equal use in a total of 55 units of local and regional self-government. Of these, in 27 units, more than a third of the population were members of the national minority, while in 28 units, the official equal use of minority language and letter was introduced by the statute. There are also units of local and regional, regional self-government in which minorities made a smaller share than legally prescribed for the acquisition of rights, equal official use of language and letters of national minorities for the entire territory of a unit or for certain settlements. Governments want to impose on us that only in Croatia there are difficulties and debates about this right of national minorities while individual EU members, for example, France or Greece will deny even the existence of national minorities in their territories and have not ratified the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities. There is no harmonised view among those who recognise the rights of national minorities as regards the address of the right and the extent of the recognition of the right. In Germany, minorities do not even enjoy protecting their cultural identity from the state budget. Under the cover of insurance and protection of the rights of national minorities, it is obvious that violations of the rights and freedoms of the majority population are tolerated. I stress the need for continued work and systematic access to the area of protection of the rights of national minorities, taking into account that it is necessary for all participants in the dialogue on protection and rights of national minorities to make efforts to achieve a balanced and quality relationship between the majority population and national minorities and with a view to further development and progress of our society. I note that the introduction of bilingualism in the city of Vukovar is approached prematurely, extremely socially insensitive, not to be guided by legal, moral or ethnic doubts about this issue as if it were not important at all and as if there was no need to think more carefully about their impact on co-existence in the post-war Vukovar community. I also note that a third of the MPs in the Croatian Parliament have signed the draft conclusion on the problem of placing bilingual inscriptions in the town of Vukovar and the application of the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities due to the current situation in the city of Vukovar and the cause of tension and threat to the security of all the citizens of the city of Vukovar and an urgent debate has been proposed so far. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and to postpone the application of Article 7(1) of the same Act and to set up bilingual inscriptions on public institutions and institutions in the city of Vukovar until the next regular list of views of its own moratorium. Namely, the joint co-existence of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of nationality in the area of the city of Vukovar, should be one of the key national interests. The events in Vukovar, unrest, protests over the introduction of bilingual inscriptions on Cyrillic to public institutions and institutions, call into question the normal functioning of all spheres of social life in the city, and thus causing unnecessary international tensions. That's why Cyrillic inscriptions were supposed to wait because it's actually the price of peace. Neither before nor today, the Serbian National Minority has been denied or challenged by the use of Cyrillic for official and cultural purposes. It's about symbols that were on Serbian grenades, that we witnessed, that destroyed the city and killed the innocent population. I'm talking about symbols. The problem of bilingualism in the city of Vukovar has long gone beyond the level of bilingual boarding and must finally be taken into account its deeper meaning. Moreover, a more detailed analysis of all aspects of the introduction of bilingualism shows its deep political background, which in fact does not aim to achieve the right of a national minority to use its own language and letter rather than to establish new political relations that can lead to significant social, political and demographic earthquakes in the country. Vukovar, as a symbol of resistance to the great Serb aggressor, but also a place of great suffering, humiliation, suffering and sacrifice, the place of the most serious crimes many of which have genocide features, did not surely deserve it. Vukovar must be the site of a special pytetic with a very sensitive pattern of behaviour. What does calling the law mean if we're not interested in people, in their deaths, in their feelings, in the fate of 86 murdered children, and in 299 missing persons who are still wanted? Finally, the common interest of most Croatian peoples and national minorities should be the integration of members of national minorities into Croatian society. Croatia's policy must respect the cultural and national identity of all national minorities and must do nothing aimed at suppressing the specificities of every national minority and not implement the assimilation. However, also members of individual national minorities, and especially their political representatives, should be careful not to turn their rights into the closure of individual national minorities into the frameworks of their community. National minorities are part of Croatian societies and their members and political representatives should lead such a policy that they integrate their identity into Croatian society and share the fate of the majority Croatian people. Therefore, not assimilation, not ghettoisation, but integration is the only proper approach to achieving the rights of national minorities in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68614	Now we move on to replicas. Too late. Moving to replicas, Boro Grubisic first reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68615	Thank you very much. Comrade Babic, you've put it together nicely, I'd say yours is a tract. But I wanted to ask you, if you know, you'll answer me in the replica, so. I would only ask you to calm down, here it is, Mr. Djakic. So, I wanted to ask you, do you know that it is also about that integration, that the classes in Vukovar are, therefore, separate, so Croatian and Serbian? And do you know what history books in Vukovar look like for those two groups? Are these the same textbooks, each written in Cyrillic, and the other in Latin, or is the text different in those textbooks on Cyrillic? So, the contents of the second or the contents are different, say from the history textbook, like the Homeland War? And how we're going to talk about the integration that you're talking about, and which, and I'd advocate, clearly, that already once, so we wouldn't, in this way, share, have constant disputes and constant conflicts, not even the second world work, not the 1st, we have now and Homeland yet, we're always pulling tails, and mainly for the reasons of these solutions, mainly in school.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68616	The replica matches the respected Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68617	Thank you. Dear counterpart Grubisic, I am not truly familiar with the programme of history or similar textbooks from which Serbian children are taught in Vukovar and the Serbian National Minority, but I have alluded in my report to those political representatives who represent those national minorities that they actually need to worry about, most of all, rather than Minister Jovanovic, who sent our textbooks from history to the Chetnik Duke Tomislav Nikolic for an audit in Belgrade, which further irritated our citizens in the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68618	Another replica, the esteemed Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68619	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, dear colleague, I agree with most of what you said, perhaps it was still necessary to highlight the situation of minority representation in the public media service program of HRT. I would remind you that the President of the Government Council for National Minorities, Mr Tolnauer, said at one meeting that he would ask members of the national minorities to boycott the payment of the subscription due to the never worse display of national minorities in the HRT programme. Unfortunately, the question is what does it say in the programme contract with the government of the Republic of Croatia which we have not had the opportunity to see, and according to the information it was not even signed by the Prime Minister Mr. Milanovic, I don't know for what reason, but it was released by the Minister of Culture Mrs. Zlatar Violic, although it was so verified in the contract that I am afraid that regardless of the gentleman's appeals... that the situation for minorities on HRT will not be able to fix. In addition, you said well but as I mentioned now the HRT we were witnessing today that under some miracle were reports where we could talk about it from 2011 on the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council had simply disappeared from the agenda and a strange point for five a, b, c, d and e chapters appeared. And besides, I wanted to tell you that we may, by some miracle, also hope that this initiative of 32 MPs in the Croatian Parliament that you mentioned will finally move from 55th place, because today we will be able to discuss some of the points proposed by some other representatives and some other club representatives, so I would like to say something about this Croatian Parliament and these initiatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68620	The answer to the replica Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68621	Thank you. Well, Mr. Mesic, I'm sorry I didn't talk about that anymore. It is certain that the role of the public media service is very important in the integration of national minorities and that care should also be taken by the HRT Programme Council, as well as by the Government that can direct certain things through the public media service. I agree completely with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68622	The next replica of Đurjica twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68623	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I must say, dear colleague Babic, I agree with your debate. Here in this replica I'd like to say something I'm sure you'll accept. We who went to religious teaching were raised Catholicly were never raised to hate someone. They really taught me, and I'm sure he loves you, and he respects others, but he should expect it from others. I'm just as sorry, but don't forget. It was you who were talking about Vukovar and our darkest days for Croatia, and this was our last war when we were attacked when we had to defend ourselves. There's really no one here in this assembly that can point a finger and say I hate you and I don't love you because you're a Serb, you're a Roma, you're a Czech, I don't know what that doesn't exist. It's unfortunate if it initiates politics, especially the one in power. And you said well the records in Vukovar were set up but you forgot to say when, in the cover of the night, something was set up. Those plates are placed in the cover of the night. And what did you think they caused in humans? They're really symbols. The Cyrillic is not questionable, but the symbols are questionable when they arrive early in the morning. So here we read that some of the people of Vukovar of the Serbian Nationality say the same thing, so we didn't insist on those records, so it doesn't mean anything to us. You know, it was a cover-up of exactly what it is in Croatia because it's the easiest thing to do is to fight it, to rule it, it's the easiest thing to leave people without a job, people who don't have a wound, it's the easiest way to cut them off, and then let one record go over the night, and they think Croatian people, and I mean it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68624	But the time has come for you to say that you wanted to say that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68625	I'm sorry, I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68626	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68627	Thank you. Dear colleagues of the twilight, so I honestly when you talk about raising little or almost never heard that word of hatred, perhaps until it was spoken in the Croatian Parliament. I don't think it's necessary to raise tensions like that, and today it's also about fear of national minorities, and I think it's abused and there's no fear of national minorities. Someone's deliberately pushing it. I said that the ruling people want to impose an opinion on us that only in Croatia there are difficulties and debates about national minorities. But what you were talking about, and I have to look back even though I didn't think it was the setting up of bilingual plates in Vukovar under cover of night, and I remember a senior official in the Croatian government saying that the Cyrillic tables in Vukovar when they were introduced would actually be a holiday of democracy. On the day those under cover of nights were so cowardly set up, he said he wasn't familiar with the details. So much for introducing those bilingual plates.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68628	Next replica, respected Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68629	Thank you. My colleague Babić and you and I are members of the Parliament, the Supreme Legislative Body of the Republic of Croatia, the bodies expressing the sovereignty of the Croatian people, the citizens of Croatia, and you here have spoken a sentence which I cannot possibly accept as a member of the Croatian Parliament, and it is quoted as saying "What does it even mean to call the law". I can tell you as a member of Parliament that it means almost everything, not always all because we can relativate things. Normally your line goes "if you don't respect" la, la, la "man" this. But you can see what this means in the midst of a sovereign, democratic, free state, what it means to call the law. I think that message is quite doubtful for me absolutely unacceptable, just as I do not think it is most productive for Croatia in the Croatian Parliament to call Germany and the French state to disrespect the rights of national minorities and those who are not born French. We won't talk about what it means to identify statehood, nationalities because they could come to the United States so all citizens of the United States are and no one is asking you if you are from the origins of Croatia, etc. But when you get to Houston, then you'll see that there are written in English and Spanish everywhere, that no civil servant can be in service unless he knows Spanish. Because it makes perfect sense that in a country or part of a country where there are a lot of Latin Americans you know Spanish. And by the way, I don't think it's productive for another country to attack because of some of our problems. I wouldn't go any further. This is a big topic. I don't think it's productive here to bring everything down to Cyrillic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68630	Look at it this way, Grandmother. Let's make a deal. I'll give you my word. But it's not really about my goodwill whether I give you my word or not. He also refers to a colleague, Djakic, whom I will also give my word after this. But you need to pick up the plate while the one that's replicating you speaks. If you miss doing that, and I give you my word, then I'm unfair to everyone else and I don't want to be. But here's to respecting now your right to respond to the line. No, no. First answer to the replica. You can't call Djakic. Well, you can't speak until you get the word. Please respond to your colleague, Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68631	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Actually, you're right. I didn't raise the plate, but I raised my hand. Okay. My story. Dear colleague Jurjevic, I'm sorry you took that part of the sentence out of context. I actually said what it means to call the law if we're not interested in people, their deaths, their feelings and fates with 86 murdered children and 299 missing. That's what I said. And you know very well that, of course, if something is being done by force, if something was under cover of the night, and you know that it was done then it is certainly not in the spirit of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and Article 8 which I was talking about, and this is also the co-existence and tolerance and tolerance of the national minority in this case of the Serb national minority and the majority Croatian population. That's what I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68632	The opportunity to replicate is now given to counterpart Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68633	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Even though I've been up in time, I'm not gonna waste my time here. It is clear that there is no dialogue on this Cyrillic issue in Vukovar. Since the mayor of Vukovar himself, as vice-president of the Veterans Committee, has twice removed the agenda from the Veterans Committee as an interested body who wanted to discuss this, given that a sufficient amount of MPs have submitted a request to the Croatian Assembly and that it is an urgent debate. The dialogue can solve everything and tolerance and understanding and trust and everything can return, but under cover of night only operate I think thieves and necessary workers who must be on the ground and possibly cops who protect order and work. What happened in Vukovar certainly does not require and cannot be justified by any reason or by constitutional law. The victim is so big and so big and so heavy that nothing can be justified that it was necessary. But not all Serbs are asking for Cyrillic to be introduced, as they only say 1.23% in Croatia that their Serbian language is their native language. That's what we're talking about when we calculate the percentages of us 40,000 Serbs in all of Croatia are the ones who want to be their native Serbian. In doing so, we can convince all those who do not believe, which is according to the population list when everyone who wanted what is their native language, and what is their second language, were unbiased in the questionnaire. So here's why I'm saying the cover of the night doesn't solve anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68634	The replica corresponds to a respected colleague, Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68635	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Djakic, I agree, we have talked about this all day long and the problem of bilingual inscriptions, or a panel in Vukovar, has certainly created one vision out of the majority, and so is the national minority that happened here with the last detention of the one who actually destroyed one of the panels in Vukovar, and was actually a member of the Serb national minority. So not only does it bother the Croats, but also the Serbs, all those who think about integration and co-existence. The problem of national minorities in the world, but the problem of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia is not easy to resolve in order to satisfy both sides. So it was tied through the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, either through the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities or the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities. And finally through urban or municipal statutes where there are national minorities. So, I've spoken and I'll say it again. Neasimation is already integration into Croatian society. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68636	Mr. Arsen Bauk, the secretary of the board of directors has now come forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68637	Thank you, Mr. President. At the beginning of my opening presentation, I said that the 2013 Report debate would be something more interesting and I thought in the most part of this part, which was spoken by the esteemed representative Babic. And in the opening statement, I did not refer to any of the issues of placing bilingual panels in the city of Vukovar because it did not happen in 2012, except as the census was published in December 2012. And given that it is on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament and the proposal for a conclusion signed by 50 and some MPs, which the Government has shown itself about, and I would like this debate also to be held as soon as possible, so that we can discuss the subject. So in this context, I will only say one sentence, on this issue, this government continues the full continuity of the HDZ government's policy from 2004 to 2011. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68638	Replica. A fellow Montenegrin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68639	Mr. Minister, I think about bilingualism, you said there would be a more interesting debate for 2013. But why not 2012? It was worth the 2009 Statute of the city of Vukovar, which then prescribed bilingual, pardoned two-letter names.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68640	Minister Bauk responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68641	I would not like to interfere with the coalition relations between HDZ and the SDSS in Vukovar in 2009, so I kept the topic quiet because of the peace in the house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68642	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDZB, counterpart Boro Grubisic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68643	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, we are pleased to have you here today, colleagues and colleagues. Yes, it's interesting that Kopernikski's turn when it's 2009. The City Council of Vukovar decided by the votes of HDZ and HSP at the time it did not seem to me that the Cyrillic could be introduced or to place bilingual tablets, but the SDP was against it. Today, the situation is reversed, so today it's the SDP government that says the Ministry of Administration is setting up the night so-called. Table and to pay overtime for those who work at night on the table. I guess it's overtime, huh? Although Minister Mrsic is trying to reduce overtime to the minimum amount as it is said or the minimum hours but here we have a lot of hours in Vukovar, a little bit and a little bit so there are those night tables in Vukovar. What I wanted to say about our not saying happy or unhappy Vukovar is that as my colleague Mandic said, from kindergarten and today children are shared. Which is the saddest thing. Children who at the age of 4, 3, 5 don't even know about the issue of nationality, and I don't even know what they're divided about, but today, still today. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68644	I'm begging you without throwing away.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68645	Place your replica, Mr. Caine.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68646	Be nice.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68647	So, and then after that, they go to school. And what's going on? I wouldn't want my colleagues from the SDSS to get me wrong. It's like we have reservations where one of them learns one language, let's just say in America is Indian and these other English don't know. So if we're finally going to get Croatia like that France I was talking about where there is no French language everywhere, there are French documents, French passport, French testimony, etc. What does the textbook for the history of children in Vukovar and one and the other say? One textbook says that it was the Homeland War or the war that was since '91. '95. created or became due to this writes: "Because a lot of Serbs are expelled from their jobs in Croatia. On the other hand, there have been radical Chetnik groups in Serbia." That's what one textbook says in our Croatian textbook. It wasn't imported from Serbia either. And are there Chetnik groups that aren't radical? He's writing radical Chetnik groups. What do you say to that? So there are two truths in the same school. One shift goes to the Serb class, the other to the Croats. So how long are we gonna do that? Or let's take a look at the results for the family referendum. What municipalities in Croatia have the best results in terms of anti? Does that ring a bell? He mentioned the Mile Horvat they are. Negoslavci 92% against, Borovo Selo 84% against, Trpinja and Mrkusica. These are the strongest municipalities against the referendum. What does that mean? Is this the integration Mr. Babic speaks of, well-meaning Mr. Babic, or is it an indicator of something else that I would not like to say? They say the HRT is dissatisfied with minority programs. Well, I've watched Christmas Eve in Boro's Village and a column like that orange row in Northern Ireland when there's always certain thorns and conflicts when Protestants out there demonstrate on the day King James English beat the Irish in some battle, right? And none of the government, nor the ministers, nor the management minister, nor the police minister reacts, has any reaction. And we know what all the messages were sent from such columns. But I didn't want to talk about it at all, but I was invited by this debate, which is here, and I want it to be open and open about everything today. counterpart Radin spoke about Istria, Cain says the Istrian anthem although there is no Istrian anthem because the county has no its anthem, they have a solemn song. So the solemn song is not an anthem. She's an Istrian County ceremony song. And says the beautiful land of Istria, dear, the home of the Croatian people. I'm very interested in Mr. Caine since you're Istrian, not Istranin, what it sounds like in Italian and what it's like in Italian. ... Perhaps you'd know Mr. coat of arms sitting there next to you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Now, if we're talking about Vukovar, we can't talk anymore, and it was also on HRT, you know, yourself and you. So, about having kids separated from two years of their lives. So what are children to blame both Croatian and Serbian? I don't understand it at all. How long are we going to force what would this separation policy say and not integration? How far are we going to push? And now the board, right? Here's the Department of Management, the nightboards are being set up. In addition to being truly Vukovar, the one who was not in the war, the one who was not at all affected by the war storm. It is easy for you to say, we apply the law, we apply the Constitution of the Law and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and it also says that most should be satisfied with the solutions and yet it is not satisfied with the solutions. Now, neither am I xenophobe, nor am I a chauvinist, but it's someone else's way of saying a colleague here, so I like to respect my people like that, and this time I'm talking out of the heart and with such intentions that nobody gets me wrong. So, in our Istria, someone here says that 50% of people speak Italian, and according to the census, only 7% of Italians, if we apply the Constitutional Law, then there is no right to bilingualism because there is no 33% but there is such an environment in which both Croats and others accepted the Italian language, behold wonders. One informal finding, one informal information about 50% of those who speak Italian, or Italy, is close to being the most normal in Istria I respect, ok. Let it be, if that's the case, but I wonder if the Croatian language from Istria is suppressed is being suppressed in this way the Croatian language from Istria is a language and the property of a nation and then the Croatian name from Istria is being suppressed. It's one game that we talk about, we're unhappy with the money that comes in, we're unhappy with schools, we don't have enough, we don't have it, we're moaning, we're moaning and 133.5 million kunas The Croatian state is out for the needs of a clear one, I'm saying that needs are bigger, but we need to understand that the crisis. So you see that people get fired, so you see that people in state-owned enterprises don't get nine months' pay, so what we're talking about, we here if I didn't say almost, I'd say we're being a little bit arrogant about saying that we're fulfilling all these rights. I don't mind having those rights fulfilled. Only time isn't very convenient for that. Someone here was talking about the role and words of the president. So one says what the Vice-President of the Parliament said, and the other says that no one in Croatia will carry the country out of Croatia on their feet after the storm, and that's not what we're talking about, and the other said that one of the officials of the independent democratic Serb party is, in that sense, about that, is it that way, isn't it? And nobody mentions it. It's the one they're talking about first. So let's just say it's clear and loud, I'm not saying that anyone's a bad president because of it, but come on, my God, we're all human, we're all human, there's a mistake, my God, and now what, but we're not going to judge people like that, no one. Now I talked about school and about Veljun 41 thousand euros from the Japanese government + 60 thousand euros from the hospital in Veljun if the school is made. The school looks like it was just yesterday that the war ended on the cordon and that just the school was in such a postwar state and by the infirmary thank God the Japanese would say give us back the money. Who's to blame? Isn't it a transparent spending of money? Who is responsible for the constant complaints of highly educated people and the academic titles of professors who are suing and suing for the non-transparentity of working in the cultural society of protests, the Serbian cultural society of protests that cannot reach the paper, who is responsible for spending huge money for daily living in this society and in the Serbian National Council of up to 2 million kunas. Yes, people who are members of both the Serbian National Council and the cultural society of protests, they, therefore, here are documents and papers. There's no revision, there's no control, I guess it's also the right constitutionally not to be allowed in or audited into those papers. So if it is subject to Mrs. Merkel's audit and the DORH, if it is subject to the Shegon, if any of us are subject to any of us, then each of us must either be called Enlightenment or I don't know an Italian edit or anything else called Cain, the edit of any other entity is legally subject to both review and tax and any other control. Mr Kajtazi spoke about the Roma, and I am sorry that all the programmes that are planned and the money that is scheduled for the EU have not been withdrawn through the EU, I don't know what to say, who's to blame? They're a little guilty, even I'd say, in some ways, the Roma themselves who may not have taken seriously enough and accepted the opportunities that are being provided. He can't pull a third party if we don't take part in it ourselves. So I wouldn't talk about it. We in Brod have a Roma settlement with 800 or so inhabitants, the main problem is the legalisation of these facilities, and it's very clear that any domestic resident who will pay for the legalization of 12,000 kuna would be a little bit and I won't say disappointed, but he would be, at least he would question himself about legalization that would be free of anyone, so it's hard to be that judge. But if European funds are withdrawn to help these people who know how they live and what conditions they live in, then it could be made and explained to the citizens of Slavonski Brod that these objects are finally legalized, that it is the legal settlement of Roma in Slavonski Brod, and that is why I advocate Kajtazi, working on it. There. I've recorded a lot of these figures here, starting with the number of children in schools that attend so minority classes or minority classes, etc. to the life problems spoken by Mr Horvat very objectively and very rationally and fully respects everything that plagues every member of the national minority. But here I am once again, one of the gentlemen from the carlova County told me that in one place I think his name is Dreznica used to be Partisan, there are 20 students at school, and 21 employees at school. It is the most luxurious and standard equipped as regards the staff of schools in Croatia, to 20 students 21 employed. All of this is paid by this country, all of which are paid by our taxpayers, and according to them, there are 400 thousand employees now living in this country, their taxes, the cut and everything else needs to be respectable to them. As for Vukovar, I have relatives in Vukovar, I came before the war in Vukovar, and among the first I entered Nemetina's post in '95, 6 years in Vukovar was not yet a peaceful reintegration, so Nemetin was my cousin who took me to Vukovar. I saw nothing but Hiroshima. But I've never met one in Vukovar before the war. I've never seen one before. In the Socialist Republic of Croatia, Serbs in Vukovar had no need for Cyrillic. Neither do they have it now but has our ministry which says that according to the Constitutional Law, they will force it or I don't know how to set it even though it is true about the Hiroshima buildings and the number and killed, and tortured, and raped, and the number of children that 86 were killed in Vukovar, 299 missing persons are still on the list, and indeed if they have any conscience in either of us and in those who even remain silent, let them make clear what they say at least not in connection with the whole of Croatia and Cyrillic but in connection with Vukovar. It's too little time to absorb this subject completely, but thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68648	Thank you, too. There's almost no representative who hasn't called to replicate. The first will be replicated by Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68649	You may have rightly begun your debate as the whole thing was going on in Vukovar, and you mentioned the date of 16.7.2009, when the City Council of Vukovar introduced the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities as it literally stands in its statute and I am now reminding it in Article 61(3). "In accordance with the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities and this statute, members of the Serb national minority have the right to free use of the Serbian language and Cyrillic letter" etc. We all almost know that article. It was 2009, the central government was in the hands of HDZ and it was not at all controversial. And today, when we listen to today's debates where many advocate and tolerate a life together that should certainly be commended from the HDZ club itself, but they say wait for people to live there, so I'm interested in what logic it is if in 2009 it wasn't a dispute, that the war happened since 2009 so let's say it's the law now, but so that such inscriptions are causing bewildering, so now it's 5 years after that and we have a problem now, and in 2009, it wasn't a problem. When HDZ is in power, then it is not a problem because they can introduce both Cyrillic and extradite General Haag to all that can be done when HDZ is in power. When the second option is in power, it all becomes a problem. Here I will just remind myself in 2009 and only the MUP to encourage citizens of Serbian nationality as it stems from the report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities, a special campaign for national minorities to use their language and letter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68650	The replica matches Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68651	Thank you very much. You've seen that paradox well, but I have to say something else. During the vote in the city council, the SDP was then against, yes, that it was against. Today, when you are in power in the state of Croatia and the city of Vukovar you have a mayor who was then against, he is now with Mr. Bauk. I know this party was in favour of its coalition partner back then, but you were against it. I'm surprised you changed your mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68652	Another replica, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68653	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Boro, you've elaborated all this well. I would just remind myself that it was absolutely unnecessary to go to the Serbian people in this way by setting up Cyrillic plates, meeting... the requirements and what it says in the Constitutional Law should not have been first at night, the latter should not have been until all the victims were buried, it should have been equally delayed and waited for their time to mature as we had delayed serving the Serbian youth of the Croatian Army during this transitional period, as a number of other things have happened and even abolized some of those who participated in the massacre left in the police of Croatia and state services most of those found in peaceful reintegration. Thus, this law should wait for its time for the wounds to heal, for the dead to be buried on both sides, and for the most part for Croatian victims, Hungarian, Russian, Czech, etc. Then maybe it'd be time and it wouldn't bother you. But we clearly see that, according to the statement of all those who speak how and which native language is given by most Serbs, it is declared that their Croatian language is native. So that the minority representing the Serbian people in Croatia, the Parliament or the majority in the Croatian Parliament who even on the Veterans Committee refused to take down the agenda point to discuss Cyrillic in Vukovar clearly tells who has any political claims, who is asking for votes from the wrong people in the Vukovar area and who wants to buy votes with the Cyrillic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68654	The replica matches Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68655	For the so-called Let's say the grace period so that Serbian young men go to the military, in the Croatian army, I don't think it's even a good provision, although perhaps because of those war horrors and those emotions that were at the time might be good. I think it remains an old Serbian saying that a Serb is happy to go into soldiers. He would still go to the Croatian army today, which was arranged for an army in which there is no discrimination, but a government of tolerance, order and a member of NATO's pact. I think many Serbian young men would be happy to go to the Croatian army. And as for the Cyrillic, so you created the HDZ prerequisite and created an agreement with the SDSS on the introduction of the Cyrillic. At that time you were also in the state of power, and in Vukovar you concluded an agreement with the SDSS, and then Mr. Sanader went on that name to what is said to be the Christ's resurrection to breaking cakes with the leaders of the SDSS which is ok, I think. I can't say anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68656	Next replica, Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68657	I thank my colleague Grubisic. I'll have a couple of thesis, look back at a few of your thesis. First, the Constitutional Law applies or not. As a legalist, let's change it. So let's not bid on such high legal text, highly ranked legal text. Either we apply it or we change it. It's another thing. You keep talking about kindergartens in Vukovar, schools in Vukovar where Serbian and Croatian children go separately. You need to know one thing. It's not a matter of political will as much as a parent thing to do like that. But at the same time, as a member of the Serbian community, I ask why this question is not asked by my colleague and he does not wonder why it is not a problem when Hungarians do so. Why is it not a problem when you do it in Istria, when Italians do it. Of course I support them and I think it should be because it's a higher form of social standard and a higher form of social consciousness. But why is the whole story directed towards the relations of Serbian kindergartens and kindergartens for Croats only in the town of Vukovar? And that's ghettoization. There's nothing left of ghettoization. So that thing needs a little bit of a different set-up. Third thing Cyrillic, to ask one question. Let the Bible be cast with a stone who has not taught Cyrillic here, and is that why we are poorer and worse people? Cyrillic, otherwise in the future and now in the EU, will be one, is one of the official letters. They say that EURO will even have one part of the Cyrillic written in one part. Then we'll throw it away because it's written on Cyrillic. And last thing, you're saying that in France all French are. So would you like to be said that in Serbia all Croats are Serbs? Would you like to say that? ... A particularly defined Croatian community with its special status and rights within the Republic of Serbia. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] [[/Intruder Stazic: Microphone. But your time is up.]] And it would not be good if the Croats were all considered Serbs. I think you'd mind most of all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68658	Thank you very much. Boro Grubisic will respond to this replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68659	Mr. Horvat, you know that your club president said that he is, therefore, just like Mr. Milanovic is a political Croat. I don't know what that actually means, maybe I'm stupid because what it means is a political Croat. I know there is a Croat, a Serb and a Hungarian, etc. But a very political Croat doesn't, I don't know, just a vague and hazy notion. Although I suppose what that should mean is a political Croat. As far as kindergartens are concerned, I think I just appealed to this age of children who are already starting what they would say in deobos, so to division. So, I know Cyrillic and I write it great, much better than you probably do. But then we start from the very age of children. How they will live in Vukovar together tomorrow and work together if they are education, education, history, everything else. So we're not going to war again, I guess the sun is his. Well, come on, I really don't know! Let's go already. That's what I'm talking about, about what Babic was saying, I'm talking about integration not to assimilate anyone but integration one, about some common spirit that we finally get this Vukovar out and I'm not going to tell you what.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68660	Followed by the replica of Marina Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68661	Thank you. Comrade Grubisic, I see you are very impressed with the way the French have arranged things. I have nothing against the French, but I think it's a great nation, a great nation that's brought a lot of good and good here, even though they've done some bad things like abolishing the Dubrovnik Republic, the Polish Republic, etc. But Marshall Marmon did great things in Split, so he has a main street today even though HCHSP asked the City Council to do the name because he was an occupier. But you see what the French are a great nation, a great nation and what a great state does not mean that Croatia has to do exactly as the French did, nor does their size guarantee that everything is good that they did. Well, as much as I wouldn't suffer from those patterns, I don't think that citizenship has to be identified with nationality or that it doesn't matter nationality as it is in the United States. That's one... etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You there, if you get their citizenship, they don't care what you're from the origins of the Croats, you'll be citizens of the United States. But neatly in Houston, you won't be able to work at the state administration unless you know Spanish. You see, if you asked an average citizen what's the official language in Mexico, then you'd... since the Croats, perhaps less, said it was Spanish, and you see it's not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There in Mexico 62, equal languages believed it or not in the United States what they're actually called, because they have 31 states and 1 federal district. So 62 languages can be spoken in their Parliament. One is Spanish and 61 languages of the Indian. I've been to Mexico and I know well and I've been sitting with people from Parliament in Chiapas who don't speak Spanish because they're Indians, but... But I'm just confused by my colleague Shakespeare. I'll forgive him for years. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Vlado, this is just, this applies to me because one of your colleagues told me the other day that she's working for years she won't answer me. ... Yes, it is, but I consider myself this generation of the Shex government and I'm not ashamed to say it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68662	All right, colleagues, all right. Let's leave it alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68663	All right, here's what I was going to say is that there are countries that have more languages than there are two.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68664	All right, let's leave it behind the hallway and in the assembly we'll give my colleague Grubisic the word to answer this replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68665	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You didn't think I'd equalize citizenship and nationality, did you? But when you do, and I guess you were with Mrs. Ingrid, which way maybe guests in Strasbourg is German, right, that part is Alsace and Strasbourg is the capital of Alsace where there's almost no place that there's no German name. Starting with, Mrs. Ingrid, please help me, Schildenheim, Ostalda and all are German places. But everyone says they live there that they're French and he's called Hans but he says he's French,... Only the French don't have the letter H, he says he's French. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He doesn't want to be German at all. As for the migrants who are in France, there are 5.6 million of them from Morocco, Tunisia, Mauritania, and ask God where everything comes from, they're all French. I'm not saying they're national, but they're French, they have French citizenship. And when you talk about languages, in Mexico and India you have 500 languages, like Mexico, Mexico is small for India where you have 500 languages. So we won't talk about it. And actually, I don't understand why you gave me the line when you and I know it, we could talk about it with a cup of coffee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68666	Next replica, respected Ivica Mandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68667	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Grubisic, you mentioned the situation in the children's kindergartens of the town of Vukovar in your debate. Since this year we've visited both kindergartens in Borov and Vukovar one thought that somehow irritates me that I can't believe we're in the 21st century. And here I would say that it is the responsibility of both the majority and the minority to separate children at the earliest age. I think that together with the Serb national minority, the majority of Croatians must agree on the best solution. No one under the law contests learning in native language, but to separate children in kindergartens I don't think it's good for the future of the city of Vukovar, for the future of the Republic of Croatia. What I agree with you is that in any case we support all possible activities that bind children not to be separated and that the task and role of all policies and all political parties is to get more tolerance because that is the only way we will prevent any new problems in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68668	The replica matches Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68669	Yes, my colleague Mandic was once a song, no longer broadcast on the radio, trains like our mixed marriages. In fact, we've separated the kids now, how we're gonna mix marriages, I don't know either, right? But you said you couldn't believe it was happening but you were in Vukovar. I can only tell you that I can't believe it either.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68670	Replica, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68671	Here, Mr. Grubisic, for a few more minutes if you had spoken, you would have almost convinced me that no one in Vukovar knew a Cyrillic among the Croats or among the Serbs. Clearly, the Homeland War was both unquestioned and legitimate and defensive, all that stands. However, on the margins of that same war and on our side there was a lot of things, and you know it best because if I'm not mistaken, your party president is somewhere in Mostar right now. When you mentioned a family referendum I'll tell you here in Labin also 70%, in Buzet 65%, in Pula 60%, etc. Why people reacted so in Istria, and my former party did not ask them to be against me or Peje Grbina rather than to vote on their conscience. Because they were afraid of this second monster referendum that was simply being prepared from other pages or through Učka there in Vukovar, a vis-a-vis that had been collected these 650 thousand signatures. The other thing I'm saying is don't say they share children in kindergartens. Who's sharing these kids? Well, they don't share themselves. Someone raises them like that, someone sorts them so that I don't say classification. Let's not do this for petty political interests. And finally, when we talk about the festival songs in Istria, you see for us, it can also be a bandier of dew. Well, it wasn't that bandit triumphed in 2014, '45. Of course, but also never faster development, although many did not profit under that flag, was not but was in that period of the '60s. '90s. And finally, when we talk about the Croatian language that suppresses it in Istria, under quotes "suppresses"? It is only suppressed by the stupidity, primitiveism and narrowness of those who destroy convention and tolerance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68672	The replica matches Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68673	It's being suppressed by the Italian, Mr. Cain. And as for this mention, for the third time in 14 days, you mention a name you shouldn't say because you wouldn't even be sitting here like the other Turin who told me that, so you wouldn't be here in the House if it wasn't for that gentleman you were already talking about third time in prison. A beer must speak from you because you wouldn't say otherwise. And don't mention it, I said it was a danger to mention the Homeland War because the home has a synonym, and that's the house, so you can say home war, maybe the civil war was for you, it wasn't for us. It's always been the Homeland War, so you speak civil war, and you think, that's what you're thinking, I know your philosophy. But I just got word from party president Šišljaric, who talks in Brussels with Mr Jakovic, who is supported by your SDP as candidate for Europe, and they will agree and then you will talk later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68674	Damir Kajin, stop talking until you get your word, I'm giving you a warning, behave yourself in the assembly room. Melita Mulic, here's your next line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68675	Thank you. Comrade Grubisic, perhaps something on the trail of what counterpart Kajin said, you in your speech which was a very broad and unusual concept actually used and a clean speech of discrimination. You listed the individual places in which the majority Serb population or the Serb national minority is living, and you said that in that referendum, I guess, at a referendum organised by the association On behalf of the family, you voted against, you joined the Negoslavci and Trpinj, and you said that is that integration, and what are all of us who are left because of the census and 45% of us are in Zagreb or 62% in Rijeka or 67% in Istria unintegrated and abnormal? I don't think you have the right to judge anyone because of their attitudes and that you should refrain from discriminatory speech and that it has nothing to do with freedom of speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68676	Reply Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68677	My colleague, this discrimination thing has nothing to do with it. On the contrary, now you tell me if this is the result, for example. which has been achieved in these municipalities, we know, I've read the best municipalities that have given the most votes for and most of those who voted against, that I cited what you consider discrimination. According to your communist philosophy, you would forbid everyone to say what is true here, and that is true, and I know that in the Negoslavs I will repeat 92% against you in the referendum, in Markushevec 98%, what is wrong with you? ... Give her a warning. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[Intruding Stazic: Do not shout.]] She really deserved it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68678	Next replica Tomislav Klaric. Calm down today, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68679	Dear Mr. Grubisic, you said the textbooks from which they teach children in Vukovar, and we talk about minorities here all the time. Now I wonder what minority we're even talking about, whether we're talking about Serbs who are our neighbors, who are our friends, ministers, sitting here with us in the Parliament or talking about those who learn from some different textbooks that you mentioned here. Are we talking about some kind of patriarch who now sends messages for Christmas about which the Croatian state does not exist and Serbs are threatened again in Croatia. If we continue to do so and if the rights you spoke of in your speech are given and voted here by some kind of political trade in order to gather most of them here in the Parliament, and if we allow the Serbian patriarch to speak and send these messages here, I fear there will be more broken plates, there will be spoons and columns like we saw in Bor's village, that there will be songs of Žica Vukovar Srebrenica and I'm afraid that there will be broken heads. I guess we're all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, I guess the Serbs who live here are our friends, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and we're not just talking about them, we're talking about the Italians, we're talking about the Czechs, we're talking about the Hungarians. I guess we're one country that doesn't want it to be a minority. That's let's say terrorist, let's... Whoever loves her and wants to live in her, let him respect her, let him live with us, and he is not a minority. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68680	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68681	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you see, I believe here amongst us that if we talked any longer, I wouldn't find any MPs who didn't just have friends, but maybe even closer and further relatives. Yeah, here, among some who belong to national minorities, I'm not going to say which, here maybe Cain has someone from the Italian National, I don't know if he does. So, then, text messages or HRT e.g. are sent. I watched three times from 24.12. to 06. January I saw three times and I was glad to see the customs of Orthodox church and Orthodox believers for Christmas Eve, as the tree is brought in, how it is lit, and it was convenient but it was just shown on 24.12. But no matter what, he doesn't discriminate on anyone, I'm not xenophobe, I've enjoyed all these pictures, I don't know what to say, do I? And we all have friends like you said good friends and even relatives. So I think it's time we talked both objectively and soberly but sometimes with emotions as I do.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68682	Next replica, dear Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68683	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Grubisic, you mentioned the law of course, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, and it seems that in Croatia there is never enough reading of this law in the right way. So I'm going to read article 8. For the sake of those who say the law needs to be changed, and I agree that it needs to be changed. And I agree that it needs to be changed, but in the way that Article 8. "The provisions of this Constitutional Law and the provisions of specific laws establishing the rights and freedoms of members of national minorities must be interpreted and applied with the purpose of respecting members of national minorities and Croatian peoples, the development of understanding, solidarity, tolerance and dialogue among them." We can ask an open question, has the Government of the Republic of Croatia fulfilled the purpose of the law clearly set out in Article 8 by applying it in Vukovar? There are few laws that say something has to be done. I think here's a fellow Shakespeare who is absolutely certainly the greatest knowledge of laws, very few laws that say something must be interpreted and applied in that way. Has the government achieved the purpose of respecting members of national minorities and Croatian peoples? The answer is I think more than clear that it isn't. Has the Government of the Republic of Croatia achieved understanding by applying it in Vukovar? It's not. Has it achieved the purpose of developing solidarity? It's not. Tolerability? It's not. Is the dialogue between the Croatian people and the Serbian national minority? It's not. Therefore, Article 8 which clearly defines all the preceding articles states that it is only possible or necessary to interpret this law. I therefore absolutely agree that the law should be applied, but it is clear that this spirit of law is made up best in this article.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68684	It would be even better if we applied the Rules of Procedure because this 2012 report, in which the plates were placed or downloaded. The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68685	Thank you very much. Mr. Matusic, it is obvious that the government has one interpretation, and you have read it, and I would quite agree with you that your interpretation is more accurate than what is governmental. And as for Mr. Seks, he would not speak, he would say this sweetly by an old constitutional fox, and unless he proposed cultural autonomy in 2010 or the community of the municipalities of Eastern Slavonia which did not pass that year in June 2010, it was a disaster. I don't want to go on about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68686	A new replica of Đurjica twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68687	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here you see, colleague Grubisic, how many replicas have caused your exposure, regardless of what we do in the afternoon, doesn't record TV and to some of us who want to say something, it doesn't matter. I wanted to say what I thought before, and now I'm going to say the same thing. Indeed in the history of the Croats there are no conquerors, the Croats have never set foot for foreign countries and were not conquerors, the Croats have always been a people who unfortunately had to defend themselves. Today, I see that this debate is mostly between the national minorities always Serbs. Croatia really has a lot of national minorities. And why are Serbs most often mentioned? Well, because I think they're mostly politicized. I listened not to you, but in one replica it was said that at a time of socialism or communism there was no need. This means that when Croatia is independent that it is then the need to safeguard the rights of Serbs, but it was not talked about other national minorities. From who? From us Croats. So we Croats can say clearly and loudly that we are Croats and I am not ashamed to say that I am a Croat as glad to hear from my colleague Mila or that he is a Serb or my colleague Bilek that he is Czech or that he is a colleague of Roma. But integration is a need for respect and tolerance towards one another is necessary. The children's kindergarten in Vukovar to share, Zagreb is something else. In Zagreb, children's kindergarten parents give children in German, English and Italian for language learning, and this is about something else entirely. ... National minorities would have been reduced tensions if, for example, Serbia and Serbia advocated our representatives of the national minorities of Serbs, such as the Czechs, Hungarians and others, to respect equal rights. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] I'm sorry I broke time and that would be a very good thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68688	I've already warned you. The replica matches Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68689	Thank you very much. Yes, fellow Members, it is true that we have never attacked or bombed even from air or artillery or Nis, or Sombor or Kragujevac, or Arangel, or Topola, or Firefighter, or Pozeg, or Leskovac, or Prosperity, or so we have not set foot in anything but these parts. I know obviously some kind of my knowledge of a lot of places out there. But what I would really like to confirm is what you say, I would love to see these rights that I claim to be the highest in Europe, the Croatian rights of national minorities of the highest standards in Europe. And if it were to be a sign of reciprocity with those countries where there is also a Croatian national minority such as in Vojvodina, so Serbia is administratively, and where they are obviously openly trying to divide the Croats into Bunjevci, Šokce and Hrvatje. He's trying to tear them apart, as if he'd split these from Slavonia, Slavonian Serbs, Dalmatians, and I don't know which Serbs, and Serbs are Serbs wherever they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68690	Replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68691	Thank you very much. So in your debate, you dedicated a lot of time to Istria and the problems in Istria. But there's no problem in Istria. As for co-existence in Istria, the minority or most or more minorities and most of them have no problems. Historically, there have been a lot of difficult events there, but today you live there in an office. But when does the problem arise? The problem arises when two politicians who have been imposing themselves in Istria for 20 years, one colleague of our parliamentary representative and one president who is leaving are beginning to abuse their political powers. And then they decide who can sing in Istria, who can't, who can't and where to sign something in Istria, and where they can't. They don't have those powers. And to be even sadder, it was a sad comparison of our fellow parliamentary representative when he compared the president of the Committee on National Minorities and Human Rights to Mussolini during the mayor's campaign. And that was a contribution to co-existence with these minorities, and we have been taught here all morning how to treat it. This is no contribution to Istria, and these people in Istria will have to really decide after 20 years who they want to listen to. I don't think this competition and the unbelief of the Istrians deserves it, and you're totally wrong about the co-existence of the majority and the minority in Istria. That's where it works, there's no problem. They were created when politicians took it into their own hands.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68692	The problems arise when people like you come to Istria and I didn't compare him to Mussolini...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68693	Comrade Cain, you've already received one warning. My colleague Caine, like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68694	I didn't compare it to Mussolini but...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68695	Now, my colleague Cain, I've already given you one warning. Now I give you a reminder by taking away your word. ... Once again, that means you can't answer on this subject anymore. [[You can't hear it.]] And if you turn yourself back on and call without getting a word, I'll take you out of the assembly. Please behave and respect that this is the Croatian Parliament. Answer. First we will respond to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68696	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, I'm just, I know that co-existence in Istria is appropriate and that's where the situation is, so I'm almost gone, I'm not going to say idyllic, but come on, my God. I just asked here a representative, I won't mention him singing to the Italian anthem Istrian and how the beautiful land, Istro Mila, was translated, the home of the Croatian people. I'm just curious about how this is, especially this Croatian-born home, as it's been translated. As for the ban on the singing of our singers who have never been in prison, they have never been punished, and there is a threat here at the Assembly's payphone that some singer will not sing in Istria, there is no way that he will cross Cicaria as said. No way, 'cause I guess there's no tunnel. It's really undemocratic, but thank God there's someone in the SDP who brought it down. Thank God!
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68697	A colleague, Grubisic, can't ask the MP a question. Representatives may ask the Government a question and it is particularly unfair to ask a question in response to a replica when another colleague cannot answer that question. Look, it's an eclectic violation of the Rules of Procedure, but it's eclative and one not fair game. It's totally unfair and you know it and don't do it. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vladimir Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68698	Here's Mr. Vice President, 236 with regard to Article 235. Rules of Procedure. I don't usually answer that very much. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic, in the replica, I think there is a fellow representative here who suddenly mentions me as if I were like a cunning old fox or, yes, that I was pushing through something cultural autonomy of Serbs. Well, fellow Grubisic, you must know what is in the Constitution, what is in all the Constitution, what is in all the constitutional laws, what is the concept of cultural autonomy. So the entire Croatian legal order, the constitutional and legal order is based on the fact that already in the first Constitution there is still one everywhere, cultural autonomy of Serbs in Croatia has been established everywhere. And then don't tell me something that's a general civilization value in the Croatian constitutional order.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68699	I agree that my colleague Grubisic, I agree with your remark that his colleague Grubisic broke his Rules of Procedure. Because you're calling another representative who doesn't have the right to answer that line for you. And I'm asking you nicely to stay away from that. Because we could work in one civilized, polite way to respect each other. Now the replica is being answered by Zvonko Milas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68700	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's the thing, even though Minister Bauk is right, and this isn't the subject of the report. Obviously, we can't pass that, so I'm going to refer to one part of Mr Grubisic's exposure where he said it was interesting that four, five years ago HDZ and the City Council were against it. Today it's the other way around. Well, I personally think to many who look at us or hear us, that it's simply a political struggle, and that those who are directly concerned with the fact that no one here is interested in what is with them. Who asked them what they thought about it? Those who do so directly, those who have to live with it every day and who have to kind of perceive and perceive it. And then we come to the fact that we have a law that was introduced in the way that it was introduced, and as someone had previously said, instead of being approached with caution, slowly, extremely subtlely in talking to everyone and anyone who could contribute to finding a solution, we had nightly law enforcement that ultimately resulted in a division that we never had in Croatian society at all, not just in Vukovar. In the end, the severe health damage of a man who literally lacks half his head. I was in the hospital and I saw him. Yeah, that's what you vice presidents can interpret, that has nothing to do with life. Look, there are drunks walking around today. But if someone's hard on them, I don't say hit them, throw them on the floor, it's another story. And in the end, I think we should actually focus a little more on them, not on ourselves fighting politics, outwitting ourselves, just making an absurd thing out of what we have today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68701	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68702	Since I received a warning from my club, and here we have an advocate to be gentle and to reduce tensions here and from the Vice President of the Assembly, which I respect, so I will not answer that your explanation of the signature or 2009 on the City Council of the HDZ and the explanation that such were political needs then etc., it actually looks like an explanation of yours to tell the head of the party in connection with the signing of this referendum for this and so forth.' But the fact that you and I, and I respect it very much, were in the Homeland War and saw and lived through a lot of things, and I'm not going to operate on what all the situations are, and even the Vukovars were coming to us at Slavonski-ship hospital and out of respect for you and this Parliament, I'm not going to talk any further about this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68703	Replica, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68704	Thank you very much. You spoke to your colleague Grubisic about some alleged irregularities in the Serbian Cultural Society of Education and you wondered who would resolve it. Here I have in my hands a memo that explains everything that happened there, allegedly, that was sent to the state's chief auditor and to 15 other addresses. My colleague Lesar looks at me. It says here you've been told to do the same. This was addressed on 18 February 2013. But that nothing behind the back was done under the 14th and 15th positions says that it was also delivered to Cedomir Višnić, president of the Serbian Cultural Society Education and Radi Dragojevic, director of the company Education. This raises several questions, and you mentioned a donation from the Japanese Embassy to build a school in Veljun where a member of the Serbian Cultural Society "Prostration" announced he took the money and left the wasteland. None of the competent institutions or individuals have responded so far. I think that society should not operate under this much burden in the future and that it should be clarified whether these allegations are correct or not. To continue to function, even here it is indicated that a company called Profi International has privatised the property of a cultural society. I think that these are some serious doubts, especially given by the university professor and member of the Cultural Society Education, and that this should be thoroughly done primarily by the State Audit and all other institutions examined in order to get rid of one of these great burdens that is plagued by the Society of Education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68705	Here's what you're talking about is a document from 2013 and we're discussing 2012. Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68706	A colleague, Maric, says so simply we are all equal before the law. So is the Serbian Cultural Society "Provoda" and the Serbian National Council and all our parties, associations and so on. All that we have in the state of Croatia, thank God we have enough of that. So given what you've said and what I know about what you've been talking about, the intransparency of work, the travel orders, the fees for some scientific work and the school in Veljun where the Japanese government put 41 thousand euros in the wind and she was planning to give another 60 I would say that silly political phrase unfortunately I have nothing else to say some institutions are doing their job.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68707	The last replica, Dragan Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68708	I'll talk about educational autonomy, education, so. Until '91. In years, Serbs were a constituent people and as such and as other constituent peoples in education were content that were the characteristics of the Serbian people as well as the constituent people and the Serbian language and the letter. Other national minorities had the right to their educational autonomy, but after '91. many things from the content of education are thrown out of books, etc., and Serbs have had to sort of preserve their educational autonomy, i.e. to tell my identity. Like other members of national minorities, we were able to choose according to the Law on Education and Education in one of the models. So this question of kindergarten I would rather say a colleague was talking about integration and assimilation. So, no assimilation and will is parents and children, but here no one has asked what they think about it? They don't enroll children in school, they enroll parents and children. In Vukovar, there is not one kindergarten with divided departments, so one group and another group. There are two kindergartens, there are two legal institutions. So, not two kindergartens. And that is the right of parents to send children to such a teaching to preserve their Serb identity as well as members of all other national minorities. As far as books are concerned, there is only one curricula, a curricula and a program in the Republic of Croatia. There is a catalogue of approved textbooks in the Republic of Croatia and even children to, therefore, not members of national minorities but also other children learn from different textbooks, or from different authors. Serbian children according to A model learn from a textbook written by Mrs. Snezana Koren, who was approved. So, there are no these topics Thank you. [[Intruder Stazic: Bring the end.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68709	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68710	Thank you very much. I know that there are so many models of colleagues, so textbooks. Just the textbook of Snow White, I forgot, but I knew it before, so right in the textbook of Snow White, this definition of the beginning or the beginning of the war, the Homeland War in Croatia. So there are more possibilities for textbooks. There are some in Slavonski Brod. That's very interesting, isn't it? And as for the use of symbols, etc., so we know, and I am very often on the road and I am both in the Court and the Glina and in the Iron, next to the Croatian flag stands the flag of the national minority of Serbia, etc., so no one has taken it down, either. Here, so I don't see how parents decide, I hope that as time goes by that parents will come to their senses to finally have children as normal to play together, to live together, and to grow up together as we did in the same way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68711	We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Melita Mulic, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68712	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I am otherwise not in favour of having the same person speak on behalf of the club, so individually but individually I wanted to look back on the special position of the right and consume the right of one particular national minority, which is the second in number in the Republic of Croatia and no one is talking about it. All day we've been talking about the rights of the Serb national minority, I don't think that it is happier or more privileged and we're actually talking all day about events that don't apply to the reference year and a series of inaccuracies has been presented and how otherwise the MPs are talking about what they want and I'm going to say some things now and let's say to my colleague, Miles, who was talking about some setting up under cover of the night and choosing the right moment and I don't know what, so I'm going to remind you, your government, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, in which your party's president as interior minister, has unanimously reached a conclusion that the implementation of which has been waiting for the census. The law began to apply when the census was met. According to that census, what I initially referred to myself for, the second largest national minority is Bosniaks in the Republic of Croatia, in the Republic of Croatia, 31.5 thousand or 0.73%, 16 thousand Bosniaks have been said to speak Bosnian. In the Republic of Croatia, there is no school according to model a or model b or model c where the Bosnian language, culture, geography, literature is taught. My colleague Vuksic said something about this morning that very badly when we base identity on religion only, and I don't know what else you listed, the nation or I don't know what, but there's no identity without language, no literature. I opened the issue on the Committee on the Rights of National Minorities, I was told, there was also a representative of the Bosniak National Minority, were representatives of the Ministry of Science that the Bosniak National Minority was so distributed by the Republic of Croatia and that there is no place where it can be organised. But in some places, therefore, there are councils of national minorities, there are representatives of national minorities. I think it really takes efforts together, united, local communities, the competent ministry, representatives of national minorities, and all of us here together to keep things together. Because if that's our pride, if that's why they were needed as in terms of multiculturality, and if it took a long time to get the Bosniaks back to the Constitution if it happens that we don't have any schools, I don't really know if the next census is going to look any more like it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68713	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas, Tink Millas, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68714	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Mulic, first of all, I would like to say that this government is my government too, whether I voted for it or not, it was chosen by the Croatian people, therefore this government is my government. Secondly, I didn't replicate to you, and this setting up of the record as I said under cover of the night because it literally didn't matter if we were going to go to legal postulate with the statutes of the city of Vukovar because this was initiated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia or by the statutes, so it has nothing to do with each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68715	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68716	Thank you. I'll give you a very precise answer. I did not refer to the statutes of the city of Vukovar or what was the city council in 2009, I referred to the decisions made by the Croatian Government, then and my Government as you say it nicely, so then the coalition HDZ government and in order to meet the obligations to join the EU, where we wanted to adopt an action plan for the implementation of the Constitutional Law which was primarily missing when it comes to national minorities' rights to language and letter. So it was two separate things, and in that context I called you inconsistencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68717	Thank you, too. Miss twilight, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68718	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, dear colleague Mulic, you've been very threatening your colleague, Milas, and here I am not going to defend him, and he can only be himself very badly, it looked very bad with his finger when you waved towards him. I wanted to say, here you remember very well and you yourself worked at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and you probably didn't feel the least discriminated against in that Croatian government, and you certainly don't feel right now. But here we were together in Belgrade, and the BiH lady when it comes to national minorities, there are no national minorities, these are the others, because the constituent people in the BiH are Croats, Serbs and Bosniaks and others. Well, you see, that's a bit of a problem now. Now someone should wave a finger and say why there are no listed national minorities in these entities as if they don't even live there.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68719	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68720	Thank you. If I hope my colleague Milas didn't feel hurt because of my temperament, you're also yelling only in Zagreb, I guess I'm yelling Herzegovic Dalmatian, so it looks like, I'm sorry and the proposal of the concepts of national minorities. You've already referred to it once. I mean, I wouldn't want to be a doctor, but for the quality of the debate. In the former Socialist Federation, Yugoslavia did not become a concept of minorities, there were peoples and peoples so that they could not talk about the same terminology and then you now refer to BiH that knows the constituent peoples and others. So it's about completely different systems, social arrangements and all that. The Republic of Croatia is the state of the Croatian people and national minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68721	Frano Matushuic replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68722	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Mulić, I would agree with you that the rights of all national minorities should be respected and allowed if possible to express themselves and to have special TV shows etc. As well as the Bosniak national minority. But are you not concerned that at the same time the Croatian people who are a constituent people in BiH do not have the right to their programme in Croatian? So a people who are constitutive who should have equal rights as the Serbian people and the Bosniak people have no right to their own language their programme, etc. Isn't that disturbing? We are talking about the rights of national minorities and I agree with my colleague Grubisic, we have the highest standards in Europe. We can discuss this peacefully today without great tensions and problems with the national minority who rebelled against Croatia. That's the facts. So when we talk about Serbs with one particular sensitivity, we talk about the fact that Serbian citizens rebelled against Croatia as an independent state and went to war and bombed, killed, etc. I mean, those are facts. But today we have the strength to speak truly calmly without some particularly great emotions about the rights of national minorities that are greatest. And I agree, the question in France, why France has no national minority and has no rights stemming from those laws that treat national minorities. They do not have the right to finance certain institutions in their own language either, etc. So that's what this is about. Let's take care of the Croats in BiH to get a final programme in Croatian, they are a constituent people. And I agree some Bosniaks get a program somewhere quite safe on HRT. But this is a much bigger problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68723	Thank you. Here's your answer, Comrade Mulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68724	Thank you. I'd like to clarify two things. None of us are slow, and we all know that members of the Serb national minority participated in an armed rebellion, so it was aggression, it's all clear, but you can't ban or restrict the members of the Serb national minority's right to their programme today. A promotion of the equality and consistency of Croats in BiH, you and I are going together to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and I use every opportunity to point to the unequal status and position of Croats in BiH. My constitutional obligation is to take care of them. And we can fully agree on both the left and right that it is necessary for the Croats in BiH to ensure that they have legal and legitimate political representatives both in parliament and in the presidency. But the propos of language these same legal, legitimate representatives have been in certain structures and negotiations for years and the question of language and its equal use of Croatian language in Bosnianhercegovic media is a subject that is more out of everyone's ears. And I sometimes wonder if it's really like someone who was born in BiH whether it really wanted to get rid of it at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68725	Thank you, too. Josip Djakic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68726	Thank you very much. Well, you explained everything nicely only hard to forget what is the difficulties of the Croatian people and what Vukovar is for the Croatian state. The suffering that occurred after World War II in these areas except Srebrenica did not occur such a species either human or culturally or materially in any respect of such a disaster in these areas was not as it was in Vukovar. And why is there nowhere else the issue of Cyrillic than in Vukovar? So because of the drinking itself, because of the memory of the victims, because of the thousands of unfound human bodies that were killed as civilians, which soldiers because of their dignity, funerals and all that should follow to end this terrible episode of the Croatian people. Legal frameworks were passed, the application could be delayed until that time when these victims were suffering from pythetics. It could have been the same as we delayed military service and eventually abolished it as a commitment in the Croatian state so that there would be no such confrontations. Similarly, a number of other things that the law of the Republic of Croatia did not apply in an unintegrated area. Just to calm the tensions, to make time, to reconcile, to peace, toleration, to be together now it's all broken. This is why it was marred because of boast and intent that neither Serbs themselves said today but only in all of Croatia 1.23% said their native language is Serbian, which is not even 40,000 Serbs in Croatia. What are we talking about today?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68727	Thank you. Time, fellow Djakic. Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68728	Thank you. I don't think there's a thing that you and I would have gotten along better, and that's the victim of Vukovar, Vukovar, Croatian people and the Croatian suffering that was there, I really don't mean it. It's just that I might think there might be some things to talk about, but the law can't be partially applied. But I think you and I are talking about a certain climate. It is not just a question of Vukovar, the climate has been created, and I do not think it is the responsibility of the Croatian government to remove bilingual tablets that have been there for many years in all other places where you have over 80% of the Serbian population. The municipality of Diocese, so I prepared myself for this debate for a full list of broken tables on the Cyrillic of the unacquainted Serbian cultural society "Prosveda" and onward Osijek, Udbin, Bishop, Split. So where there's a complete minority, the river, where it's never happened to where most of them are like, so like the diocese community around Knin. And I don't think you really should have done it alone for the sake of the improvement and prosperity of Croatian society to allow the kind of destruction you've been doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68729	Thank you. We continue the individual debate between Dragan Montenegrins. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68730	Respect. So here I am, as in my individual debate at the beginning, as other colleagues first look back, so this report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law has, above all, a framework in the highest categories, constitutional categories of the Republic of Croatia. So, the very Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, the Law on Equal Official Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia, the Law on Education and Education in the Language and Letter of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia, in other international conventions which the Republic of Croatia is a signator of and which it has come to, in international bilateral agreements, international agreements and other conventions. This framework that was created in some way and which the Republic of Croatia approached is good. However, what we have in practice and in these reports, we see that in some parts of the application of these regulations is selective. And that's why we're not satisfied, not only with the application of this law, but perhaps with the law itself that we say is one of which has the highest standards. Because a law that has the highest standards and is not implemented or applied selectively means that it is not good. At the beginning of today's debate, I replicated the minister with a replica, reminding him, or asking him why the law referred to in Article 6 was not consummated during this period in 2012. A constitutional law that speaks of the acquired rights of a particular minority. Mr. Minister replied that I received the answer in writing. In response, it states that certain members of certain national minorities have the right and that it is not against the constitution that certain national minorities have other or different rights than other national minorities that have acquired international conventions, i.e. bilateral contracts or previously acquired rights. This refers to the appointment of officials to high posts in ministries as I have today said in internal affairs, justice, education and culture. So far all governments, all executive authorities, so to speak in the Republic of Croatia have applied this and we have consumed this. Unfortunately, here we have since 2012. We do not consume this right. So I'd like to appeal again, so it's just that we're allowed to consume this right. As far as the matter is concerned, there has been a lot of talk today about the official, or Law of Official Use of Language and Letters. Well, I would say first at first, although there have been very many views here, I would say that they are absolutely justified because the political views of certain political groups. But I'd say we have to distinguish as we heard the language and the letter today. If someone says in the Republic of Croatia that it is his native language, that his Serbian mother tongue is not Serbian, it may mean that it is an ekavica. Maybe he thinks it's his catch and there's no right for anyone to hold him back. But the letter, the letter is Cyrillic. And the official use of language and letters on these boards or boards is, above all, about the official use of the letter of the national minority. So, letters. As far as that goes, and by referring to Vukovar, many here have said that, here we are talking about the 2012 Report. And I said, "I've just set up a replica for Mr. Secretary, and I said that in 2009, the Statute of the city of Vukovar was changed. First census since '91. It's 2001. So, by 2001, in Vukovar, and I would say initially that Serbs had not come or moved to Vukovar in '91. in 2001 or in 2011 rather than living there for centuries and in large numbers. Why? Probably because of various immigrations, because of different employment needs, etc. They have a tradition of their own. So by 2001, we can believe that there were bilingual inscriptions in Vukovar. After 2001, when the census said 32.89% of Serbs living in the town of Vukovar di had almost a third of the threshold changed. The Statute of 2001 was amended, but there were still individual panels on bilingual, or bilingual, predominantly in kindergartens, schools, minority institutions, etc. So it's not something that's unknown, it's not something that's unknown in Vukovar. So in 2009, the Statute was amended. And you know how? Because we are then, regardless of political accusations now, but members of other political parties have simply said, so we can well believe that Serbs traditionally live here. This does not prevent the Constitutional Law or the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters, or allows the amendment of the basic act of the units of local self-government, and we have therefore amended it. I don't know why it would be so controversial. I think here, here's exactly what an article 8 says, so there's been eight constitutional laws, so there's just been some kind of trust building, etc. I think it's okay. But I'll be back again. Therefore, according to that Statute, no official application in the services of the city of Vukovar was made in 2012 either, the adopted statute did not apply. I think that today, here we heard today that a lot of people were banging those tables. I was the other day, 15.1. was marking peaceful reintegration, I had a chance to hear from a lady who said that she, she lost her husband, so the defender in Vukovar. And she accused some other people who took off those plates to leave us alone, to live normally in Vukovar, and that doesn't matter to us anymore. We have to create a future, we have to create an environment and an atmosphere where we can normally live. This is a question of the law and the application of the law which is applicable in other parts of the country. Unfortunately, however, I have to point out that by 2012, it was not applied to those units of local self-government where over one third of the population is an example of Serbia. A colleague mentioned that these are local self-government units of Trpinj, for example, Diocese, Kistanje, etc., Dvor etc. So there's a lot of them. But it's not even a day today, and it hasn't been applied in 2012. As regards this employment, i.e. proportionate employment, data suggests that the relative employment ratio in the authorities of the state administration, the judiciary, the police, the attorney's office, etc. Why? Let's just say that she has recently prevented this government's decision to ban employment while the economic crisis is going on. Well, we witness many affairs today, we witness many employment through connections, etc., new employment. In the case of members of national minorities, unfortunately, only members of national minorities are subject to this decision. So I'm asking the government to abolish this decision. It means that it abolishes this decision which, therefore, did not implement the issue in 2012. As far as education is concerned, therefore school registration is not completed, even though Serbs have the right to educational autonomy. Educational and cultural autonomy in the fullest sense of that word. I will say when the law is, therefore, not in the language and letter, but in the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities on representation in the representative executive bodies of the units of local and regional self-government I will remember that there were very great obstructions when this law was to be applied to certain counties and cities. Although there was no problem, the government in the county or local self-government unit was not the same at the state level, and it was very difficult to do so. It couldn't wait when it changed, too, it couldn't wait. And I'm going to point out here that in one local self-government unit, we even have an example of the captain's salary giving less than a cleaning lady, a minority deputy. That's disastrous. It's so disrespectful to members of the national minority that it's embarrassing. As far as housing is concerned, here I am, too, leaving it for the end, but that may be the problem that is really very much in the very good part, perhaps the most troubling. Unfortunately, in 2012, this problem was almost not resolved at all. According to the census, I was speaking from '91. The Serbs were 586 thousand, from 2001 they were 201 thousand, and from 2011. 186,000. Although in this period there was talk of returning to the Republic of Croatia through reconstruction and housing we now have a de facto situation not to return people so that the number was increased but that the number from 2001 was higher than from 2011 by some 15 thousand. So, de facto, we didn't do a good job of doing it, and I think the government has to do more, and we talked about budgeting, and we gave our amendments. I'm going to say something at the end about the media, the gentleman was saying, as far as we're concerned, we're not happy with the normal media. We're not happy because the shows are meant for "Prize", "Mozaika" and so on. they absolutely do not correspond to what national minorities should present their problems of political, legal and other nature. And I'm just going to say that the law says that 3% of the HRT fee should be allocated to pluralism of the media. This if we take that a billion and 300 million HRT is coming from the fee, so that 3% of the world's 39 million kuna, and out of that, in the realisation of the programme and in the private media, it doesn't go very little, but they just serve
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68731	Time. Here will be a chance through the replicas to finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68732	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68733	Tink Milas, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68734	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I wouldn't want to oversimplify a fellow Montenegrin, but two, three things I'd say just for the sake of the truth. So, the truth is the Serbian people have always lived on the premises of Vukovar and Podunov, but it's also true that in late '91, or early '92. until '98. Almost was maltene represented 100% in the population structure. For a simple reason, Croats were expelled, so more or less all non-Serbs, and this resulted in a return, so about 25 to 30 thousand Croats being persecuted by a large number of them not returned at all. Which is because of death, which is because of finding life elsewhere, which is for different reasons. So we can't look at things simply in the context that Serbs have always lived there. Yes, it's true, and no one escapes from it. I have friends today, and I'm going to stay friends while I'm alive, and I don't need to talk about it at all. You should simply put things in the context of what was happening and what was happening at the time. And the job is that there is no for Croatians and for all other Croatians, unfortunately, the national minority shares the fate of the population of Croatia. And we all have to work together to turn that story into another positive direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68735	Thank you. Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68736	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague of Montenegro, you said that the application of the Constitutional Law does not fully apply or that it applies selectively, that there is no appointment in ministries, state bodies, etc. Although the report says that it is 87.5% that the Constitutional Law has also implemented an action plan that has achieved its results in 2012 I believe that these 12.5% bother you that the Serbian National Council has not proposed its representatives to the ministries etc. But if what President Josipovic says is true, then there is no need. There is no need for your proposals or appointments since the president says there are more Serbs than in all the mandates the SDSS was in the ruling coalition. Even in the government. This shows that the Serbian government's representation with a good national policy such as that of the parties to the Kukuriku coalition and, above all, the SDP is clearly reflected and there is no need for Popovec's proposals. As for funding and other transparency in spending money, the Serbian Cultural Council would also be justified if they explained that Japanese money was spent and the school in Veljun is in a ruinous state. This would be ideal if we could get from the review of the results of the competition, spent and how the Japanese embassy is looking for a refund of that money, then they would believe that it is spent transparently in the restoration of schools, the use of languages and everything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68737	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68738	Okay, you're talking to me especially in this last one, you probably think we're responsible here, believe we're not. I'd like the same thing for the review to determine what it was. I did hear about that case, but I don't know it until the end. Mr. Grubisic talked about it today. I would like to see what is wrong and whether everything is legally implemented. That's the first thing. Another thing, as regards the action plan, Mr Djakic, the action plan was adopted during the HDZ government, the action plan was one of the components of Croatia's negotiations in the EU, perhaps it was not important but let's say in this respect it reflected the will to implement the Constitutional Law through this action plan that we can even discuss whether it was well publicly exposed or not, because many resent that it was not even publicly exposed. What about the presentation? When we talk about representation means we have to say that the only legitimate Serb community to propose its representatives, you have for the Croatian national minority, even here you have talked a lot about Serbia so whether even the ministers and I don't know some other people were in the government but they were not representatives of the Croatian community, they were members of the Croatian community. And so these colleagues in the government, the ministers I want and all the other people I wish for successful work, are not unfortunately our representatives, and I will tell you, they are not our representatives, and I will say one more thing, perhaps you do not know either you or other colleagues, based on the European Agreement and letters of intent to say this duty belongs to the joint council of municipalities for proposing these representatives, so these are not our representatives and thank you for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68739	Thank you. Mile Horvat replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68740	Thank you. From your debate, I'm just going to single out two things to try to simplify this employment fact in some way. Therefore, members of national minorities have in any case a reduction in the chance of employment. Why? We have a first reason, a general ban on employment. It is logical that while some work is being opened that, above all, it will take into account quality references, the profession that the majority people will then take precedence over the minority. That's what the data says. The second thing is that it happens in practice, when a person retires, when he retires and takes his place as a new worker regularly and was previously a member of the national minority, it is expected that a member of the national minority is then admitted to that place to keep that structure, the structure to which we are constantly calling. That's not happening either. And the third thing is, we have so-called. the call to the Institute of Advantages as a member of the national minority when it comes to the same other references, quality, knowledge, etc. That thing doesn't work either. People are calling for an advantage in employment as members of national minorities in state institutions, and the matter is not respected. About the media, just for a little while. People are asking how it is possible that a renowned show called Fine Ours never had in its programme the propagation of some culture of the Serb community in the Republic of Croatia, no show has ever been recorded in a local self-government unit where the majority Serb population is. And now a logical conclusion is being made? Is it possible that somehow she doesn't want to show that there's a place in our pretty house that has some other culture to show than the one we've seen in the last 15 years on that show?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68741	Here's a response from a fellow Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68742	I would say, as far as proportional employment is concerned, that especially when we talk about the Serb community, what I say is the best relationship was being placed in this part of the area where the reintegration was so because it was simply such an agreement to employ members of the Serb national minority but also other national minorities not only Serbian. Today, however, we hear without foundation, these very people who work in these institutions are baselessly accused just because they are Serbs and then speculated on certain things, etc. Unfortunately, too, this proportional representation is lost because a colleague has just said that not even this employment law applies. As for the right to information on the public service of the HRT, I think that in many years not only through our institutions of minority and other national minorities but also by the Council for National Minorities, we have expressed very clearly that we are not satisfied with the way the public service presents these things. For the first reason, is the public content and public interest of the Republic of Croatia which must, or the public service of that matter, carry out these tasks, and is, among other things, established. Normal for other things. Whether or not to inform members of national minorities. Members of the national minorities regularly pay the fee but therefore, in some ways, they simply have no ear on HRT to change these things. As far as private concessionaires are concerned, they take those funds from the media pluralism fund, but they don't broadcast at all, they just take the money, they send the report, and that's it. There was even a public debate about it, and I think there was an affair about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68743	Thank you. Vladimir Bilek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68744	Thank you very much, Vice President. The Honorable Ministers. Well, a colleague of the Montenegrins you said about sharing your exposure on several topics, I'd look first and foremost at two. The first is education, here we have heard a lot about problems here in the A model of education, we have A, B and C model in the Republic of Croatia. According to me, where possible and where there is a possibility that A model is implemented I think it is a great thing not to single out children but above all we can say for example of the Czech minority where this year the Czech elementary school Jana Amosa Komenski in Daruvar is 92 years old or the Czech elementary school Josip Ružička from Končanica, which is about two months of central school work, so we saw there in A model we have opportunities where a model teaches children in Czech but we have departments within that school by A model that are Croatian departments. So I invite you first of all both the Minister and you and President Josipovic because we discussed a similar topic with him to come and see how it can work so that school events can be not bilingual in terms of translation but that they are fully guided, they are doing bilingually, that these children and people in that part have quality co-existence and that's what I think first of all would be the goal because when we look at the structure within our kindergartens, our schools, there are not just children of members of the Serbian national minority, Czech or Italian. We can say that in our schools there are more than 40% of children who are written as Croats means children of Croatian parents, children from mixed marriages who primarily use the possibility of learning language and letters that may help them in future and in employment, when they seek their bread. And the second part is primarily the media where you say we separate and allocate funds for pluralism, but there are very few shows in the language and letter, or in the language of the national minorities, rather than most if it enters the HRT space, which is mostly some news that is significant and that goes primarily in that direction when something is going on that is unsuitable for the complete RH where minorities are in danger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68745	Thank you. The answer of a colleague of the Montenegrins. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68746	Yes, this second statement of yours is extremely in place and it stands so, but I would say in this first part of the first part of this year, so it's not about 2012 but here in 2013 a student in the competition in Vukovar-Srijem County won them Croatian language and literature first place and goes to classes in Serbian and Cyrillic letters. Such children have a very good class. What's the prerequisite for that is that there's enough resources to keep these classes quality. Unfortunately, in 2012, we had in some way a reduction in funding from the Ministry of Education from kindergarten to college. Unfortunately, there are reduced opportunities to translate textbooks, to take new didactic equipment, etc. We are aware that the country is in crisis, we are aware that maybe some things we can no longer expect to get but not forever but one or two years. Unfortunately, here we are now in 2014 unfortunately, these funds are even smaller. So I think that this class, no matter what it's going through, is in a certain way, I think it's very good quality, and it shows the results to children who attend that class.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68747	Boro Grubisic replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68748	You spoke of a fellow Montenegrin about the decline in the number of people, or the number of people who plead as Serbian nationalities. However, the total number of inhabitants in Croatia fell by 290,000 or 7%. You have just cited figures that exactly say that the number of Serbs has fallen, so the number of Serbs and the number of others and Croats and all others in the Republic of Croatia has dropped in the past 10 years from 2001 until the 2011 census, so there is no dramatic reduction, because the population has fallen on all sides. Secondly, you were talking about employment and I'd say regular discrimination with such quiet discrimination so when someone goes as Mile Horvat says in retirement to replace himself with someone who's other nationalities. However, I know in court in Karlovac and in the Slavonski Brod court there was a competition for a judge, representative of the Serbian national minority, and you know who was accepted? So who one of the leaders from your party or the Serbian National Council suggested it. This other one was very angry at Slavonski Brod, complaining to me, I wrote but it went the way it went. So there are other things. As far as HTV's programming character is concerned, I would love it if the head of the Municipality of Borovo Selo called the Introductor and I would say to the nice one in Borovo Selo, he would be overjoyed. And has the call ever arrived? So tell me, maybe you know you're from that neighborhood. And it is not true that there are no elements in the shows Nice Ours that would talk about the Serbian national minority and their cultural values. In Garcino, in front of four thousand viewers who may not be counting blood cells now, were Serbs, was the Cultural Art Society of Lovor from Trnjan, who cherished Serbian folklore traditions and performed the most normal on the show of Nice Ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68749	Thank you. The answer of Dragan Black.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68750	Well, here I would thank you for the opportunity, but I know in a particular case Mr. Horvat was referring to the show that was recorded in the White monastery. As for Borov or other units of local self-government, let's not say it's not the task of the local self-government unit, but it's certainly the task of the HRT. The question is maybe he couldn't even get to Branko Introductic and ask if he wanted to answer it. Maybe you'd answer me, I agree, maybe he didn't try. But it's HRT's obligation, it's public content, it's a public interest to involve these things. As far as the court is concerned, I wish there were more cases like this. But me, I've heard about this one now, and I haven't heard of any more examples of employment. As far as the population's concerned, I'd really like to thank you for your replica. I've replicated it in this way extremely due to the problem of housing, means bringing people back to their homes like you say. So, former housing rights holders or people rebuilding houses, so that's what they had. Although during that period, it was working on that job and the number of people, let's say, made the conditions for them to return. We, however, are saying statistics that around 130,000 Serbs have returned to Croatia. Unfortunately, we don't have an increase in numbers regardless of the total population that this, let's say, is equivalent to showing that the total population is reduced. We expected to have at least the same number of inhabitants if not slightly larger, because we know that the Republic of Croatia is unfortunately leaving because of the difficult conditions of life, because of the inability of young people who find it in some other countries, unfortunately it is that and we must and we all admit it, but unfortunately it is our daily life. So this issue of population has been primarily raised on the basis of the issue of housing that no one here today has or has spoken very little of it unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68751	Thank you. Josip Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68752	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, a colleague of the Montenegrins, you also mentioned article 8. Constitutional law on national minorities. I'll read it. The provisions of this Constitutional Law and the provisions of specific laws governing the rights and freedoms of members of national minorities must be interpreted and applied with the purpose of respecting members of the national minorities of the Croatian people, the development, understanding, solidarity, tolerance and dialogue between them. For a year and more, we have kept asking the leading politicians of this country to interpret him, to interpret him as he writes. She said a colleague from the SDP did not partially implement the law, not partially. Why, then, the percentage of local self - administration would be more important than Article 8 of that same law. The minister of the administration doesn't want to interpret it, he doesn't want the prime minister, he doesn't want the President of the Republic. Has everything that was so unprepared overnight happened in Vukovar after midnight, and has been warned of that long before it has already been reported that this work has contributed to understanding, solidarity, tolerance and dialogue among all. Are we smarter today after a few months and after these events? Did that contribute to that? Well, it's clear to everyone that it's not. So why is there such a thing as a cap or an int? Which is why it is done in spite of someone when in all other places in local self-government it worked, it has been achieved. But he's not in Vukovar, and he obviously won't. So why does this law go a little bit in the way it fits the current majority? That's the problem. Well, we've recently testified that a citizen of Serbian nationality is taking off that same record. And she started to bother him, and she brought his safety, maybe some of his rights into question. So why does he insist on not implementing Article 8 but insists on conducting another article that fits some kind of article, so let’s say either to the national minority or to the government, and the minister does not want to explain to us today what this article means.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68753	Thank you. Answer, here's a fellow Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68754	I respect your political position to interpret the law in such a way as perhaps your colleagues in your party or the club of representatives. But that's not how I see it. I do not see that the spirit of Article 8 prevents anything, but that it improves, that is, to make it positive in some way discrimination. Let's say I was talking about the time we changed the statutes of 2009. So, we have, together with the other, assessed to the political representatives that, here in some way, no matter what they are not, which one of the conditions is not met we have said that it is time to respect both tradition and tolerance between Serbs and Croats that is at a sufficient level, so that this could be introduced. So that's how we experience it. As for the example you've been making of breaking the board. So I set the example that some Croats say the same thing that should be done. In Vukovar, I once entered this controversy with my colleague Mesic. He said that in Vukovar they normally exist in the protected cultural core of the city signs only on Cyrillic. If you go to the Museum of the City of Vukovar recently opened, you will see that there have always been bilingual inscriptions in the tradition of Vukovar. So that's what's in the Vukovar museum now. So, here's some I know that you're calling this moment that it's not working to say so, but I'm going to tell you one more thing. We enforce the laws but we are happy to have them and we want them, or we expect not only the current, current government, but also any other authority to implement the law. Because if the law is passed then it needs to be implemented, and if it isn't implemented then we can't even talk about any part of the rule of law. I think this is a question that politicians really need to leave behind, because to say the tensions have grown since the census results were published. And we've already had protests from some in the second month. who participated, unfortunately, and some political groups. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68755	Thank you. And the final word came from Minister Arsen Bauk. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68756	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, in the 2012 report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, we have highlighted two more important things that we are not satisfied with, which we failed in 2012, and unfortunately in the good part or in 2013 to fix. One share of the members of the national minority in the authorities of the state administration and in public services, given that the prohibition is in force, the 2009 decision on the prohibition of employment, with certain exceptions that the same decision takes. In 2012, about 800 officials were admitted to the state administration system, of which more than 600 refer to the Ministry of the Interior because of the Schengen regime as an international commitment, and in 2013, the number was about 600, also 370 and something in the Ministry of the Interior. So, the total since the takeover of power to date in the state administration is somewhere around 1,500 employees, so it's out of the system about 3,000 with these 1,000 and something in two years that's been received. It's a number. So that all those who were admitted are members of the national minorities, the percentage could not be improved too much. And also, the fact is that most of the employees of the state bodies in the City of Zagreb are. The territorial part, therefore, is then taken into account, because in the City of Zagreb below the average number of members of the national minorities live, and therefore the possibility of employment is thus lower in the Zagreb area as a rule. So that's the one thing that we've turned our attention to and we're aware that there's room for repair. The second concerns the use of language and letter by national minorities. And someone actually said, and that's what I said in public appearances, that there is not a single bilingual or two-letter traffic sign in the Republic of Croatia yet. Not only in these units of local self-government where this would be a little more problematic, but also in these other units of local self-government where members of the Serb minority live over 90%. That's two things we have to fix at this age. As regards the topic which once again occupied the afternoon part of the debate, its position on Article 8 is in application of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. The Government of the Republic of Croatia explained in detail in its opinion the basis of a proposal for a conclusion that 50 and some representatives of the Croatian Parliament referred to the Parliament for discussion and I appeal to the Presidency and to the President of the Croatian Parliament to put this item on the agenda as soon as possible and then to discuss it. And then we could face arguments about it. So that subject does not overshadow what was in 2012 and does not overshadow other problems. The fact is that the Cyrillic issue in Vukovar at one point became the main political issue not only for the implementation of minority rights but for the overall political issue, and therefore it is good that here at least in the morning part of the debate it did not dominate the report on the implementation of the National Minorities Act as it would be logical that, when the 2013 Report is held, if we do not discuss it before then, we should pay a little more attention to it. I don't want to go into local political games, or I'd like to get in as little as possible. Well, that's where I'm gonna stay with my final presentation. I thank everyone who participated in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68757	Thank you, Minister. We have three replicas. Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68758	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, yes, the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has arrived on the credible interpretation of Article 8. Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. And we wanted to put this on the Committee of War Veterans as an interested body to discuss this, your mayor of the SDP twice at two sessions has taken down elegantly with his most possibility to discuss, to discuss both the government's opinion and the proposal of MPs in order to get into the Croatian Parliament a defined position and the opinion of all of us. The same way we kept mentioning the pitet towards Vukovar, which was forgotten. This whole story doesn't really exist. Drink and reason. Reason for the victim, reason for suffering, reason for genocide, culture, ecocid, and everything there is done, reason for all those who suffer today. As there is no German anthem in Auschwitz, at least until the victims experience their satisfaction, until they find themselves and discover themselves and the criminals are punished there should be nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68759	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68760	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Therefore, I do not think it would be a good idea to discuss this in the Croatian Parliament and to conclude that the Government has not made a mistake in most of the demands 50 and some representatives of the Croatian Parliament. I would like to do so personally because this would further illustrate the government's decision to abolish some articles of the Statute of the city of Vukovar before the Constitutional Court. And the one who will ultimately evaluate it, so that statute and the provisions we speak of, is the Constitutional Court. As for the tactical treatment of members of the ruling coalition on the board, of course, it would be inappropriate for the minister to comment on the handling of MPs, I can only say what I would do if I were them, I can say that is not inappropriate. I'd argue with most of them, and I wouldn't vote those conclusions. However, I wish the parent board had said something about this, it would have been the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, because the opinion given by the Government is in many calls for documents brought by the Governments of the Republic of Croatia in a different party system including the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and Article 8 because the Croatian people are in Article 8. The constitutional law on the rights of national minorities entered as an amendment to Jadranka Kosor's 2002 representative, who very well explained why she believes it should be written there. And among other things, she explained because of the conduct of members of national minorities there when they make up the majority because it was reported that, for example, in some of these municipalities, Croatia's anthem was not intonated. It's my interpretation of Article eight but there's going to be a debate, so I believe we'll be able to further inform about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68761	Branko Vuksic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68762	Dear Minister Bauk, you are in trouble now because you have told us what we are looking for and you agree with it from the Greek policies until Milanovic, after Milanovic no, democracy is the rule of conversation, here no conversation will be heard, here we listen to his monologues and all the honors of you who have said let's have a fine face, discuss it, talk about it anyway most of them have their votes and most will raise their hands so that it is quite commendable that you and in the way that you followed the session. From just one note to Mr Djakic, so of course the Auschwitz won't play in Poland's German film, Auschwitz is not in Germany.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68763	Here's your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68764	Thank you, Mr. Representative, for your commendation. I won't even call for restraint in praise, who knows how it can be understood, this. So this is a topic that I've at least naively thought about there since 2008, 9, 10, when, in fact, Christ was born in 2004, which I thought we'd closed that page of our history and then locked up when General Gotovina in the square said, let's turn to the future. That's what I thought naively at the time, but it's obvious that there are times when, for daily political reasons, this topic can be updated again, and then let's talk about it one more time, close it again, and possibly lock it up again so it doesn't burden us not to put that past on us in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68765	Thank you. Davor's Mlakar replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68766	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, I've been thinking whether or not to answer this question at all, but I have to say that you've provoked me to some of your performances, it seems to me that this is an important topic to speak ironically about who is when, at which point, and at which most of the votes you've made a decision. What you believe or want to believe is that some topic has stopped being attractive or needed today is, of course, your right as your right and you suggest that item 64 of the agenda comes tomorrow on the agenda but I'm afraid you won't succeed. However, you have also said something to us about Article 8 but this article 8 for which you have some arguments as you have explained it, so you can understand it, but it does not say so in the Constitutional Law. We are talking about the texts of the law as it says and what motives were for a certain norm to enter into the law that is another question and thus you do not answer what we have been saying all along, which is that the Constitutional Law on the Rights of Minorities should be applied in its entirety. However, you said something else that made you seem to have been found somewhere that traffic signs were not given bilingually in the area of the Republic of Croatia, so somehow your statement went. I don't think you're right. Because the whole of Istria seems to me entirely those sites tied to highways and put bilingual with everything else, and on the other hand, I don't see how you could show bilingualism. I wonder what a two-language parking ban would look like, and is it really some trend that we need to pursue today? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68767	Thank you. Here's your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68768	Thank you. Mr. Representative, you've noticed very well. I first said bilingually then I remembered those signs in Istria, so I corrected myself and said two-letter. So that's what you noticed. Although I would have certain objections as to the name of Istrian towns and municipalities, and I find it unnatural that the town of Pula is called Pula-Paula in Croatian, its name is Pula, Italian Paula, and so should be written in a normal country. No, no. In Croatian, it is called Pula-Paula, according to the Law on City Areas, Towns and County and most of the settlements to which it refers, so that is what if we went strictly to see it, should be in Zagreb when the plane goes to Pula, that it goes to Pula-Paul, and then there should be another slag and written in Italian but it doesn't matter it's now a little bit I've already walked a little in detail. As regards the interpretation of Article 8 or the application of Article 8 it therefore states that the law should be interpreted and applied, it must be interpreted and applied with all those provisions which, otherwise in this opinion, are prescribed in the Framework Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, it seems to me now that I do not have a jokebacher to say exactly that I am not in error. But look, I don't know how otherwise it can be interpreted as introducing equal use of language and letter where there is more than one third of the list, it can't be interpreted in any other way than that and how it can be applied it is now a good question, we thought it should be applied gradually to start only on boards of state institutions and let the conditions be created so in one symbolic and in the least start with it or that at one meeting where I had the opportunity to participate a deputy mayor from the order of the Serbian national minority say, don't force or give up. That would be the most accurate formulation, and I think we're headed that way, not entirely, but at this smallest, least, and have a compromise when someone tells you nothing, there's never room for compromise, at least I don't see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68769	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68770	The following is the 2012 report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds secured in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for the needs of national minorities. The debate on the report is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds secured in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012 for the needs of national minorities is accepted." Please state who's for the proposed conclusion? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. We can get a score. I find that most votes, 90 votes in favour and 24 abstentions have accepted the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68771	We move to - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political activities of election promotion Proposer – Club of Independent Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HGS MPs, first reading, P.Z. No. 409 The legislator is the Club of Independent Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HGS. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You've received reports. On behalf of the promoter, Mrs. Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68772	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll be very brief because the motion to amend and supplement this law that I know of course will not be accepted, but anyway. I think the message that would be sent from the Parliament, that is, if the amendments and additions of this law were accepted, was good and acceptable, especially at times when we had just come to the budget rebalance, so we have serious problems with the state budget, of course especially with the expenditures of the state budget. However, this proposal is in front of you because of the fact that I believe that the law should always and at any moment try to adapt to real life, try to detect shortcomings and, of course, when it comes to financing electoral promotion of political activities, so when it comes to financing political parties. Because everything changes only here, the financing of political parties, those who have representatives or councillors at state or local level does not generally change. So, what's the main thing about this amendment and the addition of the law? Criterion. Therefore, the basic criterion by which the parties, parliamentary parties, so the parties who win seats in the Croatian Parliament, but also the council members in cities, counties and municipalities, are allocated funds from the budget, so state or local, is the most important basic criterion for the number of representatives, i.e. the number of councilors. And that is the criterion by which at the beginning of the term of office it decides on the amount of taxpayers' money when we talk about Parliament, I will stick to it so as not to mention the local level continuously. So the basic criterion is the number of representatives. Those who win more get out of the state budget more, those who win less get less. My opinion is that this basic criterion should extend from the start of the term of office to the end of the term of office. So, if the criteria are the number of MPs and MPs because I remind you that political party representatives get 10% more. So, if that's the basic criterion, then you need to stretch it at any moment of your term of office. So, if the number of representatives and representatives in a club is reduced, to some political party, my proposal is to reduce both the funds from the state budget and so on, so at the local level assigned to that party because it is taxpayers' money and I repeat, if it is the number of mandates, the number of representatives and MPs, then it must be valid at any time. So where it shrinks, it also needs to be reduced. My proposal is not that, or our proposal, it is not that these funds are then given to that representative or representatives who would be, who would leave both the party and the club or who would be kicked out of the party and the club, but that those funds would return to the state budget. At a time when we have a difficult situation like this, I think it would be logical and fair. So, back to the budget so let the Ministry of Finance schedule those funds where it's most urgent. Because if you take a single representative and MPs when we talk about Parliament each year to get a little less than 350,000 kuna, then for the whole term, of course you can figure out how much it is. These are assets that aren't insignificant. Each lipa and each kuna of the state budget is as big as a house and each of these lipa and each of these kunas must be used in the right way. So, I repeat, my proposal is not for representatives who leave or who are expelled from the parties in the follow-up of the mandate to be given that money, but to return to the state budget. I'm also warning you of a fact that supports this thesis. And pay particular attention to that, and I have not seen it before until I began to read more carefully the provisions of this law. For example, the representative elected to the Croatian Parliament as an independent representative or representative gets from the beginning of his term of office for 4 years, receives funding from the state budget, we all know how much it is, must naturally submit reports on the spending of that money, etc. If during the term of office, whenever, after the first 6 months, after a year, two, that representative or representative decides to enter a club or a party, become part of a party, a parliamentary party, the money he received at the beginning of the term of office, he will continue to receive the money for four years. So that money won't belong to the party she entered or entered, it belongs to him. So we have a imbalance in the law, the one that's been expelled or gone because he's unhappy with the party leadership policy, that doesn't get anything, the one that's gotten into some party and deepened the club, he's still getting his money, he's not obliged to give it to the party. So I hereby support the proposal to return the funds to the budget. It's only fair, it's not stimulating people to leave, it's not stimulating dissatisfied to leave the club, or to leave the party because if they leave and leave the party they won't get anything but the taxpayers will get something and that something of course will be much, much more useful to use. So, here's final, colleagues and colleagues, think about this proposal, and here on this proposal, here in the future, because we are awaiting a debate on the rebalancing of the state budget, I will propose a general reduction in the funds allocated to the parties as I did in 2010 when I led the party, when we gave up 10% in a difficult situation that was better than this one today when we gave up 10% and returned to the state budget. We could do so now because everything is changing and everything is shrinking, only funds for the financing of political parties stand and remain forever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68773	Thank you, too. We have a replica of Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68774	Yes, Mrs. Kosor no one happier than me if this bill of yours simply came to life, but unfortunately it won't pass. I'm in, but I know that unfortunately it won't work. We who are out of it, say, these party structures, we all finance everything, and we really have nothing. Those who are in power, which is confirmed by some recent cases from a week ago or I don't know how many, not only have employees, the budgets of local self-government, these finances are at the disposal of utility companies, you, Mrs. Kosor, have nothing. You spend a thousand euros a month so you can function. I've got nothing, Mrs. Holly has nothing and no one's asking to get one kuna, but that money goes nicely into the state budget. 350 thousand kuna times 4 or 5 is already some respectable money, but I know it won't be possible. Everyone has money from associations, from minority representatives, from parties, from minorities before we talked about it but independent representatives have absolutely nothing, no matter how independent they are except 15 thousand 200 or 300 kuna what our salary is. And finally, you've noticed exactly, the independent MPs when they decide to move to a club or conspiracy everything stays, so that's not fair. And there's something you should do about it, but unfortunately, you'll have my support, and unfortunately that won't be enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68775	Thank you. Mrs. Kosor's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68776	It will be enough for me personally if you vote for this law and we will look ahead, we will look positively, we will look to the future. It may dawn on that day when a consensus will be reached on this, as a consensus will now be reached on this, but in my opinion, the opposite and negative direction. But you noticed well, so we now have representatives in the Croatian Parliament of First and 10th Orders. So if you went to the polls as an independent, you'd have the resources to work normally, like this, you have nothing. But what we have today is also a good foundation for the parties, or leaders, who want to get rid of those who bother their parties to wrinkle them out, but their money stays up until the end of the term. And of course you should think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68777	Thank you. On behalf of the government, Minister Arsen Bauk. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68778	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You've well noticed, Mrs. Kosor, there will be some consensus between us and HDZ which is rarely happening between us and you, which has been happening so rarely lately, but well, that's another thing now. So, I understood this law that we seemed to have agreed before, and it was one of the conditions also in the negotiations, except for those provisions that were abolished by the Constitutional Court, so we will have to refer to the amendment of this Law on the financing of the Constitutional Court and fix a little bit of this violation and administrative sanctions that courts do not deal with local council members who receive a thousand kuna then we have to submit a report and then review 90% of the work to control the reports of independent council members in local self-government who may have a million kuna in total, and the parties still get a lot more or that we do not raise ourselves to the question whether one agent elected from an independent list is also a council member in the county council in the city council has to open three accounts or one. And how will he justify when he performs as city councilman when he performs as county councilman when he performs as a representative? So there are some illogicalities and we will soon try to correct these illogicalities by amending the law. As for the distribution of money on a regular basis and for campaign costs, I have another dilemma here, which is whether it's money for political parties or whether it's money for independents. I will openly say I believe that independent councilors and independent advocates should not be financed at all from the budget, that my position is probably minority even but I can express it. And I think that as much as we have reservations for political parties, even today, parties have to refer to certain actions of other party members, and yet there is one responsibility and collective responsibility and political responsibility not only for individuals but also for their parties, so I think that in this context they are still more organized organisations than they would be certain individuals who perform and, of course, that is what the law in general is about. As far as this proposal is concerned, we only have one dilemma, so you said that Mr Cain would have been elected as an independent representative and I say that Mr Cain would not have been an independent candidate so that we could discuss it. And since he was already elected to the coalition's common list then of course, I would, of course, like in the second part of that, in the second part he would. And look, I don't think you would. If he had come out as an independent candidate in 2011, he certainly wouldn't have gone through, so here's what we can do. Maybe now you would, but then you wouldn't. Here, let me fix up a little bit. Also, as regards the criteria under which the budget would allocate funds to political parties, we can talk about the total amount. They seem to me to be determined by the overall percentage of the budget of expenditure, and then, or that percentage can be reduced, so that the total will be reduced proportionally to all or the reduction of expenditure in the rebalance will also reduce the total base, and the expenditure for the political parties will be reduced again. But it is good that this part should be determined from the budget among other things and because, at local level, independent of the party colors of the executive authority and the majority of the councils, sometimes the financing of political parties is bypassed, where the law has been laid down and even a high penalty for mayors and mayors, if the head of finances do not pay off funds based on the composition of the councils at local level. And now let's finally go to the core. Therefore, the dilemma is whether the funds will be allocated on the basis of the results of the elections or the basis, will be corrected for the changes that take place between, after the elections in the term of office, yes. So it's a legitimate political dilemma that I think is more correct, which is that what the citizens have chosen in this formal or financial part is sanctioned all four years, and we can agree or disagree that eventually the transitions or changes in the party structure are therefore reflected in some political relations, whether the majority or minorities will change, whether certain relationships in working bodies will change, whether someone will form a new club is also politically legitimate and that this part remains the basis of the election result. In this dilemma, the Government of the Republic of Croatia remains on the condition that it remains, so firstly take the will of the citizens expressed in the elections and of course I absolutely agree that the entire HDZ club has been selected on lists where it was written as the holder of the list of your names. But it's theirs, let them live with it. I don't have a problem with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68779	Thank you. Damir Cain, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68780	And, Mr. Minister, you can speak for yourself. I think I'd go through then and now and before that. But okay, let's let it go now. I don't have any reservations to parties, though. That's how Croatia works, that's probably how the entire Western Europe works, and that's how we'll function in the future. But you know what the problem is? What you now conclude as well. Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, for example. Well, she was wearing lists, she was putting together lists, she was making lists. The HDZ members here in the front row asked her to come to those lists, thanked them for being on those lists, which provided them with the existence and so on. But what do we do? The power that the people would say to God simply does not beg. But today when someone is an independent advocate to understand each other, no one expects. So we know no one's getting any lip, no one's looking. But why wouldn't that go back to the state budget? And while you're careful, whatever we're working on, we're working with what we just have in our pocket. No one on the side has given anyone a single kuna. Are we even now? Aren't we? Some other time. I'm not going to say being a member of a representative club or this composition is not a privilege in this country. But I'll tell you one more time. Everything that we do and we have has to be set aside from our own incomes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68781	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68782	I thank you, Mr. Representative. So, I was absolutely saying when I said, I even pointed out that I think you wouldn't be, I guess. And as for these forecasts, the election results so far have mostly been guessed even though there is always the possibility of being wrong for the first time. If you'd be chosen now, I don't know, I haven't dealt with it in more detail. As for internal relations in political parties and how to draw up lists, there are different criteria, but they are prescribed by the statutes of political parties. Some parties claim to be more democratic than others, some argue that these others are not more democratic. Sometimes that democracy within the party has no correlation with a good result of the election, sometimes there is. Therefore, some political parties in the implementation of their programme are organising themselves to think it is best, and the court of citizens will be the one to say how many of them are going to win MPs and therefore budget funds when we are talking about the issue of funding. As for the status of independent MPs, I do not think that, or I think, the amount to be obtained, which is equal to the amount given to political parties that is inappropriately large for me. I told the speaker that I didn't think you should get anything out of that budget, from that part. So, one MP because the political party has certain obligations that it must make. It must have regular meetings of its bodies, must hold conventions, assemblies, conventions, as it is already called. He must, too, have certain constitutional obligations while independent individuals don't have it. I don't know. But these costs should be resolved in a different way, not from the regular financing of political parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68783	Thank you. Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68784	Dear Minister, you said there would probably be a consensus on this law. The issue of reaching consensus on this law is unquestionable because it is both a matter of reason and logic. Someone who entered this Assembly or the city council or some position on the party list means that he was also funded by the party's funds and it's perfectly natural that the funds remain foreigners. It is also natural for someone who has come out with his name and last name as an independent list to keep that part of the funds because he has invested himself in the elections. So it's unquestionable to me and just reaching consensus is a matter of reason and sound logic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68785	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68786	Thank you. So I can agree to 90% of what you said even though, of course, when I come into this consensus situation twice, I think about whether I'm right or not, so I figured this time I did. As far as the cost of election promotion is concerned, that is one thing, and I agree that those participating in the elections should receive compensation both independent and these parties. As far as regular funding for political activity is concerned, I don't think I'd say it myself right now and now and publicly, and I'm still standing behind it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68787	Thank you. Jadranka Kosor, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68788	Thank you very much. I mean, I can replicate it, and I can do it as a proposer, so, but I'm going to do it right. Mr. Secretary, you touched me and surprised me. So I'm reacting twice to your exposure. You surprised me by the fact that you said that Mr. Cain had gone as an independent wouldn't have passed at all. This is very unusual to me from this political aspect because it was your party who proposed Mr. Cain to be the mayor of Istria and you stood by him fiercely. So you believed that he didn't really stand a chance. That's not good. So it's absolutely not good. I think that if Mr. Cain had gone as an independent puck he would have gone because as much as he got votes for the mayor, he would have gotten so many votes, I suppose, as an independent one, he would have passed and he would have been a representative at the Croatian Parliament. And I was touched by the fact that here you are after this debate which has been decent all day about the Constitutional Law but still at times tensely received approval from some of the colleagues in the opposition who strongly opposed you. So, that's as nice as I said there's still going to be a nice consensus after all. However, your finding that you would not give independent representatives the funds is quite conflicting. It's the opposite of the Constitution. So I repeat, we have first and tenth-row representatives today because this is the law amongst others on promotion, on election promotion, so I assume that some of the MPs who are here today in such a position that they don't want anything just as much of an election promotion and they have a right to that, that's their constitutional right. But it certainly won't get any lip. And that's the imbalance I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68789	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68790	This first thing you said, I believe I will manage to deal with certain members of the Parliament agreeing with me in this matter, and most others disagree. I'll probably make it through that. And look, last week, I was criticised by most of these MPs and LGBT organizations over the same law. I mean, from different points of view, and here we come from the same point of view. But it doesn't matter. As for the prognosis for Agent Caine, I was saying, perhaps I wasn't precise enough, I believe that this was seen from context, about the 2011 parliamentary elections. So, if he had come out as an independent candidate and he was a member of the IDS until then and a representative, a representative of the club representatives and vice president of the party, and now that I'm not listing his entire history, we've had to hear several times that then he came out as an independent agent in moments when an objective change of government was expected I don't think he would have passed. But it's possible who knows. ... So am I entitled to my opinion? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I can express.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68791	Minister, you speak for the government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68792	Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68793	I am obliged to remind you, so speak on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia regarding the draft law which is on the agenda. Go on.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68794	Well, I, Mr. Vice President, didn't come out of the agenda, and if you think I should ask the Prime Minister what to say, then let him keep coming, and then he'll speak for the government of the Republic of Croatia. So, I'm going to say my opinion in the House as long as I can, and when I can't, then I won't be a member of the government anymore. Therefore, I ask that you do not restrict me in expressing your opinion on the subject. And in order not to further provoke the debate, I'm just going to say that the same constitution was in force until 2004 when independent representatives and councilors had no right to finance from the budget. And as for the financing of the promotion, then I have now declared that I am in favour of making up for the costs of the promotion. I am talking about the cost of political action of independent representatives who should not be at the same level as party members. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68795	Thank you, too. I just wanted to focus on the subject, on the law, not going out. And yet you can speak. And Boro Grubisic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68796	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I'm speaking from, say, the experience of our party in the elections for local self-government in 2007. Namely, from the state administration and all others, we received an interpretation that the man elected from the HDSSB list to the county assembly immediately after the election and before the establishment of the county assembly had left the HDSSB. So, the HDSSB didn't receive for him for four years and we won five terms, and we received a fee for only four. And that explains that before a representative body was established, he was released from the HDSSB. But he was in election on the HDSSB list. Now, how come you're the Minister of Management, is that a proper interpretation or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68797	Are you done?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68798	I did.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68799	Oh, thank you. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68800	Thank you. In 2007, I'm not sure it was a local self-government election, perhaps 2009. ... In 2005, there was no HDSSB. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So it seems to me that in the law that was passed in 2010, it still writes at the time of the constitution. This may need to be fixed to write at the time of the final election results, so when I announced the changes then we'll probably include it here's the assistant, so I think it will write it down and I think that if it was written like that and it was applied then exactly, and that it should but I think that it should be written at the moment the final election results are announced, and then there's a dilemma with the coalition lists and we in the Local Elections Act motivated the parties to sign coalition agreements before the election to know exactly who it is and who they didn't write it to now are in trouble with the replacements because they didn't agree who they're going to change or who's member, so here's hope that you're satisfied with the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68801	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Please, Mrs. Kosor, you have to come here as a proposal. Let's respect the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68802	I'll just get one sentence out of here. I didn't do anything on purpose, but I just wanted to thank the Minister of Administration who, if you noticed among the few and I can't really remember any example of the minister staying and making the government's views on the proposal of a representative and yet an opposition representative, and I really mean it, it's a good example, it's a good practice. If we continue to do so, it would really lead to this being a prominent and prominent Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68803	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club Davorin Mlakar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68804	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Now we're actually completely clear why we're the only club to come forward to discuss this issue. It's about the fact that everyone used the replicas to deal with these assessments, we talked about metaphysical categories that could go to the polls if they went as an independent representative, who wouldn't, and I think that, if we were having a debate about the law in the right direction, you could warn your colleagues that what they're talking about had nothing to do with this law. I'm sorry the government doesn't think Mr. Cain could make the election. We think completely different from them, and I'm not entirely sure whether the minister spoke for himself or for the government of the Republic of Croatia. However, it is that we have seen that this law has touched certain individual interests, so we have heard Mr Cain think about this law. We were preparing for this debate to point out something else, something that wasn't the subject of the debate, and it seems to us to be very important. Without intending to assess which of his colleagues would have succeeded in the election if he had been on the party lists, had been an independent candidate or had gone to other elections on his own rather than for the Croatian Parliament. We think that this law that de facto consists of one single article has an objection to the business character. The first is that the law itself does not have any indication in its text that if, eventually, such a law is passed and accepted when it should enter into force, it is in business, otherwise in these other arguments, what the Rules of Procedure requires of it. We have heard the essence several times already, the essence is that political parties that receive funds under current law for their work at a precise moment, which is indicated in Article 5(2), which is that they receive the means to work after the establishment of parliament or representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government that this rule should be applied because of those people who are no longer members of those parties who exercise their right to do so. And we can say that this is even a legitimate proposal because it really is a question of whether the party should receive funds according to the number of its members, although this number varies, can be more often in our practice, unfortunately it is shown that it is falling than it is growing. But that rule then or that medal has two sides. If that is the way to determine the funds from which political parties are financed, then other than the first reason that is already listed here in the debate, which is that these political parties and invested in those candidates on its lists, we need to know that this law is the result of the Croatian electoral system. If, therefore, the rule would be accepted that the parties should be subject to funding for those members who ceased to be their members after the constitution, then we would advocate that the obligation should also be imposed on those members to return the term of office to the parties on whose lists they were on when they moved to the elections because these are two inseparable things. The term of office of each representative in the Assembly and also in the Representative's body is not binding, he may give up his membership in a party and, regardless of the fact, he will retain a full term of office for that duration of 4 years or how much time he has left after his separation with the party. But then it cannot be unequivocally determined whether the party's representative won the election, won the term only thanks to his personal name and last name or to the fate of those from the party, the strength and political options and the political parties won the term. And that is why we think it would be neither justified nor legal, nor correct that those who lose their membership in a particular political party, and on its list have won a mandate in the representative body, that the party loses the right to use funds, at the same time that the person does not return to its party the mandate which it has won and thanks to it. It's the position of the HDZ Club. We will not engage in guesses who today would be or wouldn't be a member of the representative body if he were or wasn't on certain lists, but we believe that such a solution, perhaps not best, but correctly given the electoral system currently in place in the Republic of Croatia. That's why we don't think it's necessary to change the law in that part. If we were to discuss changes to the law, the Law on the financing of political parties and election promotions has parts in which it could be improved, especially given the experience of past elections where we know what obligations were made to political parties, and also to independent candidates to open accounts and to justify all the costs of election promotion, and that in that part, regardless of what the law was one of the laws that led us to the EU, so that the law in that part could be simplified, and regardless of perhaps simpler solutions, there would be sufficient certainty that there would be no, to say, malversion in the financing of political parties, although no matter how it was perfectly addressed by doubt or the danger of being manipulated by means of electoral promotion, we would hardly be resolved overnight and that the problem would remain perhaps longer than we would wish. Because of all this, we think that if this is a proposal to change the law that the law should not be changed for this reason. Individual cases we've heard, but we believe that they are indeed both at local and regional self-government levels so small that it can't be the basic reason for this law to change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68805	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68806	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Mlakar, I agree with your debate completely, and I don't think it's a good way to talk about this issue, and especially by the government's representatives, when he downplayed the value of one of our fellow MPs in a way that gave him his assessment and the court, given that he's been here for twenty years and certainly showed in the last election that he has the support of a certain number of people. Now, there's been a lot of other thoughts, and one of them is going to say that we, most of us here, came from a meadow. Someone spotted us in the meadow and we came here. I think there must be some political work behind each of us, a certain political engagement, that parties with their hierarchy have the right to evaluate and decide who they are who may or may not, who may or may not end up somewhere and that this is what should be the fundamental goal of everyone, and no, here is someone who is willing by someone here or by someone else's will isn't here. As a result, this law also appears in such a proposal at a time when an individual believes it should be different. Unfortunately, so far, there have been different thoughts about the same bill, but in different situations. I think that all of us should be a common goal of making the best decisions, not tailored to individuals, but to groups, most of them, Croatian society, etc., etc., and not to agree on the proposals of the law and then get names.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68807	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68808	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Boric, this is really not a unique case anymore. We already have more examples in the practice of this government when, because of certain interests, we have passed some of the laws to regulate the current situation, regardless of the fact that it may not have been the happiest solution. I am joining you in the assessment that it is unacceptable for the Government, regardless, if you want a peaceful performance of certain ministers to be put in a position to speculate that any of the parliamentary deputies would pass in any of the elections, regardless of the local, parliamentary, presidential or who knows, the European elections that are at our door. I think that this, as I would call it, is an easy way to discuss one of the essential laws, unfortunately the time of the afternoon has elapsed, so the parliamentary parties have not shown great interest, and they have been able to take this opportunity to say something about how political work should be properly financed and how it can be controlled. Instead, we took a debate on who would assess the value of each of the candidates in the possible elections and what his chances would be depending on which club he would eventually join. I don't think this way the Parliament should at all allow the government to treat him, but it's a cry as many times as we've tried to show that the government is constantly setting itself above the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68809	Thank you. And finally, on behalf of the motionary, Mrs. Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68810	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, obviously, this debate could spread in different directions, but it's good that we end up here. It's a very interesting topic of how you actually come to the Parliament, how you come to the lists. Well, of course, people with a name and a last name come, but you know who the last person is and you know who he is, and that's how he is today, and that's how he'll probably be in the next parliamentary election. So without the party chief's will, no one's on the list until now, at least I don't know about the case. So much for that. So I wasn't saying pro domo sua, and I wasn't talking about my case because if I opened that story then I could tell a novel there. It's not a story about my case, and the law doesn't talk about my case, the law talks about spending taxpayers' money. If the criterion for the party to receive money from the state budget is to earn and pay, then that criterion must be equal and valid from the start to the end of the term of office. At the end of the term of office, the term of office as I remember how it says in the Constitution is optional, so the term of office belongs to the representative or representative who was originally elected. And that mandate has no one's right to take it away from him. If that's the case, I'll come to my senses, speak my example. So despite everything that's happened, no one has been able to take or kidnap my mandate. Therefore, a representative as we know it, and the Constitution says, can vote what it wants, can speak what it wants, and no one can ever take it away from him. That's what this is about. So thank you very much for the debate, thank you very much for your participation, and here's my next step will be to reduce the total funding of political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68811	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68812	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the financing of political activities and election promotions, first reading, P.Z. No. 409. The debate on the proposal is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotion proposed by the Representatives of the Independent Representative of Jadranka Kosor and HGS for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the reports of the working bodies is not adopted. Please state who's for the proposed conclusion? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote is 110 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 2 abstentions have reached the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68813	We move on to: - Proposal for a law amending the Law on Obligations and Rights of State officials, first reading, P.Z. No. 356 Proposer – The Club of Representatives of Croatian Labour-Stranka Work. You've received the motion for an act in the boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. You received the reports at the session. The government delivered an opinion. On behalf of my colleague Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68814	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'll try to explain as soon as possible, although it's not that late, it's not for sleep yet. First, at the very beginning, why we have proposed this law or before, as it will call us after this, in fact, just a little bit more to support you are populists, you are demagogues, you are beating citizens, you are beating workers like we are beating our very good Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, you are courting. Remember the 2010 Labour Act, how they beat the workers and how they were courting them. We're talking the same thing in 2010. We're saying the same thing, we're talking today, and while I'm doing politics, I'm going to say the same thing. On the first day I tread my word, I will come out of politics, so should Mr. Milanovic. We have proposed this law, you have won the law, because we believe that state officials should be solidarity with the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I'll just repeat some indicators, facts that are very bad, not by statistics, but by life in the Republic of Croatia. Nearly 400 thousand unemployed 378 thousand unemployed, will soon be the number of 400 thousand unemployed. It's been said for six months, this government's been talking about sex, and for six years we've been listening to these rights, we're going to cut up the workers, we're going to take away everything they had from the Christmases, the children's gifts, there's nothing they haven't cut off the workers. We now pass the Labour Act, in fact most will bring it in which workers will be in an even worse position than they have ever been. We are introducing in some way a slave system in which workers will take up to 60 hours without knowing when they will work, under what conditions they will work, who will deal with them, especially with workers who work in companies with up to 20 employees. So the real sector cut everything he could cut. You know how poor the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are already 1/3, 1/3 connects the end with the end, 1/3 of citizens don't have enough money to ensure an existential minimum. We know what poverty is and we know it by European standards. So we didn't invent that information by the Labourists, but he's the fact that the eyes are closing and the ears are ticking. And what did the Labourists say all along the Milanovic government? Taxing the rich, we advocated progressive taxation we proposed amendments to the laws proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We're up for it, and we're up for bank taxation. However, we have always faced resistance or full ignoring of all our proposals. Most often when I talk to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, most of all with the citizens of Zagreb when they meet me on the streets is one of the most common remarks is you with big salaries, you in the Parliament that do nothing. Unfortunately, we are all in the same basket, so it would be time for us to start talking here in the Croatian Parliament, to do one, although one of the parliamentary deputies refused to say we will not deal with ourselves. We should be very concerned about ourselves, we should deal with ourselves, with our ratings, and if we meet the obligations put before us by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia or as a Parliament we are just a fig leaf. Most of them make up the government, most of them have a majority, a hand for all the laws except for the change in the Constitution. Therefore, the opposition, the marbles, no proposal by the opposition has ever been accepted until now unless there are some interpretations in the law. So it is time for us here in the Assembly to discuss the function of a parliamentary representative, the image of the Parliament, and to discuss the way they should behave, to treat their constituents, and that is not alone. It's a flossula that we only answer every four years or in elections if they're premature. We've got parliamentary agents to account for every day. That is why Croatian Labourers have proposed that since the real sector has given up everything it could give up, because in the real sector more than 80% of all work contracts are contracts for a certain time, because the government of the Republic of Croatia proposes a new model of employment, and that is the agency model of employment in which workers will really be goods and that is the cheapest possible goods. The government is doing everything to increase profits to capitalists. We believe that state officials are getting too much pay and that wages should be reduced by 21%. That's our proposal. It means not parliamentary representatives, but all state officials. How long? For so long, there's the government. When did she negotiate with civil service employees, she said how long? So long as GDP growth is not shown and the deficit in the state register is below the 3% limit. I think we must share fate with the people and others that we must comply with the success that we receive. Is the opposition guilty? No, but he's also responsible. The opposition is also in the legislative power. Here's so much to start with, and we'll get a chance later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68815	Thank you, too. We have two replicas, Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68816	Well, here it is, very simple. All payments, except for President Parliament's salary in this House, will come to the same level. No more club presidents and 20 percent more salary. No board president, 20% higher salary. No deputies, all the same. Now, that would be one fair approach, and then you can cut the representation salary another 10 or 15% as long as it takes until the GDP just increases.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68817	Branko Vuksic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68818	Dear Representative Cain, submit an amendment to this Act. You will be just as accepted as our law. I'm sure you didn't listen to me very well. We did not propose only for representatives of the Croatian Parliament. We need to find a common solution for all state officials. So, it's not about this law, we didn't propose for parliamentary deputies again.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68819	Miss twilight, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68820	Thank you very much. My colleague Vuksic, I don't know there's a Law on State officials and I don't know if you remember last year he was sent to the first reading in the procedure of a special Law on Assembly MPs. These state officials do not include parliamentary representatives at all, unfortunately because state officials are in a much more favourable position than we are parliamentary representatives. Because when government duties take office, they can sign some return to their jobs, and parliamentary deputies can't. And that first reading was withdrawn to me for vague reasons, really. And as for wages and real wages and real life, I believe that as far as anyone here thought we had, I don't know what kind of pay we live in real life, we live in the real world, and we're aware and we're really aware that people are hard to live. How many homeless people are there? How many pensioners are there? How many young people without a job? Well, finally, our kids who don't work or work far from their place of residence, we all want good, too. And we'll agree, indeed, with your proposal. But we would love to have the state officials and our parliamentary deputies finally open up 50 new jobs. Finally, here's to saying here's what we took from you, not to spend it on some useless means I don't know about new phones, new tires that have to be bought, but new cars too. I don't know any more housewives, tea kitchens than the Honorable Minister. I don't know any more Greeks as they call it. But to open 50 new jobs. [[Invader Batinić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68821	We have an answer, colleague Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68822	Dear fellow twilight here's a thank you for supporting the idea, we can discuss the idea in this as the beginning of an idea. And let's remember a number of errands. What you've told the citizens of the Republic of Croatia live under difficult conditions. Every day we see that families with small children are forced out of their first estates, driven from their apartments by old people. We can't be deaf to it, we can't be solidarity with those who are the hardest. Is our small wages going to make it better in the country? No, that's exactly what you said. If the government won't take moves, but this is just one act, we live with these citizens of the Republic of Croatia and we say here we will give up so much and so much of the work so long as it doesn't start to grow GDP until the debt in the budget is reduced, until the external debt is reduced. So, some gauges are set up. But deafening ourselves all the time and living under a glass bell and not being concerned with our citizens' problems is certainly impossible. And what you mentioned about the haughtiness of certain ministers in the government, tea kitchens, cars not only ministers but also mayor, mayor, mayor, that's another thing. We still live as though it were a political elite in Sweden, and citizens are in Croatia. I don't think the citizens of the Republic of Croatia deserve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68823	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Party Club Mladen Novak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68824	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, colleagues and colleagues, as well as in the previous law, I believe that no one has the illusion that this law of ours will be accepted no matter how high-qualityly argued and explained and we know why. A colleague started his discussion with the fact that we're going to get labels that we're all the same old labels that I have to admit for a long time we haven't heard, for a time they've been the same but not for a long time now. However, I must mention in Switzerland there was no long-standing referendum and at that referendum the citizens had the right to declare the issue of referenda was about whether to limit maximum salaries. Wherever I was moving in Croatia, I didn't hear from any citizens anywhere that he thought it was the pulsism of some there in Switzerland. Unfortunately, it is not our place to appreciate what is unfortunately with them, or fortunately, the referendum there has failed but citizens' comments have not been that populism. Unfortunately for us, this move that we are trying to come up with in some way, provoke the ruling majority, or those who have the opportunity to pass such a law on the sense of solidarity with citizens, I'm afraid for a long, long time, not only because it is now this team here and everyone else on the other side but for a long time, we will live in this Croatia without showing solidarity not only from this level but also from those urban, county and municipal levels. Well, we do, and now there's not a long example that, in my opinion, was exactly the same, dismaying that one of the mayors didn't see anything controversial about buying the most luxurious car.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68825	Comrade Novak, please, we're discussing your bill and we stick to the text of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68826	Thank you very much. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68827	On behalf of my colleague, twilight. A colleague, Vukšić, explained on behalf of the applicant. This is a debate on behalf of the club, I'm asking you to stick to the subject. How about a colleague, Novak? Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68828	Yeah, yeah, it's okay. Thank you very much. Well, I'll pick up where I left off, maybe I'm really a little off topic, but good isn't a problem at all. We had before these proposals on behalf of the Croatian Labour Party where we proposed the same kind of solidarity or more understanding by the ruling ones, so we proposed additional rates of taxation so-called. progressive taxation. There was no hearing. So we wanted to, we suggested the same thing as with this law of some more justice to say the Tax Administration is doing its job in a way to determine the relationship, the proportion between the assets and the incomes achieved and here we talk about revenues. However, there was no hearing of that part either. More than 70% of employees in Croatia unfortunately receive either average or less than average salary. Over 32% of Croatian citizens fall under the social threat category. Well, isn't that really enough data to show at least good will, and I believe that each of us and not just us, but all of these officials who are here are listed to be able to survive it more easily than these nearly 400 thousand people on the labour market? They won't find anything easier because of it, but if anything else, they'll at least get the impression that in this country, the government still has some sense of the weight of the lives of its citizens. I'll say it again, I'm not living in the illusions that such a thing can go away because we saw for ourselves what it looks like when there's a party discipline in any law, no matter what you can in the hallway hear a colleague from the same coalition thinking differently, that they bring out those attitudes that citizens are in the middle of where they live when Friday comes, when the time comes to raise their hand for such a law, or for the laws they propose, then it's known that party discipline is the only thing they decide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68829	Thank you, too. We have replicas, Branko Vuksic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68830	Dear colleague Novak, so I wouldn't be such a pessimist when I heard a colleague of Sumrak who said we'll support you, here if we have HDZ will probably Damir Cain support us, the independent will support us, the minorities will support us, perhaps even recruit a few SDPs who have a sense of measure and who wants to solidarity with the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. If they don't, I think they're in power for the last time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68831	Answer me, colleague Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68832	Thank you very much. So I'm going to repeat my colleague what I said earlier, party discipline, 81 hands the other day was enough and it doesn't really have to build illusions. Thank you very much for your support, I know we're going to get it, but hopefully, I can't guarantee it, I hope we get it just here, and I thank my colleague Cain who in some way even upgraded our proposal and I believe that the amendment will still complete it and that we can expect him to support this proposal on Friday, but I'm still skeptical of this development over the past two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68833	Here you go, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68834	Thank you very much. My colleague Novak, after this discussion of yours, doesn't know what you'd say because you're a little in Switzerland and a little bit here and then in Sweden and so on. The problem is because you're saying you're gonna get a populist label. This has to be earned, you've earned it, and it's made in a way that you're proposing such a bill in advance that it won't pass, it's populism then, you understand, because if it had to go through, you wouldn't be in the populists, and the problem is that there's too much and I remember it in 2010 and one of the proposals that came from the SDP Club at the time to cut the health contribution from 15% to 7% you understand, but now it's been reduced by 2%, so there's a breakdown in the health system, and then it's populism and it's legitimate for the opposition, but I keep saying, this country doesn't run from the opposition, and if the government is going to respect what it says, and we're already being announced that it's going to reduce all the debt pay then some of which is going to be done and no one can stand in the way, neither the HDZ nor the Labour and not depending on us. I don't know why we should carry such a burden. The government runs this country and no one against it can be. The problem is when we get into that sphere and what happens is that you're proposing something and who would be against it now, or not to make fun of you or turn out to be something else. And that's not the job of a parliamentary representative, and we're all going to raise our hands for this when it comes to voting, but the government said right now that's not an option. So what now? We all have a common problem and that's that we're still somewhere in the world flying at some height and everyone else is much better than us. For me, it's a greater injustice to say that the government spokeswoman has the same coefficient as we do, that the assistant minister has a coefficient as well as parliamentary representatives, etc. And nobody wants to say anything about it, but you cut 20% of everyone down with a knife like that, and that's that. I have little objections to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68835	Come in, colleague Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68836	Thank you very much. Comrade Boric, I must admit I am pleasantly surprised. First I'll correct you Sweden I didn't mention, probably a colleague, I was in Switzerland with my debate but it doesn't matter. I agree with most of what you've been saying, but the point is, even though we're in opposition, it's not our interest that the worse it is, the better it is. And we don't look forward to it if they're bad results because bad results apply to all of us and the consequences are felt by everyone. And I believe that in this assembly not now because there are only a few of us now, but when it's full, although it's hard for me to think of it, but even on Fridays it's not too much, that maybe even sometimes they have to do manipulation with it, but every proposal that's meant to improve something no matter where it comes from, I even remember the situation when the Law on the areas of special state care was about legalising or reducing the costs of exactly those settlements that were affected by the war. Well, that's when I said people all right. If the problem is that the proposal comes from the opposition, we will withdraw it, give it to you. But the way people are, so people aren't silly, people are on the ground aware that if they don't want the law to pass, if it's passed, it's their fault but there's no understanding, no you're immediately populists, you're like this, you're like this, I mean, it's sad that it's such an approach, it's sad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68837	Miss twilight, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68838	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, dear colleague Novak, I'll give you a similar replica, as well as a colleague who spoke on behalf of the promoter. I think the fact is that the opposition should be a government corridor, that's a fact and that the real government that has some vision and should have a vision and have the same illusion because sometimes from illusions is really born and reality is true, right? If there were no dreamers there might never be a Croatian state. But let's go back here to these salaries, see you got an appointment about your law, that's still good, seven hours, it's great, it could've been later. There's two, four, five, six, seven, eight of us, and there's no fight from the ruling. Well, of course, when people listen outside, they'll all support you and we'll back you up, and I repeat, we'll support if those funds that separate from all the officials go to the opening of a production facility, I don't know, a facility where at least 50 people will be employed, here's 50. 50 who would get their salary and work, and that would be fair and that would be realistic. Like this, you know what people say out there, it's easy for you to say it, it's easier to pay in Ferrari. To the Ferrari. They think we're solid. With people, here's the thing, it's easy for us to say it when it's perfect for us. And the past law that he was pointing out that we, as Parliamentarians, were getting there a month from their parties 10, 15 thousand kuna, and then living neatly through those months, that's not true. We simply receive only our salary, and all of us here who have a name and name, we have our own interests, we come from some jobs, we have our own political careers. Someone longer, someone shorter. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68839	Thank you. Come in, colleague Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68840	Thank you very much. Well, I agree, I agree with what you said about probably people saying it's easy for them to talk when they're good, have good salaries and are realistically said in relation to, unfortunately to the average or to the majority in Croatia, to the vast majority in Croatia, we can really say that we have good wages and that's exactly the way we're going. But if we're not going to suggest this, if we don't talk like this, then what are we sitting here for? Then we can be like them and only come on Fridays. I hear my opinion, or I don't even hear it, but I guarantee that the great majority has no idea what they're raising their hands for, is being followed by the chairman who raises his hand and that's it. Would that work with 50 jobs? Well, I hope that, I don't know, we didn't go in that reverse course of calculation if it were, would that produce 50, it doesn't matter anyway. But you know what, I have the impression that if we created anything else, the other day, colleague Baranovic of the ruling coalition mentioned why always pessimism? But here, that would be a great message, I believe that in part of the citizens would create some kind of dose of optimism, okay, something at least tried, showed that they heard us, that they felt, that it was really bad. That the people live badly. Because I get the impression when I listen to the Prime Minister that he really doesn't have touch points with how citizens live in this country where he represents. I don't know, and the best and best-quality proposals that went with the goal of keeping existing jobs here were rejected to show that the opposition was right after some time, yes, it's not worth it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68841	Thank you. Time, buddy. We're moving on to an individual debate, Zlatko Tušak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68842	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, here we are somewhere less than 10% of the total representatives in the Croatian Parliament. But, well, I hope there may be no strategic discipline on Friday, so all of a sudden, when voting this bill, he adopts himself, but he has to hope. Just as citizens who have given us confidence here in the Parliament that we have to pass certain laws, as they have given the trust and the ruling coalition to lead this country, but the results that are so far, they are only in a negative context in such a way that the number of employees has fallen, in a way that the craftsman is less in this country, and that means that the question of responsibility for these people should also be in a way that the receiving of government officials should have less until the moment until certain trends in this country change, until positive effects arise, and then we talk about some pay increases. Because at the 4th month of last year, Croatian Labourers sent a proposal to this law, that 21% of the salaries were cut to all state officials, primarily because at that time there was a blow to the citizens, there was a significant increase in costs and electricity and gas and water, but there was also a break-up of certain collective contracts that reduced salaries to civil servants, those working in the public sector, and then it was clear that within that, our position was that the state officials should also bear that part of the burden and responsibility to those citizens. There was a speech here that 380 thousand unemployed were at the Employment Service. I have to put the information here, say another piece of information that I came up with in 2013 to this number of unemployed people, somewhere around 97,000 at the Employment Office has been deleted from the employment records. So the actual number is much higher than these 380 thousand unemployed. They were deleted on a variety of grounds, not the ones who found a job or some 212,000 of them were employed on the record, about 18,000 of them retired, and these 97,000 were deleted because they might have lost hope and did not regularly apply to the Employment Service that was required before the Employment Intervention Act changed. My colleagues here before me said that around 30% of citizens live on the edge of poverty, but 20% of Croatian citizens are in poverty. That's the 20%.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68843	Comrade Tušak, please stick to the law we're discussing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68844	Mr. Vice President, if the law says what I'm talking about in the law, then I'm very law-abiding. And it's not my fault you didn't read the argument and the law, so you're correcting me. Next time read it, you probably won't be correcting me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68845	I haven't read the law for certain reasons, but I know it's not a topic. I've read the articles you're proposing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68846	That's the theme. Is that what the law says?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68847	Stick to the subject of the law, I've been keeping track for four minutes. You've been talking about the explanation for four minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68848	These are the reasons why we propose this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68849	Okay, it's okay, but I'm saying stick to the bill of no explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68850	You'll forgive me nicely, so you'll limit me to what I say and how I speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68851	We have to stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68852	So I'm telling you by the Rules of Procedure, I'm talking about the law and the reasons why Croatian Labourers sent such a bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68853	Comrade Tušak, once again stick to the amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68854	You can tell me a warning, you can tell me anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68855	Stick to the amendments to the law, please. What you're proposing is stick to the subject of the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68856	Let's stick to the subject that we've proposed this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68857	You talk for five minutes, you keep talking about the state of employees, the unemployed. You touched the law with one sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68858	Your law is a 21% reduction in the salary of all government officials.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68859	Hold on to that. That's what I've been telling you all along.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68860	You want me to tell you that one sentence for 10 minutes 21%... That's what I'm saying. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68861	Comrade Tušak, stick to the Rules of Procedure and I give you a reminder. Keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68862	Thank you very much. You can take away my word for as long as you want, but I stick to the law and stick to the subject of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68863	You've got a word to go on.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68864	There were only two options to change this law, one possibility that the Government of the Republic of Croatia would determine the basis for a base that would have a basis that multiplied by coefficients. Since the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not use its part of the mechanism to reduce the base there is another mechanism, which is that, in accordance with the law, the coefficients of all state officials are changed. And Croatian Labourists have therefore calculated that it is appropriate somewhere 21% to reduce the salaries of government officials and therefore we have proposed and therefore we believe that this is justified for all those citizens who are having difficulty living today and that we should be first with their example to show that we are solidarity with all those citizens in a difficult situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68865	Thank you, too. Here's how simple it is. On behalf of the promoter, colleague Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68866	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I think there's 12 of us left before someone went out again. I'll stick to the subject, only for a little while. I thank those who had the nerve to stay and listen to this and the other thing that we wanted with this law. With this law we wanted to send a message we know that it is difficult for you and symbolically we want to solidarity with you and we want to share fate with you. So we state officials know how the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are. I know that the Kukurik coalition doesn't have one. There's this anecdote of a union leader, I don't know who it was I think Mr. Ribic said, when Mr. Zoran Milanovic would crash on the road with a worker wouldn't recognize it as a worker. It's the Social Democratic Government. And what we're kind of pessimistic, you need to know that pessimists are well-informed optimists, we know well who we're dealing with, and that's what the chairman showed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68867	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68868	Proposal for a law amending the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, first reading, P.Z. No. 356. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion. The proposal for a law amending the Law on Obligations and Rights of State officials proposed by the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labour – Labour Party for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the reports of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament is not accepted. I'm asking you to state who's in favour of the proposed conclusion. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 84 votes in favour, 7 votes against and 24 abstentions have reached the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68869	We move to - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, first reading, P.Z. No. 355 Proposer Valter Boljunčić. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. You've received reports. Unfortunately, the promoter is not with us. Do the committees want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Independent Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68870	As we're on our way, Mr. Vice President, we'll be left alone with the two of us and Tanya Vrbat most likely and a few other MPs. But good. I don't know where to start, either, but what I'm trying to say. 1.1.2011., then HDZ's authority of the Trade Court's headquarters from Pazin is moving to Rijeka and should also be fair and acknowledge that HDZ's authority brought a commercial court several years earlier to Istria. Clearly to our insistence as many institutions as possible, we have spoken, and so I think today more legitimacy, more integrity, more subjectivity. Before that court we didn't have, I'm talking about the trade court in Pazin. I think it was an entirely logical decision. Why? Because the economic activity of Istria was mainly then one of the largest in the Republic of Croatia. Understandably, to understand that someone wouldn't accidentally impute me if I were against that the Trade Court would have no River. God forbid the river is gone, but I also want to tell Istria what is Istrian. And now this government simply makes it possible. What's going on is that 1.1.2011. Judges in Pazin, no matter what happens, reforming the system of commercial courts remains. The court has acted as it has acted so far, but now the president is in Rijeka. Now it's coming back again. Now the President of the Court will be in Pazin again. Even though no one in Istria was left without a job then, I think it had one message as well as a clear message and what is now suggested that under quotes the headquarters be returned to Pazin. Who insisted on reorganising the judiciary that year 2010? I said the law came into force at the end of that year and that the Commercial Court had lost its subjectivity under allegations 1.1.2011. That was the European Union. If it hadn't been for that time or for that, the EU would have insisted it wouldn't have happened. And what do we have going on today? Economic activity clearly falls, Croatia loses thousands of jobs per month. We have hundreds of thousands more employees in the upgrade today than in the 1990s. It costs 15 billion kunas, money is gone, the system should be reformed or the country as such will be badly implemented. The system needs to reform, health care and health care when it comes to health care and social welfare and education and public administration and pension and police and thus the judiciary. I am speaking with this bill once again for the third time in the court's seat that, with the draft law and the government's opinion, the court's seat is returning to Pazin. I think we're on our way, too, so we can agree with the Minister of Administration that the headquarters of the State Administration for Rijeka, Gospić, Istria will be in Pazin. I said the Trade Court is coming back. Tourist inspections, I'm sure they'll stay in Istria. And I personally insist that as many other institutions as possible remain in Istria, and as far as the county is concerned, it is simply unquestionable. But once again I will say the system should be reorganized. It won't work without obstacles, but where some economic activity simply happens, the institutions should simply serve as a function of development of an end. I think that part should also be watched by this trade court in Pazin and that I would no longer think the law is absolutely correct, but on the other hand, and the government's opinion will allow it to happen soon. It is clear that all of this has come or that all of these challenges that have had the opportunity to listen to each other in Istria over the past few months have been more for the purpose of one policy. Now Istria will lose its subjectivity, even though no one has ever said it, nor will it. But it should also be fair and admit that no change in government has occurred regardless of what economic circumstances would be incomparably more difficult. Because only last year, a billion and 300 million kunas were invested in Istria, a refund on capital investment, and in 2014, around a billion kunas of budget money will also be invested. And let me count that as 300 million dollars for water. The County of Istria doesn't even give June, 120 million kuna for roads. The county doesn't give a shit. 210 million for Ipsylon, 75% of 600 million kuna for the new General Hospital or this year 75% 200 million. 55% of the 273 million kuna for schools One ship, the rehabilitation of health care 200 million kuna, the DORH building is what we need most when it comes to Istria that as soon as possible and that system is functioning. [[Invader Batinić: Comrade Cain, we are talking about the court.]] Castillon 75% of the 60 million kuna. So, all in all, I think that this legal proposal is correct, and what I particularly enjoys, is the government's opinion that, because of one economic activity, Istria is under quotes, returning what is hers, and what we lost on 1.1.2011 when, besides me, no one was likely to be making a fuss against one of those procedures of the political set-up at the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68871	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Vervat Tanja, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68872	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Not to repeat the words of fellow Caine who was a little out of the picture. I could agree with most of what he said except for your findings, but since it is an individual debate, then I will say it as if this law, the bill of law is by no means correct given that my colleague Boluncic has proposed two draft laws. The next is the debate after this, and they fall into a classic set of election laws that went to local elections. Kola Boluncic speaks of his seriousness today when he is not present as a proposing at the session itself, when it comes to his proposal for the law. I also believe that the promoter is well aware of the work of the Government, of the work of the Minister of Justice and of the new reorganisation, of the comprehensive reorganisation of a network of Croatian courts that is under way and which will return the Trade Court to Pazin as we colleagues from Istria and in the past term and in this mandate have appealed that this is necessary for the sake of our economic operators and of all the statistical indicators that justify it. However, a fellow legislator of this law who is familiar with this law could certainly have withdrawn this bill. I personally find him unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68873	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68874	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, first reading, P.Z. No. 355. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: "First of all, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Areas and Seats of Courts proposed by MP Valter Boljunčić, all objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft of the law." Please raise your hand to plead. Who's to suggest a conclusion? Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 89 votes, and 21 votes, have been abstentioned and the proposed conclusion has been reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68875	We move to - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on districts, cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. The legislator is representative of Valter Boljunčić. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. You received the reports at the session. There's no proposer with us. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club of the independent Damir Cain. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68876	Mr. Vice-President, there are only seven of us left to agree with Mrs. Tanja so much about the seriousness of the promoter who is not present in this law on the amendment and addition of the Law on the areas of the county, towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia as no one from the IDS Club has when it is necessary to present the Law on Areas and Courts. I'd like to start and from this place to call the mayor of Istria County first because I know that otherwise a man is busy. Why? Because he's getting a new... I'm sorry, okay, let's get the dog 200 miles away from Buzet. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know, if you asked your father what he thought about it he'd say it's for Sparrow, but good. And I suggest that he first of all propose calling the Istra County Assembly and that the Istra County Assembly discuss it as soon as possible. In this direction goes the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Gentlemen, here is an opportunity for you to decide for yourselves at the Istra County Assembly whether to be the seat of the congregation in Pazin or to be in Pula. And now I'm going in kind of a row. In 1992, 60 thousand people, excuse 60 to 70,000 people signed petitions for headquarters in Pula. The IDS didn't collect signatures at the time but we supported it and collected it from the SDP I remember being that petition or I don't know how to say I signed it at the People's House in Buzet. In 1993, in those local elections when we won then probably an unrepeated result of over 70, in some environments up to 80% and when we had 35 councillors of 40 or 41, we decided to have the seat of the Istrian County Assembly in Pazin. We couldn't normally touch the seat because it was legally defined. Headship in Pula has been dislocated in a dozen departments in a way that in Pula 7 or I don't know them now exactly 8, Department of the Italian Community in Rijeka, Department of Tourism in Poreč, for culture before it was in Labin now seems to me in Novigrad, it doesn't matter now. And it worked that way or it didn't work. In the same way or similar way, the state administration was simply set up. Part of the office was located in the town of Pazin no matter what it quoted as the county headquarters, and most of the remaining in the city of Pula. Istria has a certain problem, the seat is not the biggest problem, although if you ask me personally and I will "opt" under quotes to express myself in the city of Pula. A far bigger problem than where Istria County's headquarters will be because we see that these things work or do not work is not that important problem, for example 12 thousand unemployed on today, Croatia has 380 thousand unemployed, I would say the number of employees in local self-government etc. It is clear that such proposals are shared by Istria, especially when it is done in pre-election times. On the other hand, it should be fair and admit that Pazin neither from the County of Istria certainly got anything, from the state anything small. When I say state, then I mean high school, which was still opened by the late Minister Vesna Jurkic. The church there built a college with its resources and now another sports hall is being built in Pazin. In Pazin as the seat of the Istra County Assembly, the self-rule de facto employs me with 8 women and 1 porter who also performs the function of the driver. All other nearly 200 employees are employed in the city of Pula, which is also not fair to the city of Pazin. That is why I call first of all the people responsible for the management of the county of Istria to convene the assembly in question as soon as possible so that the council can demonstrate itself on the issue. Here in this House, when I speak and mention the county councilors of Istria, for example Mr. Hrelja, Mrs. Tanja Vrbat, Mrs. Tyrelli, Furio Radin, I don't even know if anyone else. I would almost dare say that under quotes we have a small majority but clearly we cannot decide, that question is left to the County Assembly and let as soon as possible be called upon and let it simply decide on this opinion and then let the Parliament accept the decision of the county councillors. I repeat, once again, it's not the biggest problem of Istria where it's going to be based because it all works or doesn't work even 20 years as it's drawn. The problem is that 30 people are left out of work daily in Istria, 700-800 a month because so-called dozens of small companies are staying or shutting down in Istria, elsewhere in Croatia is even worse, everything is reserved for large-scale capital, the problem is the decline of gross social products, the problem is theft, the wealth of individuals, party employment but about it in other places and other occasions. It is irresponsible and I will once again say that the legislators of this law who feared the citizens of Istria with insolence, I don't know the current authorities that dropped Istria last year, brought back Istria a billion, 300 million kuna this year will certainly be over a billion kuna. I won't mention the hospital again, Kashtjun, water, roads I don't know these four schools, etc. The DORH building, which is here, I stress the priority over priorities, that they can finally start working to have a place to work, where to be, so I repeat Istra was afraid that way, and now that individuals have probably solved their status and when they find themselves on some lists all over the night, it becomes ideal and those who have been baptized as closets today have no alternative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68877	Thank you. It's a separate discussion of Verbat Tanja. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68878	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here I'm going to be just as brief as I'm saying it, there is no colleague who has proposed this bill that also falls into ordinary politics and pre-election of some kind of ossuary. As for some parties who probably have no more imagination in a political struggle. I remember exactly when this bill was proposed at the Croatian Parliament. That big controversy has developed in Istria, precisely between colleagues from the same parties, or Mayor Pazin, the mayor of Pula, and then this proposal has been forgotten so little. The government quite correctly told the county assembly to decide on behalf of the Istrian county's citizens that where it will be headquartered, the administrative headquarters of the Istrian County. Here's how my colleague Cain said, I'm personally a member of this assembly, we met a dozen times after the local elections, and no one thought to put it in the county assembly at all, except that my colleague Cain asked and I believe he'll ask at the next assembly, and so could I. However, at the meetings of the County Assembly we have also talked about so many times who loves Istria, who doesn't like Istria and I would dare say who is serious here and who is unserious, who is used even in the legislative procedure, something that is very serious, which is not to be played with and I characterise this bill as a simple political game and demeaning not only of the citizens but of Istria as such, I wanted to say it for the Istrian public because for some of us who are not in certain parties it's rather difficult to prove our historicism and not drill into the chest of our Empression but we are proud and we are struggling with legitimate means that we consider correct and so we will continue to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68879	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later. We'll be done for today. Tomorrow we will continue with the 2012 report on the work of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. Have a nice rest of the evening and then have a good night!
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-04-0.u68880	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on districts, towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z. No. 351. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: "First, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on County, City and Municipalitys in the Republic of Croatia, proposed by the respected representative Valter Bjemunčić. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." I'd like to make a statement on the proposed conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 86 votes, and 24 abstentions have reached the proposed conclusion. I ask my fellow MPs nicely when it's the vote not to do circles in the assembly because it really deconcentrates to lead the session at the vote, so they understand me. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, we continue the session at the plenary session. I already see one hand in the air, dear colleagues of Hope Turin.
