ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86456	Dear colleagues and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, we continue with the 14th session of the Croatian Assembly at the plenary session. I warmly welcome you. I welcome the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, respected Zoran Milanovic. According to what we announced on Friday, we will continue on the agenda. First I would like to inform you at the beginning, today we would like to work on 5 points of the agenda with the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the City of Zagreb. Tomorrow, on Thursday, we'd be working on agenda 6th, agenda 7th and agenda 9th, so we're waiting for the State's Attorney's Office's report to be carried out by the Croatian Parliament of Justice. On Friday, we'd be doing a bill on the rights of victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War, and we'd do a vote. Here we introduce a good practice. Now, according to the announcement, it is next: - Annual Report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia; In accordance with Article 128. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, once a year, represents the Annual Report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, at the beginning of the second regular session of the Parliament. The Prime Minister's speech may take up to 1 hour. No replica is allowed at the address of the Prime Minister. The government's Annual Report is under discussion, which can only be attended by representatives' clubs in the Croatian Parliament. A representative of the club can speak for 20 minutes. No replica is allowed in the debate. After the hearing has been held, the Prime Minister shall submit a final statement which may take a maximum of 20 minutes in accordance with Article 129. Rules of Procedure. I would like the Prime Minister of Honored Zoran Milanovic to present to the Croatian Parliament an annual report from the government. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86457	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs and MPs. When I began to think about how and how to open a speech about the state and work of the government in the past year, otherwise the second speech in the history of the Croatian Parliament, the novelty which, for the first time, the Prime Minister, for at least once a year stands before the Parliament and the specific figures and data tells us about the state in the country, we have never had this before, I immediately realized that I could only begin with unremembered floods that hit the County of Posavina in mid-May. This natural disaster has made thousands and thousands of our people unhappy but has mobilized and united state mechanisms and all of our citizens in helping those who have suddenly lost everything or without most of the things and the material and spiritual that they have built for decades. I am proud of the state's strength and the power of social solidarity that Croatia has shown over the past months. I am particularly emphasising solidarity, which is a value that we have to affirm and strengthen over and over again. Solidarity is the commitment of every society that wants to be decorated by humanity, modernity, and justice. Three people were killed, these three lives lost cannot be restored, it is the most painful result of the disaster that has affected the people of Gunja, Rajev Sela, Strošinac, Racinovac, Posavia Rats and Đurić. In the aforementioned places, 660 private houses and 16 public buildings are currently being renovated, owners are self-renovating 453 houses. Of that number in the first degree of damage are 232 houses. For the restoration of these houses, the owners are paid 40 thousand kuna in two meals. In the second degree of damage there are 221 houses, for which 70,000 kuna is paid in two meals as well. The state has paid 15 million kuna to the owners of the 453 houses so far. Owners or users of 187 houses have left the renovation to the state. It currently restores 105 houses. The flooded houses of the fourth degree of damage are being removed and replacement houses are being built instead. So far, the administrative procedure for raising 20 new houses has been completed and currently 6 of them are in the construction phase, which has begun. The estimate of direct damage from May's floods is 297m euros. The European Union Solidarity Fund is an acceptable and justifiable cost of 109m euros and the final amount of assistance that will, of course, be much less than this amount will be found out and will be established. From the same Fund we will also get help to repair the damage caused by freezing rain, which in January and February hit the strongest Gorski Kotar and left major material damages. The state's reaction has shown that Croatia is a strong and stable country. Croatia has shown that it is capable of caring for its citizens when they find it most difficult and when they are most exposed. We have shown this in the past days when rivers have threatened people and property in parts of Karlovac, Sisak-Moslavina, Koprivnica-križevci, Međimurje, Požeko-Slavonska and Osijek-Baranja County. I am truly proud of the efforts and ability of members of the Armed Forces and members of the fire department, employees of Croatian Waters and other public enterprises, civil protection, police, Croatian Mountain Rescue Services and the State Protection and Rescue Administration. Almost all ministries co-ordinated and timelyly involved in helping people from flooded areas. All in their district contributed to the rescue and care of people and property and to the return of life to underwater settlements. But all of this would have been insufficient and in vain if it had not been for the will, sacrifice, and self - burning of the local population of our people. Had it not been for the sacrificial and the brave men, the loss and the damage would have been incomparably greater and worse. There is no state that can replace the engagement of motivated citizens and social solidarity, nor would the existence of such a state make sense. Our state bodies have shown efficiency in fulfilling one of their most elemental functions, to do everything we can and as much as we can to protect life, existence, property and freedom of our citizens. It is the function of the state around which we must be as united as possible, regardless of political and secular differences. Together, we need to strengthen the institutions and mechanisms that will make our people's lives safer and more free. It is time to finally agree to see the state as a responsible guarantee of freedom, democratic achievements, individual rights, solidarity and equality. We must not allow public concerns about minority social groups to be questioned. It is our duty and our job to promote and defend the rights of the weaker and the few. We pride ourselves on the anti-fascist foundations of statehood and the highest values that have been defended in our Homeland War. These are all the foundations on which a society of satisfied people who live and express themselves according to their beliefs and with a free understanding of their own identity, with their fundamental human rights. Croatia is a better and more stable country than it is popular to say in Croatia today. Croatia is an equal member of the European Union and NATO, and these two memberships are a confirmation of democratic and partnership maturity, as well as a guarantee of Croatia's security. In this place, I would particularly like to point out that the role of the Armed Forces was extremely important, essential, in the fight against floods in Slavonia for days. More than 1,000 soldiers and soldiers, along with the technique, were engaged in flood defense. It was a manifestation of the functionality and professionality of our army. Our soldiers and soldiers, officers and officers, participate in some of the most demanding military missions and operations in the world. Our thoughts are with them who are involved in establishing peace and in the global fight against terrorism. Our soldiers on missions have nothing to do with their fellow Allied troops. We've never had a more educated and trained commanding staff at all levels of our army. Despite the economic crisis and financial poverty, we are determined to preserve the functionality of Croatian Air Force. We are confident that soon, in cooperation with allies and partners, we will be able to significantly strengthen and modernise the technical capacities of aviation, as well as the technical capabilities of the Croatian Navy. Croatia is equally co-determining in the society of the most developed countries in the world, but our ambitions have not exhausted by entering that society. The most strategically achieved by joining the community of the most advanced countries in the world is the opportunity to make full use of our potentials and realize ourselves. Our commitment to the interests of Croatia and all its people now has an incomparably greater chance of success. Our country today has more weight and importance on the global stage than it has ever had. Membership in the European Union and NATO is not and will not be an element of stifling our intention to lead an external policy devoid of political and civilizational prejudice, and yet in the interest of only us, our people. We are strengthening our influence on the creation of common European attitudes, especially when it comes to policy towards our region, that is, our eastern and JI neighbourhood. We have launched an initiative that defines a more proactive approach for Europe to Bosnia and Herzegovina. The approach envisions active cooperation between Member States with Bosnia and Herzegovina to adopt European criteria, keeping Bosnia and Herzegovina's membership in the Union realistic and tangible. We are not only motivated by the concern of the political and economic situation of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is of course our great interest, but also our high and great interest is a stable and secure environment. We believe it is also an interest of the entire European Union that will have to step more courageously towards Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Montenegro, Albania and Kosovo and Macedonia. This step is the geopolitical necessity and the most effective means of calming all kinds of interstate, interethnic and social tensions in this area that remain. We don't have the ambition to be so-called. to the regional leader or to anyone's tutor or sponsor. We want to be a role model in building a stable democratic state in which free and normal people live, if you can say so. We want to be a friend who can be trusted, which is what we proved during the recent floods that hit Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Dear MPs and MPs, Croatia today is building its economic prosperity on different foundations, I would say, more healthy foundations. I'm stressing the building because it's not a one-night job, one year or one election cycle. Raising a stable economy after a period when economic policy is based on deception and borrowing for unreasonable consumption requires patience and tenacity. Building such a national economy also requires rationality and full responsibility, but not the populism that has led us to the present situation which is complicated, but far from unembarkable. Population is a policy that sacrifices the future of a country for short-term, mostly partial interests. That's exactly what happened in Croatia, and I don't think we should let that happen to us ever again. For years, no one had seen or wanted to see the building of an economic tower of sand that had to be scattered in the wind and in the rain. In the past two, three years, however, there has been a barbarous public race in the spread of discouragement and hopelessness and in the announcement of the blackest scenarios. I'm telling you, there won't be any of them here. There's no producer for that movie. Don't take this by calling out for pity or calling for the spread of some false, unfounded optimism. However, this is an invitation to unite in the reality of our reality. The reality and rationality are in the politics of a subsidized monet, we need to raise more value. This is an invitation to maturely look at our present. mature of course means both critical and self-critical, but not destructive and demagogue to absurdity, sketches and spines. My government and I are constantly accused of not being brave enough to make radical reforms. We are not brave because we have not immediately fired tens of thousands of people from the administration and the public service. Then they would order us, all our problems disappeared as a hand taken away. I don't see courage like that. I will never agree that social insolence is called courage. It is not the courage to produce a human accident and enormously increase the number of unemployed with a rather vague blurry hope that this will quickly lead to GDP growth, which as we know it has been too long in a negative or stagnant zone. It is not the courage to break over the knee of complex problems, for such a understanding of courage is always broken over one's backs and not one's backs. Therefore, the issue of dynamic change is one of the key issues of economic policy that we are leading. The changes must be consistent and balanced with the opportunities and properties of our economy, as well as our society, our people, because the state is not a company. We've decided on a reform path that's longer. We expected it to trigger impatience and anxiety, but it is a risk that we have consciously and rationally taken. We're ready for even more harsh criticism, but criticism, not criticism and even more complex misunderstandings. But we can't and we won't give up on a path that leads to stable recovery and economic growth, maybe not like ten years ago, but it's growing. We won't give up on a longer journey, but it's longer because it avoids causing new social and private traumas and fractures. We will not give up on a path that leads to stable and solid growth, sustainable growth, and thus does not take back any further decomposition and further inequality among our citizens who have too much for our taste, perhaps less than in many countries of the world. But we live in Europe, not in Latin America. We prove that structural improvements and healings are feasible without reaching out for drastic measures and shocks, but change must be. In the first half of this year, Croatian exports reached 37 billion and 700 million kuna, which is 14.3% or 4 billion and 200 million kuna more than in the same period last year. The highest in the first term exported to EU countries is 24 billion and 200 million kuna or almost 20% more. Exports to CEFTA countries from which we emerged reached 7 billion and 400 million kuna, which is 11.7% more than in the same period last year, which is a good result and is essentially contrary to some expectations given the change in the status of us and them. For the first 7 months of this year, industrial production increased by 0.8% compared to last year, and in July this year industrial production strengthened by 1.4% compared to July last year. And it's especially important to recover the processing industry that we've targeted with hope to support. The industrial strategy has been presented these days, identifying key industrial activities that have the highest growth, development and employment capacity. Exactly, analytically, but always with a dose of risk, because you never know which way history will go, especially the future. These are production of basic pharmaceutical products and preparations, production of computers, electronic and optical products, production of finished metal products, computer programming, consulting and related activities, production of electrical equipment, machinery and devices, and production of food products and furniture. The targets are growth in industrial production at an average annual rate of 2.85%. The growth of new employees by more than 85,000 by the end of 2020 and the increase of exports by 30%. The latest figures show that at least an increase in exports as defined by such ambitions is not an unacceptable goal. During that period, the structure of exports in favour of the product of higher value added should also be changed. And we believe that these are real goals. Agricultural production is high on our list of priorities, but this production must be more modern and market-oriented. And now we're talking about a market of 5 hundred million people where some of our producers find their own space even without us knowing it. That might be the best way. But that doesn't mean we have to leave things to the case and the verse and say they'll sort themselves out and the invisible arm of the market will sort it out somehow. He wants something, and he's gonna mess it up. That's why we're here, the state. We support this agricultural production by putting into operation state agricultural land by a more logical system of subsidies, as well as large irrigation and commercial projects. In this, we will be even more active, and EU funds will be and are already a very important component of creating a competitive agriculture in which we need to say it openly, we are a European country, the employment perspective needs to see several percentages of our citizens as in those who live well in Germany, Austria. So half the nation can't work in agriculture, it doesn't work now. It's a small number, but it's productive and successful. This year, for direct payments in agriculture, for the first time from the European budget, we pulled more than 700 million kuna. We also introduced special support for young farmers. In addition, over the next seven years we will have more than 15 billion kunas of European money, so our money for the rural development programme. That money is ours to get him out. Through the pre-accession programme for rural development IPARD 262 projects with 395 million kuna have been supported so far. That's what the majority has been paid out of in the last two years. In August of this year, compared to August last year, the number of unemployed was lower by nearly 24 thousand and 7.6%, respectively. Among those no longer seen as unemployed are a large number of new employees. In the past few months, the number of young people under 25 has been reduced by 7%. Once again, I stress these are young people who are neither school nor work, nor are in training. So those who are in that age category and on the labour market are looking for a job. Currently, more than 40,000 of our people are covered by state-run active employment policies. The number of unemployed is now below 290,000. Despite the shifts and improvements, this is essentially our biggest and most important problem. The only bigger problem than him is too few total employees. The increase in the number of employees is the goal of which directly or indirectly weighs all the measures and all the actions we take. So, not the number of people in the stock market, but the number of people in the age class from 15 to 65 who work. And that's how Germany and even the United States differ. In Germany, the highest percentage of people do, do something and receive some kind of pay. It is the key to our stable economic development, but also to a more normal and happy society. Through the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts, Croatian agencies for small economy, innovation and investment and HBOR we systematically encourage small and medium entrepreneurship. In our vision of the national economy, this segment of the economy is one of the most important. We will strengthen our support for entrepreneurial creativity and innovation because they give rise to competitiveness and the possibility of going to other markets. In this, EU funds will be and are a strong support. This year, 28 of our entrepreneurs became the first beneficiaries of structural funds. These projects total 641 million kuna, and 250 million kunas will come from the EU. This will open 650 new jobs by July 2016. These are the beginnings, but the beginnings of a new system. By the end of the year, several more competitions from structural and investment funds are expected to be announced and are worth nearly 3 billion kuna. Croatian highways and Croatian roads completed projects worth more than 4 billion and 500 million kuna. That's over 100 kilometers of highways and roads. The construction of Luke Gazenica, in which more than a billion kuna was invested, is completed, and external bonds are being built in the City of Split, which is an investment of 150 million kuna. A new International Airport of Zagreb passenger terminal is built according to the concession model. The modernisation of the Croatian Railways and the new vessels of Jadrolinija this year is being invested close to 500 million kuna. Thanks to EU funds, reconstruction of railway lines has been launched, something that has been waiting for decades. Thanks to these funds, the value of these works will be several billion kunas. By 2023, we will invest 4 billion and 500 million euros in water-communal infrastructure, and we will rely largely on European funds. Otherwise, we strive to finance all large-scale infrastructure investments mostly with these funds. The entire administration has maximum strength in capacities and adopted knowledge of the withdrawal of funds from European funds, while the road connection of the Croatian south with what is often incorrectly said to the rest of Croatia, and Croatia has no remainder, is a good example of such orientation. With patient and discreet work, we have come to the conclusion that the Pelješki bridge from the perspective of European co-financing has become the most obvious option of road merger of two parts of Croatia. So this is about road connection. A feasibility study is under way, and in the following year the project of the Pelješko Bridge will be ready to apply for money and to start realisation. It's closer today, but it's actually closer than ever. We're not going to open construction sites without insurance funds. Those times are over. Since the application of the Investment Encouragement Act and the improvement of the investment environment, 80 applications have been received for the use of multiple stimulating measures of 47 of which in the last year. The estimated value of these projects is greater than 3 billion and 500 million kuna. Over the past nine months, 47 applications have arrived for the category of strategic investment project. Of that, 23 public and 24 private projects are. We need to simplify the procedures for gaining strategic investment status further, which also brings tax benefits and speeds up the achievement of investments. The conditions for Croatia to become the energy hub of the wider region and Central and Eastern Europe were created. We are getting closer to the start of the realisation of large energy projects, the third block Te Plomin according to the highest ecological standards that are good for both Germany and Austria, the Kosinj hydroenergy system and LNG terminal on the island of Krk, which is a longer and harder process and will not go overnight. It's the first time that's been seriously done. That wasn't the case before. The total value of these projects for which we are looking for strategic partners and investors is around 2 billion euros. These projects, with the inclusion of the Adriatic-Ionian gas pipeline project, will provide Croatia with even more stability in supply and cheaper energy for citizens and industry, which is an additional incentive to industrial development and employment. We have launched research that is a prerequisite for the possible discovery and exploitation of oil and gas in the Adriatic and the Croatian mainland. It's what our neighbors do, our neighbors at sea, and we can't be the exception, it's just like that. No matter what there is reasonable caution to such research from an ecological point of view, I share it. We've launched billion-and-a-half kuna energy efficiency projects. With 160 million kuna of extra budget funds, we provide citizens with subsidies from 50 to 80% of the investment in the energy recovery of family homes. There, local self-government was involved or not involved at all as some cities in Croatia. Ladies and gentlemen, our economic recovery and growth are therefore based on new employment, production, export-oriented production, and the establishment of more logical and more stimulating tax rules to relieve work and strengthen personal consumption. It's a structural and mental twist that's starting to produce some kind of result. The GDP growth that will thus be achieved will be stable and continuous, sustainable, not based on cyclical growth and decay because it will not be based on irresponsible and short-sighted government and personal borrowing policies. It simply had to come to an end because, I repeat, it was a model that produces one-time effects and is largely artificial. We're introducing a tax of very moderate 12% on interest income. That means that whoever has 500 thousand kuna savings, and that's very few people at 3% interest he gets from the bank, will pay about 1800 pounds of taxes a year. We believe that this is just and necessary, and this confirms the experiences of virtually all other countries with which we can compare. We introduce clearer and stricter criteria to exempt from paying taxes on reinvested profits, we will tax-stimulate only those entrepreneurs who really invest in the expansion of production, in the creation of new jobs and in raising labour standards, and not in strengthening the cash stock of the company. It's something that's been going on so far, it needs to be changed. We raise the maximum tax rate per salary. So far, this 40% rate is highest in this part of Europe, when I say in this part of Europe, I think of the former countries, the countries of new democracy including Croatia, so countries that are up to the '90s. For years, they had a different social arrangement and this rate was applied on a basis greater than 8800 kuna. The scope will now amount to 13,200 kuna, except for state officials who will be exempt by a short period of time. I'm stressing it one more time because I've seen since day one try to manipulate it, so to the state officials, we've told 10 times, and we're going to repeat another 100 times, it's not going to raise wages. We're increasing the amount of personal deduction from 2200 to 2600 kuna, which means that the minimum gross salary of 3017 kuna will be practically non-taxable. With these tax corrections, the majority of employees will thus remain at the annual level from several hundred to several thousand kunas higher. We believe that this will also boost the growth of personal consumption as a very important component not only of our own, but of everyone's GDP in Europe. We need to establish a tax system that will allow the average wealthy and those who live richly from capital, from rent and other forms of rent to participate more significantly in achieving the concept of social solidarity. Without it, we can hardly think about even stronger tax relief. When it comes to the entry of craftsmen and small entrepreneurs into the VAT system, we raise the threshold from 2 to 3 million kuna of total annual revenues. There's been a lot of talk about it for years, and we've spent it. In addition, for this entrepreneurial category that includes more than 100,000 people, we introduce VAT payments per paid job, per realisation. So far, these VAT people have had to pay on a issued account, which has brought them into constant liquidity difficulties, and this will seriously facilitate the business and life of these people. Of course, this is no genius innovation, this is a decision to remove the priority of a country that has so far been the first priority in favour of these people's priorities. It's a political decision. We believe he'll deliver the results. We establish criteria and talk to banks, telecommunications operators and utility companies about the forgiveness of debts to citizens who, for many years, are in debt relatively small amounts that they can't really repay without falling apart. For years, this kind of debt has kept many of our people in a state of economic paralysis, blockades, conditions that are objectively impossible to overcome without state intervention, and the state is obliged to help citizens in such a situation because free market mechanisms cannot solve this kind of individual financial distress and many others. We do not need Croatia in which statistics will show numbers that will applaud the world rating agencies, investment agencies. The European Commission, with all due respect, or international financial institutions while our people will be poorer and live harder. It is not necessary to list countries where economic growth rates are impressive, and large parts of the population live in total human existential misery. Such growth concepts are not that we don't need them, but we can no longer achieve them because we are a high-income country and we have to look and find, I believe, new growth models and we don't need advice, I repeat that, that we should manage the state as a company based on some manual because the legitimate goal of each company is profit. That's what shareholders are looking for, and the purpose of the state we're building is to defend it by jeopardizing the rights and interests of people living off their honest work. Within the general concept of protection of workers' rights and interests, on the other hand, there must be a space of flexibility, i.e. a space to adapt to economic circumstances which, as we know, are variable, volatile and depend on a number of complex factors that we very often have no influence on, do not have it greater than we do, much greater. The fight for labour rights, from the perspective of government, political parties or from the perspective of the union, should not become a purpose to itself, but to the means. This struggle should be a function of general progress and better life as many people as possible, not political trade, bribery and defence of particular interests. That fight must be concrete and everyday. Our government has introduced criminal provisions for non-payment of salaries to workers. Nevertheless, still 30,000 people do not receive wages for their work which is incomparably much less than when we took over power, but still much. With the idea of general progress and employment as many of our people as possible, we have changed the Labour Act despite numerous resistances. We did not change the Labour Act to make it easier for people to lose their jobs, but to make it easier for people to work and find jobs, and that is the only motive for the changes we have made to that law, but some simply refuse to see that simple logic. Some people prefer to believe conspiracy theories than common sense. At no time has there been a threat of payout or the amount of working pensions, not going to be. It is not or will be threatened to pay the salary from the state budget. We protect and protect all sustainable rights, and they were and there will be great Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War, we repeat this, but it is even more important that we stick to it and stick to it. There is no question about the level of social rights of the most exposed categories of our citizens. We successfully reformed the social benefits system, and thanks to better supervision through a single database, we suspended payments for 15% of recent users. This money has been channelled into a sensitive increase in social benefits for singles and independent parents most threatened by poverty, not only in Croatia but also in the United States. Ladies and gentlemen, I mentioned just before defending particular interests, precisely the defence of such interests along with the inability to understand the complexity of the Croatian economic problem and with a kind of competition in showing irrational intolerance has become the dominant discourse of our political and public life. We're surrounded by a noise where, on a daily basis, they're used with heavy words and terrible accusations. First of all, I think of the charges that are easily brought to the expense of government employees and public services and public enterprises. We are aware that the state and public sectors must be more efficient in rationality, but this is not achieved by fire, sword and curse as some work and suggest rather than by persistent and targeted reforms that do not last a week. The aim of the reforms we implement and the removal of obstacles to the functioning and reduction of the costs of state administration and public services. Despite all our considerations and despite taking care of the pace and balance and in doing so we face tough resistances. But the resistance won't distract us from the direction we're convinced is in the interest of the vast majority of people without the minority being trampled. All or almost all citizens who receive salaries from the state budget are covered by the central wage accounting system, only today. Technologically, that was possible 10 years ago. Not today. That's what this government, my government, did. We have developed still developing this software instrument that must bring savings through the prevention of abuse and all illegal payouts, not criminal but conflicting rules. It is also an instrument for more efficient and logical management of huge government expenditures for salaries, as well as for more rational management of people who receive income from the state budget who also pay for those who do not work in public administration and businesses. We've united the public procurement system, which so far has resulted in about 450 million kuna savings in health care alone, rationalizing the network of judicial institutions. We reduce the number of judicial bodies from 208 to 116 after a long, persistent and boring public debate. We are introducing a division into 15 judicial areas by establishing 15 county courts and 15 county state courts, 24 municipal and 22 criminal courts and 22 municipal state attorneys. It will bring significant savings, first of all to the citizens. We continue to inform the judiciary in order to make it more efficient, more transparent and accessible to citizens. Our judiciary has problems, but let's be realistic about it, so what the government can do is limit, what it can't point to and appeal to change. Croatia has not had a judiciary since yesterday, it has been there for decades. We launched an e-Citizens project that enables communication with the public sector in one place on the Internet through a portal that combines information about government work and all ministries, also a novelty that, with little goodwill and engagements, was possible 10 years ago or at least six years ago. Citizens are also allowed to see the data entered in the birth certificate, the queen of married people and the book of citizens as well as the publication of e-records of the birth certificate, the marriage certificate and the domicile. So far, more than 70,000 citizens have been involved in this system. The integration of national queens, citizens' books and voters' registers has been completed. Since the start of the mandate, we have been carrying out rationalisation on the business of state and public enterprises. And today I will list only some Croatian post office, Croatian electricity, Croatian forests, companies that are better suited to their public function, achieve higher incomes and less spending. Of the 23 public companies in the first 6 months of this year, 17 of them made a profit, worth billions and 600 million kuna, honestly the highest HEP, while 6 companies achieved a total loss of 140 million kuna. When it comes to winning, that's a better result for 518 million kuna than for the first half of last year. We are continuing intensively with legalization and fiscalization procedures. The effects of fiscalisation are clearly seen in a drastic, drastic increase in registered incomes in catering and in some other crafts and independent professions. As far as the Institute of Pre-Agreements is concerned, more than 7,000 companies that employ more than 55,000 workers have decided to do so. Companies for which the court has confirmed a pre-demand settlement or the creditors have accepted a settlement plan employ nearly 30,000 workers. We are creating a state of order and respect for the law regardless of the name and name, social and material status, belonging to a political and interest group regardless of origin and beliefs. We insist on the orderly collection of taxes and all other obligations to the state budget, but not in a way that sows terror and fear of the state. We are developing modern and effective mechanisms that will be strict and precise but also partnered towards anyone who contributes, who participates. However, long-term stable public finances are well founded in the conduct of the order. The stability of public finances with constant reform work in public service systems, as well as the improvement in the use of EU funds when it comes to strategic infrastructure procedures, is a major prerequisite for an even stronger momentum in the economy and society. In doing so, I think of giving a swing primarily through tax relief, additional promotion of production, and medium and small entrepreneurship, as well as through stronger incentives for investment and new employment. The European excessive deficit procedure that Croatia is going through and many members of the European Union have gone through, most of which are nothing but a transparent and controlled process of establishing stable and sustainable public finances in a segment that can be directly affected by the state. This is a segment of budgetary expenditure, which is a segment of cost rationalisation and savings on items where the state has been unnecessarily and illogically throwing itself away for years. But it is clear that saving and cutting expenditure will not lead to the consolidation of public finances unless there is economic growth. They're wrong to think that the excessive deficit procedure is some kind of polygon for ultimatums and blackmail. It is a constructive and dynamic mechanism in which deadlines and bureaucratic imperatives are not and cannot and will not be above the interests of citizens and common sense. My government is responsible above all, and above all, for citizens who have given it confidence, only then come everyone else, including international creditors, to whom we meet our obligations in orderly. And usually for the first time in its history, or the second time, but for the first time in 2013. Croatia has a balance of payments surplus or current account. This means that we simply but correctly say, so we have expenditures that are not greater than income as a state. What does that mean? At this point, it means stagnation. But when we look at the European crisis that has come, it has hit hard, it has gone a little further, because of the rigid austerity and denial measures again, it has returned, again, the countries that have found themselves in the biggest problem in line without exception are not countries that had the biggest budget deficits, not countries that had the biggest public debt, some have not, but have all of the states that have had a particularly negative balance of payments and huge balance of payments deficits in Spain, Italy, Greece. Those who did not have but had surpluses from Germany, the Netherlands, the Scandinavian states that are not in the euro zone, Belgium, these are the countries that are least affected by the crisis. When we look at the causes of the crisis, i.e. stagnation after the crisis, it's empirically negative balance payments first and foremost. Croatia has never had a particularly negative balance of payments. Last time she exceeded 10% of GDP in '99. A year. After that, it belongs to no matter who is in power amongst the lower ones in Europe. 2007 Croatia and Poland had the lowest balance of payments deficits in Eastern Europe and Central Europe. The reason for tourism. This is what Croatia still holds above the surface today. So our revenues in 2013, the total revenues of the country's accounts, regardless of stagnation, regardless of stagnation, are finally balanced, we have a small surplus. These are numbers to look at, not to believe blindly but look at the few who are in trouble and you will see that the rule is very clear and who has fallen into the biggest problems. Italy had no major budget deficits, it had a very balanced fiscous but a huge balance of payments deficit and a huge public debt. We've got to take care of these things. They're a little bit of talk. And when I emphasize it, I'm doing a little dyspression. This information is simply Croatian speciality, so it is not the result of the good or bad work of the previous government as well as of this government. Our tourism through balance-sheet services makes life easier. That's what other comparables don't have to do with us. We must work on this because it is a further source and money and stability and security for us. And this second thing we're building, it's gonna take at least 10 years. So higher competitiveness, higher exports, because it's been neglected for years. The educational process at all levels must be available to everyone and the task is to make it the most easier for those who are the weakest. In addition to co-financed inter-urban transportation of state students this year has provided 44 million kunas for assistants in schools for children with disabilities, a very painful and sensitive topic that has recently been tried not to say political profit but to accuse the government, I say incorrectly because this year we took on practically all responsibility for it for the first time. And the amounts that stand out are significantly bigger than last year. What some units of local self-government did and the county finds ourselves. The system of education and science we create will be more modern and competitive and the purpose is to raise and educate freely thinking and competent people who will meet their internal needs, human needs, their human curiosity and ensure existence in today's and tomorrow's world, be Croatian citizens and ultimately pay taxes. With regard to the rationalisation of the health system, we will soon have the final plan to merge and strengthen the daily hospitals with the aim of increasing the efficiency, availability and quality of providing health care to patients, the quality in which to know where in small Croatia, well-connected Croatia can get the best service, where life can be saved and time is not lost where it should not be done. This, together with united public procurement, is a major step towards further reducing the loss of the health system. It's expensive, it's expensive everywhere, it's never gonna be cheap, it can't be too expensive. The reduction of health losses directly depends on the dynamics of the introduction of public finances into more peaceful waters because, with pensions, healthcare is the highest cost and will remain a great cost. And pensions will remain a great cost because society is getting old. One of the mechanisms in which the consolidation of public finances is touched and permeated by fostering economic recovery and healthy growth has been the privatisation and concession of parts of state property that have been completely unused for decades. We are obliged to dispose of our assets and all resources in favour of strengthening the national economy, greater employment and production. We have entered a further phase of the process of monetizing our highways, which are financed by loans to the greatest extent, enormously and through certain contributions through the price of liters of fuel. The past government, in its economic recovery programme supported by the then parliamentary majority, had the plan ahead of it. We started working on it, specifically. So there's a great interest in the world's consortium to get into this business because at this point, big money can come cheaper than we do. What are we willing to apply in this process and what are we to agree on, and what clear rules are we ready to set? So these roads remain ours, will be ours, remain in the same place, will not go anywhere, and the management of these highways will be entrusted by a model that already exists in one part of Croatia and no one notices that it exists, at 30 or 40 years of age, to whoever offers us the best conditions. Of course, as the profitability of these roads gets higher, it won't be tomorrow, but it will be over the years, and that's how relationships change. It is our interest to immediately receive money to pay off the unfavourable or expensive loans that have been taken to build a section of the highway. This will reduce Croatia's public debt, an important thing. It does not divide and dissipate around but reduce Croatian public debt and ease the pressure on state finances. So we're not selling out anything, we're never selling out, but we're putting state property into operation of general interest, development and public debt reduction. I don't see who well-intentioned after five minutes of conversation can be against it, except for those from the first minute of speech, the populist. In the tourism sector, we note the great interest of strong companies to invest in a long time ago, for example. A completely abandoned and fate-delivered complex of Coopers. It is about investing up to 300m euros. Close to Kupar, it is an investment at the Dubrovnik airport of 200m euros. If we add to this the Pelješki bridge which is not far from realisation for the first time, we will reach the amount of almost a billion euros in real investment in only one county. That's the difference. We are looking for investors in tourist facilities in Brijuni, which have also been neglected for years and years, in fact, devastated, and we are also analysing the possibility of privatising the state's share of major tourism enterprises in Rab and Dubrovnik area, not to give it to someone under the grain but to work there even more people than today, to sell rooms even more expensive than today and to make it better for everyone. It's good now, but weak as it might be. It is the only motive and the entire Croatian public when it comes to ACI can watch. There's nothing under the table, there's nothing on secret lunches. With tax relief and a more modern, flexible approach, we have opened the door to restructure the tourism industry in the direction of raising quality and expanding the beauty of content, which is a prerequisite for increasing income in, I do not like these terms, pre-seasons and post-seasons at all. There's a job, there's a relationship, there's a professionalism, and then the season can last all year, of course not with the same intensity. Preseason and post-season. This is the last time I actually use words like that. The first results are already visible, despite the bad weather this summer, very bad. Two important state-owned companies, Croatiu Airlines and ACI already mentioned, are preparing to attract strategic partners to enter healthy capital and allow the long-term development and progress of these companies. For strategic reasons, the state would maintain an important role in both companies, a control role. Meanwhile, we have rationalised the business of Croatia Airlines, so the company no longer makes losses as measured in hundreds of millions of kunas as well as even small profits. I'll remind you that in our environment, the company is failing, that several states are either out of company, so without a national flag bearer or Lufthansa bought them for 1 euro, here we are still holding. We take care of environmental and space protection and the promotion of sustainable development. In this respect, we are looking for a good measure in relations between the country's degree of economic development, investment in environmental protection, which is not cheap but also needs legal regulation in this sensitive area. Environmental and space protection cannot be isolated from economic and social realities and from efforts to ensure a richer life for the largest number of citizens with a healthy life. In the last year we've done, I'd say significant steps in environmental protection. We have launched projects worth more than 5 billion kuna and provided 70% of European resources for them. It costs and that money is present in Europe, you should take it. Nearly 80% of citizens living in 396 cities and municipalities currently have access to some form of waste classification. It's a big change. When I was in '99. on 2000 we return from Brussels to Zagreb there was still no trash can in different colors. That was only 14 years ago. A visible step was made throughout Croatia at that time, throughout Croatia. It's a big jump from 2012 when there was only 45% of our people. In my government's mandate, funds have been provided to co-finance waste separation projects worth more than $400 million. Dear MPs and MPs, when I asked from this same place 30 months ago for you to trust my government, among other things, I said that one of our main goals is that in this country, in our country, they sleep peacefully and not only sleep but also work and breathe, all those who have not sinned about the law. That mayors, mayors and opposition officers are not afraid of politically motivated police persecution if they know they were working under the law. I asked you then to remember my words because it is an attitude that makes us deeply different from some before us. I repeated these same words last year in a speech on the state of the government and the work of the government. And today from the same place I ask you to see that difference and not underestimate it. As you have seen in our current mandate, states and societies can develop successful anti-corruption mechanisms and beyond daily political motives and pressures because the state must be a second name for trust between citizens and authorities who have freely chosen it. This trust is built and maintained by the public and transparency of political decision-making, professionalism, accountability and competence. We have opened the judiciary completely to create and develop a reputation amongst citizens without any desire to pollemise with anyone. I just have to point out that reputation can be hard to gain by holding onto a dogma about its own infallibility and political agitation. Respect must be earned. You respect your father and mother or mother and father, and everyone else has to earn it. Me first. Some attempts to turn the judiciary into an instrument of political struggle are causing Croatia damage, simply damage. Expansion of media freedoms and full protection of public, commercial and non-profit media from political influences above all from the influence of the central government, as well as from the Croatian government, is a achievement which I am proud of. This, however, is not enough for the media to have a function that democracy belongs to. Professional journalism with its methods and ethical standards is an irreplaceable mechanism in training every man, each citizen to make a rational and competent decision on the day of the election. I'm not saying the right decision, rational and competent decision. Without it, democracy does not exist. The state and society will not allow Croatian citizens to be deprived of impartial, timely and complete information about what surrounds us and what affects our lives and makes our lives. We must also not allow this because it depends largely on the success of our efforts to expand the space of freedom and inclusion. Protecting minority rights, national minorities, but also all other social groups that are minority are not just our legal and human duty. This is our moral obligation towards the past and the future of Croatia. One of the most permanent and sublime jobs of every Croatian government is to suppress hatred for others and different ones. Create a country where every man will feel even more free and secure regardless of his national and religious background, origin, sexual commitment, worldview or social status. Only with that purpose have we passed the Law of... the partnership of the same sex person. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We will use all legal and democratic means to defend Croatia from those who are spreading impatience and suspicion towards diversity of means to achieve political goals and private breakthroughs. This government is also aware of the importance of spiritual and identity values in the lives of people who are stronger than anything associated with belonging to the same language and the same or similar cultural code. It can't be prescribed by any law. It's in your heart and head or not. The Ministry of Culture supports all valuable and artistic initiatives and cultural initiatives, but also helps train public and private institutions and companies to more actively join EU funds. Culture must be available to as many people as possible and must have the ambition to step on a wider cultural scene – regional and European. Culture that is culture within four walls or within one border is not culture. It's a dogma. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not be afraid of the noise. It's usually the ones who see their chance only in chaos and manipulation. I say as a rule. Sometimes noise is very rare, but sometimes it's necessary. Croatia is smarter and stronger than those who openly underestimate it. Our nation has passed over the past four centuries through much more difficult temptations and challenges than the difficulties we are now facing. We succeeded and won and prevailed because we believed in ourselves, in the strength of our will and in the correctness of our national and state objectives. We don't have to, and we don't need to be political like-minded to gather around the faith in ourselves as a prerequisite for progress and prosperity, as faith in tomorrow, as optimism. We do not need faith in tricks and shortcuts, but a firm confidence that we are able to provide healthy, balanced development of Croatia for the benefit of all. We will be persistent and patient in implementing a concept where growth is based on new employment, on production, on exports. And services, but also tangible things. We know that this tenacity and patience will be paid to the nation, not to us. And we know that the effects that will give insistence on that concept will not be short-lived and superficial. It will be a stable foundation of continuous progress, and happier and better Croatia. Thank you and cheers! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86458	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going through the clubs of representatives as provided for by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Now it is the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community and Honored Representative Tomislav Karamarko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86459	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Milanovic. This is therefore the second year that the Prime Minister is based on Articles 128 and 129. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall submit an oral annual report on the work of the Government. The fact that the Prime Minister submits an oral report of one hour, followed by representatives of clubs, can make their views available for 20 minutes and that the final review again belongs to the Prime Minister, and that there is no debate, i.e. the replica of the exhibition, clearly indicates that the Prime Minister has sought to provide himself with the dominant position in the Croatian Parliament. Because let us remember that this provision was introduced into the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on his initiative. It would be normal for the government, in accordance with democratic practice, to submit to the Croatian Parliament a written annual report on work, to the Prime Minister, to provide an additional oral explanation of the report and to discuss it in this House of Higher Education, which would not only be reduced to 20 minutes of the presentation of representatives of the club representatives. However, since I and the other representatives of the club representatives are left with nothing but to express our view of the state of society and the state and the work of this government. And what about the ad hoc report we first heard today? I have to say, it's farsical, full of illusory projections and utopia. And that's probably why we couldn't even get him a day earlier. This is a wish report, not what's been done. Mr. Milanovic, you seemed to be the prime minister a month ago. In the fourth year of the term of office Croatian society, Croatian citizens are not ready for this kind of your poetry because the life of our citizens in your direction is anything but poetic. But let's get back to reality now. And the reality is that the situation in society and the state relative to last year has deteriorated. After the fall of GDP in 2012 by 2% and in 2013 by an additional 1%, the domestic gross product continued to fall in 2014. So he recorded a real reduction of 0.4% in the first and 0.8% in the second trimester this year compared to the same period last year. Thus, the current Croatian government became a record player. In what? In fact, some valuable economic analysts have found that this government is the only one in the last 60 years in Europe but also the wider one that has recorded such a long-term downturn and that it is still in power. The decline in domestic gross production has been strongly affected by the decline in investment, adverse labour market developments and the decline in personal consumption. Regardless of the average number of registered unemployed persons increased by only 0.2% in the first half of 2013 compared to the first half, there was a reduction in the number of persons employed by about 32 000 or 2.3%. It is obvious that the slowdown of the growth of the unemployed results of the administrative erasing of the unemployed in the Employment Service and that it is a particularly worrying wave of emigration of young and educated people from Croatia, thus jeopardising the economic and demographic future of our country. The total foreign debt at the end of May this year was 46.6 billion euros. The foreign debt for the first five months of this year marked a 1 billion increase. The biggest contribution to foreign debt has come from the country's sector. Given the high deficit of the state budget, which is forecasted by serious economic analysts this year to amount to nearly 19 billion kuna foreign debt and public debt will continue to grow unconstitutionally and seriously threaten not only the financial but also all kinds of stability of the Croatian state. Instead of using the fact of Croatia's accession to full EU membership in the withdrawal of funds from EU funds, the Government has shown an incredible ease and inability to implement these funds and the ineffectiveness of the public administration in the preparation of projects by threatening to lose more than a billion euros in 2016 and 2017. Since the arrival of this government, the standard of Croatian citizens has dropped cumulatively by 10%, and there has been no such example in Europe lately. The main reason for this is a significant increase in tax burden and an increase in unemployment. Negative movements throughout the government's current mandate will, by all accounts, continue until the end of this year because all trends are negative. Investments, not only do they not grow, but they continue to fall alarmingly. Construction's down, personal consumption's down. All this is the result of the economic and not only economic policy of this government whose action is inspired not by the idea and vision of how the country gets out of crisis but by the idea of so-called. the introduction of a order that is based on proof and demonstration of the very often power and force of the same authority. The continued changes to the rules, particularly tax, arbitration in the appropriate law by inspection services, the unpredictability of the procedures of state bodies, inefficient public administration, inconsistencies of the central and local authorities have made Croatia an undesirable place not only for foreign but domestic investors. With its measures and actions, the government has only deepened the crisis in society and many Croats think that the economic and general social situation would be better if the governments were gone at all. Or if we have to put up with her so she doesn't do anything. Strong experiments, radical cleaning of administrative structures and employment according to the criteria of purely political similarity have led to absurdity. Instead of focusing its action on implementing structural reforms of public and state administration and restructuring of public companies, the Government dealt with the most with taxes and reckless measures without valid analyses and evaluations of the effects of its decisions. The tax burden has become unsustainable. The government doesn't realize that by increasing taxes beyond a certain limit, the base falls. The increase in the tax rate cannot compensate for the reduction of the base. The amount of tax collected is lower because people have less and less spending, which shows a decrease in VAT revenues in the first half of this year compared to the first half of last year by as much as 6.8%. In spite of the fiscalisation and intensive implementation of the old debt collection measures, VAT revenues are on the decline, which praises the Ministry of Finance whose head is pressed against the problems of complaining that the system it manages is not functioning and that the closest associates he has chosen are not performing the tasks for which they are in charge. Everything this government does is contradictory and confusing. Reduce the contribution to health insurance and increase it again. Reduce tax, VAT tourism, and increase it again. It increases income tax and now announces its reduction. Announcing health reform and withdrawing. Itd., etc. Obviously a lack of both vision and knowledge. Instead of checking ideas and measures, she quickly introduces them and experimentes on the entire nation and state. They brought us into the maze of their delusions, ignorance, and indecisiveness, wasting time and endangering the future. The entire state and society have become hostages to their delusions, ignorance and inconsistency. The only thing they are consistent with is the infallible ease of transferring responsibility to others for lack of vision and ability. They themselves are probably aware that the situation in Croatia is constantly getting worse and that people are increasingly living have tried and are trying to draw public attention to world-wide disputes by imposing their narrow world-wide views on society, creating unnecessary divisions. Let's just remember the suspension of the memorial... of the victims, the introduction of... of health education in primary and secondary schools, Lex Perkovic, the violent setting up of bilingual panels in Vukovar. We also remember attempts to ratify a harmful interstate border agreement with BiH. There is still wandering around the way of connecting the Croatian South, building the Pelješki bridge. All this suggests that the Croatian government is not only not working in the interests of the Croatian people and the Croatian state, but at this point leading a policy contrary to national interests. Honestly, this government and the ruling coalition have come to power on a wave of high expectations and awakened hopes for the improvement of all Croatian citizens. Not only has none of the promised been achieved, but by its action it is a moral and material and political... Croatian society. This government should understand that most of the Croatian people no longer trust it and that in the right sense, the words have become minority. The government has shown its inability to draw the country out of a deep economic crisis, with its measures crisis only deepening and increasing the sense of hopelessness and imperceptibility. Given the inadequacy and indecision in the design and translation of the necessary reforms and the rest of the government's mandate, it will be merely a wait and attempt to restore the people's lost trust to cheap... and populist measures. We will continue to have negative macroeconomic indicators, especially the growth of deficits and public debt that will try to cloud... the sale of state assets and so on. monetization of Croatian road infrastructure, thereby inadmissiblely reducing Croatian national wealth. If the government and its president really care about the well-being of the people, they should resign and return the mandate to the people who chose them. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the crisis is not our destiny, nor should Croatia be condemned to poverty and emigration of young people. Croatia certainly can and must better. It needs a strong and capable government that will restore hope and drive dead potentials and create the preconditions for the creativity and workability of our people who are known in the world to come to full prominence. We need a government that will gather all the patriotic and professional potentials that have the determination and willingness and the strength to implement the necessary reforms. Which will not... be fast or easy, but will offer perspective and reverse negative economic trends and give hope for a better life for all Croatian people. In the end, we need a government that will become part of a solution, not a key problem like the moment Government. Croatia needs tax redistribution both in the economy and in the population, which is only possible with the parallel implementation of structural reforms. Croatia needs a stable tax system, simplifying legal regulations, a stable and predictable policy and an effective legal and overall business environment. It is necessary to carry out functional decentralisation and to clearly distinguish powers and thus also responsibility between local and state authorities. It is necessary to review the delirious and number of numerous state agencies, to restructure public enterprises that are not allowed to be used to foster political counterparts. The economic recovery programme must bring together all those who care about Croatia's improvement. And indeed, I agree, we must unite in this work all the patriotic and professional forces both in Croatia and in emigration. We must restore confidence and faith in our own ability and make all of Croatia a partner together, not an EU problem. Croatia can and must become a pleasant place for all its residents to live and work. I am convinced that Croatia can become a perspective European state in which foreign investors will not need to be lured, but because of the recognised favourable conditions of business, investors will come alone. Dear colleagues and colleagues, for such Croatia, we are aware, many victims have fallen and it is our obligation to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86460	Thank you, too. The next Club of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament to discuss this topic is the club List of Independent and Honored Representatives Grubisic and Cain. Col. Ivan Grubisic, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86461	My colleagues and fellow MPs. I tried to closely monitor Mr. Karamark's exposure both to the Prime Minister and to the president of the opposition. I can say that they authentically interpreted the reality of how they looked and presented the parttocrat in Croatia in action. Namely, there are two opposing options here, parties that agree on the model of how to treat the problem, but we cannot unite as representatives of the people in solving the burning problems of Croatian society. With Mr Milanovic's presentation of the Prime Minister, I generally agree, I do not support everything because he did not talk about the current problems that occur in Croatia but put them under the rug, conditionally speaking. Signs for the preferential vote are being collected in Croatia, and the Church has allowed its premises in front of churches to collect signatures. This means at least so much that we interpret that the Church has sided with preferential voting and amendments to electoral legislation. About that action that's under way, Mr. President didn't say a word, but neither did Mr. Karamarko. Both appear against the preferential vote and other changes in the electoral legislation, and without these changes, I agree with the last time, with the president of the state, Mr Josipovic, that Croatia needs rooted or structural changes. And without structural changes where partytocracy is ruled, not democracy coming out of our crises will be. It is important to see what the predecessors did not speak of either by the opposition or by the ruling in Croatia, so it is a change in electoral legislation. They're afraid of it, they have their reasons, I respect those reasons, but I don't approve of them. I'm here as a parliamentary representative to raise three questions, they've run out of echoes because neither side accepts it. Only one MP told me if I needed a signature here alone, but it doesn't belong on either side of the opposition or the party in power. It's a matter of reviewing the Treaty with the Vatican, I've asked it as a question and what it says in the contracts that a revision... changes the situation in one of the signatories. It's my suggestion not to throw away, but to return the religious teachings to church spaces, and to help the Church in that organization. And I was third to introduce a church tax that not all citizens have to pay regardless of the worldview but to pay those who want part of their tax obligations to give to the church community to whom they belong. All these proposals have run out of echoes, but today we see that both sides and opposition and parties in power are avoiding talking about these problems. I think that these are the problems if we really want to introduce democracy instead of partytocracy in Croatia and if we want to have better civil and ethical Croatia. It is particularly important to point out that no other speaker as representatives of the party in power and opposition mentions the ethical dimension of the problems that rock Croatia and which are the source of our economic problems. There is also a need to speak, not to speak here as a priest and to root for 10 commandments of God, but to say that essential ethical principles are needed in the functioning of Croatian society. Don't steal, don't lie, don't take what's not yours, etc. It was on that scale which was researched in Europe in 1992 by the system of values, where the system of values was changed in view of the decament in the spirit of modern thinking. So the first order in the new system doesn't steal, but in the sense of not taking mine. Both sides are willing to take what is not theirs, and these are taxpayers' money. They should go for the general good of the Croatian peoples and citizens of Croatia. That's how much I wanted to say. It is necessary to move from partytocracy to democracy, from speech on democracy to promoting democratic models and one of them is a reference vote. If we had this for the European Parliament why not have it for the presidential elections and for the elections that await us next year, parliamentary elections. I think it would be good to listen to the spirit of the people and in the spirit of the people, because democracy is the rule of the people, not the minorities or representatives they have chosen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86462	Thank you, too. Part two of the postman Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86463	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Parliament. I personally believe that these talks of the prime minister become a good practice, or rather become a praiseworthy practice. Clearly, on the other hand, it is difficult to talk about the Croatian moment today, citizens are increasingly threatened by existence, our citizens are over-indebted, our season has been modest this year, our salaries are as they are, small, the executions become everyday and the economy has been stagnating since 2008. There must be a few positive shifts, some of which are announced which will happen, let's go in a row from the collection of income or taxes and so on, but about that later. And certainly, it may be one key moment at least this year if not these three years of mandate, this solidarity shown by citizens with floods in eastern Slavonia. It should also be said that only in this year's flood damage was estimated at some 3.5 billion kuna. How do I see things from the other side? I think two measures will first of all follow the budget of what the prime minister was talking about for 2015. Perhaps those two measures are crucial to the impression of the Government, the ruling coalition for the 2015 elections, which is that small businesses, as well as crafts whose annual income does not exceed 3 billion kuna, will pay VAT for the bill and this new Income Act, which would have to increase salaries to almost everyone in the public, clear, real sector and then likely to increase spending. There have been other good moves, from the Swiss, but the fact is that there are no measures left for reforming local self-government or state administration. And why am I saying that? Because during the 2008 crisis, 22 thousand people were employed here in the state, or public, local sector, while the number of real sector employees with a million 252 thousand fell to a million 132 thousand, or the number of employees fell by 10% or by 120 thousand. At the time of the worst crisis since 2008, the mass of government salaries and local self-government have increased by 3 billion kuna or from 37 billion to 40 billion kuna, while in the private sector, wages have fallen from 76 billion to 68 billion kuna. So without reforming that state apparatus, we're not getting away with it. But something else, without Croatia dealing with corruption, or if it doesn't deal with corruption, we don't have a future. Looks like the DORH moved to another planet. Or should I withdraw, to return to local self-government, parallel and state administration only with Istria. In Istria, we have 42 units of local and regional self-government. There are 1015 people working in the self-government district plus 3000 in the municipal service. While the state's budget pays salaries for 7875 employees plus 1300, I don't know 1400 cops who aren't in the central salary account. For entrepreneurs on the other hand, 44761 persons, 44761 persons with utility companies versus 9260 work. And as some people do, I guess now I'm just going to say it's indicative and I'm deliberately saying it because it's recently been appointed to high state duty. This is how this dominister or deputy minister from 1.1.2014 to 13.1. normally on vacation. So from 13.1. to 10.2. on sick leave, from 10.2. to 20.2. all these years working with one day of vacation for 6 days, 20.2.2014 to 6.6. sick leave, 20.7.6. to 27.6. sick leave, 18.8.2014 to 29.8. sick leave, a man had bronchitis, but he attended all the festivals, fitness etc. And now I'm glad that this man is healthy, normal, and I'm not imputing anything to anyone and that he can follow the bitter rhythm of one of our ministers. I also know that this is not the DORH 2014 report and I am glad that it does not affect the DORH but the second or first problem of this country is corruption. I'm sure corruption isn't at that highest level of government today, but it's lower than it's ever been before. Why? Because of the inaction of the DORH police, good police and government and perhaps some other institutions. And a man is really asking himself a question where these people are lost, maybe they're on sick leave just like this dominar. If this DORH lets the entire municipalities privatize as they did from Brtonigla, Oprlje, Motovun, Threatening then no one will invest in Croatia. He mentioned the agricultural land minister and should offer it to farmers but prevent speculation and urbanisation. If individuals are asking for 500,000 euros in bribes or 600,000 euros, I mention Maria to the captain or if Galan is rewarded, former president of the Venet region, now in house arrest, then you've pissed him off to us. Why did I mention Maria to Captain Palacio, because the president mentioned in one word antifascism. Her mother was wounded twice, the end of the war in '45. She was welcomed by the rank of captain, and on her doorstep the Nazis killed her father, mother, and four brothers and sisters. She wanted to sell the land, to whom, Brother Simon Perez, but it didn't work out. And that's why we gentlemen are stagnant. That's the basic reason why we fell in Istria. In 2001, we had 36% of GDP higher than the Croatian average, today 27%. 2001. 6.5% participation in the incomes of the Republic of Croatia, today 4.5%. Our salary is below the national average, we have 94 EU projects and we are in the last place with Zagor. And how is it elsewhere? This country lives from the past work of those generations that raised the country's material base to the 1990s. A year. If you keep in mind that someone has to settle all obligations neatly and they're too big, that there's no Fridays or saints without others coming to work or work, then that offends us. One of them works, they sell out everything, they fight, and the other one, let's say, through a pre-war deal, the state forgives them. I don't know how much richer they come out. When someone in the West ends up in bankruptcy, it usually runs out of everything. Someone gets a new chance, but most of them go from zero to richer. People are gunned down, I don't spread hopelessness, though. People are saddened and let's not be surprised at this tsunami of the referendum. I've already suggested that I be cynical, to determine the day of the referendum, for example. 3 weeks at 10 months or 2 weeks at 11 or 4 weeks at 7 months. What's a little bit better is Croatian exports. In the first semester of 2014, we reached $37.7 billion, which is 14.3% or 4.2 billion more than in the 6th month. Imports were 5.1% higher, so that's good. In Istria 7.5 billion kuna. In Croatia, €28.3 billion has been blocked by 317 thousand 163 citizens, which is 7.4% of the population of Beautiful ours or 11.04% of the working population. In Istria, 14 thousand 91 inhabitants are blocked and owe 1 billion 450 million kuna. Maybe you can lower the VAT on meat, sir. It's a tough year. The last seven years of that Bible study have been difficult, but I want to believe that there will be seven fruitful years ahead of us. I believe in a slight shift in 2015, in the opposite people will not forgive us even though I am convinced that many and 2015 will be difficult years, clear decentralisation etc. Today, in the media, I was attacked by a member of the ruling coalition, Mr Miletic, that Cain was a politician because I called these festivals drug festivals. 400 of them found drugs, and through a Polish hospital held in Stinjan, the English passed 3 to 3.5 thousand children who did not bend their legs. Enough with that. I'm equally concerned about today's announcement of TDR sales in Kanfanar. I hope to keep production in Kanfanar, i.e. current employment, and perhaps it is a message to the Croatian government to visa the new rules we have introduced. I hope there isn't going to be a shut-down of the mammal's refinery, let alone the Rijeka. The monetization of highways yes, Croatia can't handle it. In Istria it works how it works with... Istrom, the state frees them from VAT plus 220 million kuna just this year we've secured in the budget and I hope they'll start with their investment, ACI offer pension funds. Brijuni, I think that concept is wrong but that mockery of the hotel on that island really needs to be changed. When I talk about media freedoms, really when I look at the government's behavior they're complete, this government doesn't need to be afraid, but somewhere else where local communities single out 1% of their media revenue, the media behaves like their services. Yes, Croatia is a free country, as this prime minister says, but some regions are not and were not free, they were a feather of freedom, and these governments certainly do not need to be afraid, but I fear that some others at other levels should be afraid. Croatia is not Switzerland, Croatia was neither Austria, Croatia will not soon be Denmark or Belgium, name only one man or only the government is unserious. We're all in the same boat, on the same sea, and we're equally responsible. It will be difficult, but I still believe in tomorrow and that 2015 would have to bring some changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86464	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is now up to the Club of Independent Representatives Linic, Vuksic and Nedzad Hodzic, representatives of the Croatian Bosniak Party. Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86465	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government. The Rules of Procedure are forcing us to improvise. It would be said to be a bad solution to the Rules of Procedure, in fact, it is the will of the ruling. When we discussed the Rules of Procedure, we were talking about the fact that there was no point in having the Prime Minister present a report that we would first hear, and we should look back at that report. It is not good for the Prime Minister or for the Parliament or for anyone or for the Croatian public. So, we should comment on what Mr. Milanovic was saying earlier so that it all makes sense. This is about a dozen monologues and different visions of reality or the future. What the Prime Minister was saying today could have happened on today, because exactly a year ago and exactly 24.9. spoke. But what happened today after me in the Black Chronicle. Fortunately, we can talk about it differently, that there is so much democracy in Croatia. But it looks like we live in two Croatians. One Croatia is the one presented to us and the Croatian public by Mr Milanovic, and the other we saw before two speakers they saw Croatia in their own way. And imagine how much optimism there would have been if he had submitted a report on the state of the nation or on the Government of Mr Branko Grcic, who is in charge of optimistic news, even when everything falls which Mr. Greek says is progress. Just a year ago, Mr. President, you filed your first report. I've been trying to draw your attention to the fact that looking at each of our own buses and two different eyes doesn't mean that there are two realities. I was talking about parallel worlds back then. Of course, in this whole story, neither you nor I are important, and that's why we can't have our monologues, because obviously we can't hear each other then and we don't understand the consciousness of a personal level. It's about the citizens we represent. You all, and I'm just part of it. That's why your responsibility is where and where greater. What difference does the state of the nation differ from that of a year ago? Because this report of yours could also be said to be a report on the state of the nation or on the state of society, the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the government. Just about the number of poor citizens, the number of citizens whose accounts have been blocked, the number of those who serve street Swedish tables, the number of those who wait for specialist checks, and just before you talked about health care, what kind of health care will be. You said in the inaugural speech that you wouldn't appeal to the mistakes of the past, that you wouldn't take it out on what they left behind. We've been listening to the same story for three years, that Croatia, that you couldn't make the moves that you wanted because you were left incinerated before. There's more and it's getting worse. He's more poor, more accomplished and more blocked. Just before you talked about it, about the floods. You have spoken with the right to the solidarity of Croatian citizens, about the difficulty of bringing us together. But you didn't say a single sentence other than what I heard and I remembered you were talking about irrigation. You know that even Albania is in irrigation ahead of Croatia's light years. You didn't say anything about how, how to prevent floods, the extent of floods. Because bringing everything down to natural disasters is hypocritical. If that were the case with Holland, then half the Netherlands would be gone today. She'd be underwater. Croatia can do much more in defence of floods and must be prepared for the disasters that await us in the future as air-conditioned announcers. Of course what's going on isn't just your government's fault, least of all your government. It is the mistake of all the governments so far that did not spend a lot of billions in a better way, that did not plan and that did not bring a strategy to defend against floods. You also talked about health care, but when you took power and you reduced your contribution to health care, we warned that there would be chaos in hospitals. And there's chaos in hospitals, no matter how nice you talk about the condition. There are longer waiting lists for specialist examinations, but longer are lists of those medicines that you won't get even if the medicine is life-saving. For directors and, of course, food because we have one of the biggest VATs, and we're giving out more and more. There are no announced public works. There's no foreign investment. We'd rather welcome Godo than invest. And with reforms, it's no better. No one is talking about the reconstruction of the government anymore because it's just over a year's worth of elections. When we asked you why you did not replace Ministers Rajko Ostojić and Željko Jovanovic, you replied that they are doing their job well. In the end, you replaced them. Did you replace them because of pressure or did they not do their job well? As you have replaced Ostojic and Jovanovic, so should Minister Jakovina, Culture Minister Andrej Zlatar Violić, Minister of Economy of Vrdoljak, whose portfolio is sinking in live mud, the vice-president of the Greek government, who, like a good soldier, is trying to spread optimism. And that optimism is based on nothing. For him, negative economic trends are also indicators of recovery. Where are the reforms you announced? In the pre-election campaign, all the bells were announced that as soon as you came to power, you would reform the entire electoral legislation. - It's done. - It's done. It's done. The only thing that seems today, and it seems in agreement with the largest opposition party, is the fire on Mrs. Zeljko Markic and the Family's Association. The Family Association is doing what unfortunately doesn't do politics. Politics seems to have joined the big parties in preventing preferential voting, not allowing the people to choose those they wish to represent in parliament, but only party heads can do so. A group of 30 MPs advocates for the inability to run and choose those who have narrowed down to crime. Why would you object to that? Why not put this on the agenda at the next session of the Parliament, discuss it, make a decision and prevent a referendum? Preferential vote, disabling those who have become involved in crime to be on the list and what is being sought, which requires 30 MPs among them from the ruling party, means we have managed to acquire one from the ruling party, is incompatibility of functions. You didn't say anything about that. You've announced a reform of local self-government, today you say you're not for letting go of people. You're not brave enough to fire a few thousand or tens of thousands in the state administration. Who says that reform, the only goal of reform, is to fire people? That's not reform then. You promised a media strategy. She's not here right now. We're about to enter the fourth year of your term. You promised an industrial strategy, it's gone. You promised a rebirth in agriculture that would begin by concessioning state agricultural land. None of that, the land is still abandoned, unprocessed, more and more agricultural households are dying from day to day, it's shutting down, we're increasingly importing food, and we're working less and less in agriculture. And we're satisfied with that. To those who do not want to work, you rent land, and to those who can't get land because of the land cry. In view of the nadal criteria and of the minister whose mandate was eliminated, the most agricultural economies increased food imports and decreased exports. We are a country that crashes into the chest because after 10 years of negotiation, it has succeeded in bringing Croatia to Zagreb IKEA. At the same time, Croatia is exporting logs. It cannot be the state that will open new businesses or dictate to the businesses that will be produced. It's often said from this pay phone. Well, you can! For example, when South Korea can, Croatia can. I didn't say North Korea. I said South Korea. If there were creators and visionaries in the government, it could be done as well as in many countries that intervene even in the private sector. And now I'm going to set examples to understand what I'm talking about. In the mid-60s, the government of South Korea sought to build a steel mill. The project was declared insane because South Korea does not have the raw materials needed to produce steel. In negotiations with the World Bank and the US governments, Great Britain, western Germany, France, Italy encountered a disapproval wall. They were all rejected by reason that it was the worst business proposal. More so, the government put a general of the South Korean army at the head of the project. The World Bank has deterred all countries from work, yet with the help of military reparations paid by Japan's company I began production of steel in '73. Until the '80s. The company was one of the most rational managements. By the 1990s, it became one of the largest steel companies in the world. It was privatized in 2001, but not because of bad business. The Korean government forced private companies to produce what they didn't think of. The electric giant LG intended to deal with the production of textiles. The government forbade LG and forced them to produce electric cables. Today, LG is a world-renowned cable manufacturer. In the '70s, the government forced the founder of Hyundai to launch the shipyard, met with resistance from the owner who, of course, broke it. Today, Hyundai is one of the largest shipyards in the world. It was done by the neoliberal government of South Korea. Knowing what is wanted and what can be known and how it will be achieved. The example of South Korea is just one example of how the government can and must work because let's not forget that all the businesses of any system are still planned. And thank God they're planned. A rare free market policy rarely turns a poor country into rich. Nothing happens to itself, and that's what you said today in your speech that it's exactly the state that needs to intervene, but it intervenes too little. One of the greatest delusions that is often repeated behind the parliamentary speaker is that stable banks guarantee general stability. In 2008, the crisis witnessed that the financial market, i.e. the newly created financial assets, made the entire economy and the entire financial system unstable. After all, Thomas Jefferson rightly considered banking activity far more dangerous than any professional army and was right. The point of funding is that it is faster than the real economy, but if the financial sector moves too fast it can destroy the entire economy. What happened in a number of countries where banks drained all the money that didn't work out for the military. So despite these facts, the government is still on the table selling and the last state-owned banks such as the highway sale in mind, selling everything anyone wants to buy. But it's not something like the moves of the Korean government. Then how do you repay your debts? Both from the debtor's fungi that are pressing the Croatian budget and then from all citizens, present and future. The programming of debts with religious negotiations, negotiations with the EU, which stiff, zero legitimate rules of 3% of deficits and public debt amounting to 60% of GDP, is suffocating Croatia. How did she choke Greece to which the EU has prescribed measures to heal the economy? Since these measures apply, the unemployed are 30% higher, I'm talking about Greece. Before agreeing to EU rules, Greece's public debt amounted to 120% of GDP, today amounts to almost 180% of GDP. We're going the Greek way. In 2015, there will be 200% of Greece's GDP debt. The debt of Greece will never be returned and will of course be written off. Just like the debt was written off and Germany. In 1953, 60% of the debt was written off. I've heard a few times in the SDP Parliament from my colleagues that they don't think of it by, that we're neat payers. We are the orderly payers, the ones who have charged us several times what we have already paid. And why does it not occur to them to help Croatian citizens like other German citizens, Argentinean, Ecuadorian, Islamic? Of course, you need to know what to do after you write off your debts because Argentina has been toned seven times in a row. The claim that we sell roads so that we can repay debts and that small part of the debt, similar to the Greek story again. In fact, Greece is at a stage when it's being debated to sell everything from shore to island to land, and the only question is when it's all sold, what then? You talked a little bit about state-owned enterprises becoming party fortifications. We know who manages state-owned enterprises, we know how he manages state-owned enterprises. It seems to me that these state-owned companies, being managed as badly as possible, are sold out on the grounds that the state is a bad master. You said the labour law when we discussed the Labour Act here that it would be passed so that as many people as possible could be employed. I didn't see the Labour Act infused with higher employment. We'll see your next report in a year, which will change with the employees. You said we weren't gonna run the state as a company. It seems to me that you run the state as a losing company, with a lot of former... to run it like... without a good CEO. The roads, you said, won't go anywhere, when we put them in a concession, only the populists can be against concessioning the road. So, all of those governments that haven't given their infrastructure in privatisation or on board are populist, they're just anti-privitation populists. I don't think there's anything wrong with that logic. We can't give in to personal impressions. I'm at the beginning when you lied to the government's work, when you were talking about what the government is doing and what the government is going to do, you got the impression, there's some light. That's when I stepped up and I saw here a play of theater where you have a role in embellishing reality. The numbers, I said, should not be given to the impression, as I have not given in to the impression and many others, the figures say that in the report you were just saying populistly because the figures are against you. In Croatia, tons of business, citizens are increasingly in charge, more and more poor, more and more digging through garbage cans. That wasn't a word of it. And at the very end, about the monster referendum as the representatives of the two largest parties said. It is one of the, they say, mass referendums are being explored in Croatia, one of the fat, not mass, but mass lies. At the time of the Croatian multi-party, in 1990, only one citizens' national referendum was held and imagine after that referendum the political elite was concerned about what if the people were to get into the practice of seeking referendums, so the people would not decide what would happen in Croatia. All the governments so far, policy so far has shown that there is a great need for the help of the people and that referendums are only the result of inaction. We can make this referendum, simply not prevent it, but simply be able to get ahead of ourselves, bring it to the Parliament in time for the laws, the proposals have already been called, written and will not be in quotes, the monsters of the referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86466	Thank you very much. The next club is HDSSB in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86467	Thank you. Dear Croatian Parliament Vice-President, Croatian Prime Minister, MPs and MPs, since this is the report by the prime minister, I will also touch on some parts of the work of the government of the Republic of Croatia, which I think may not have referred to in my report enough. I would, for example, start with a foreign policy resolution where Croatia's foreign policy in the term of this government, Minister Vesna Pusic has proved very inconclusive, very inconsistencies, and in the opinion of the HDSSB Representatives Club and unfocused on promoting and promoting Croatian state interests. In particular, after becoming a full member of the EU, the Republic of Croatia led an external policy that it did not remind at all, more as if it were an associated member of the EU than had become a full member, as if, after joining NATO and the EU, there were no visible strategic guidelines for Croatian foreign policy anymore. Croatia's diplomacy in the current government's mandate was not sovereign to any foreign policy issue raised during the government's term of office. I'm going to remind you of the recent disorientation and currently surrounding the Ukrainian crisis, about the embargo towards Russia. I will remind you of the lack of any reaction to Israeli military activities to civilian objectives in the Gaza Strip several months ago. I will remind you of the easy and unspeakable acceptance of all positions of larger allies in both NATO and the EU and the almost dogmatic focus on so-called. region. The latest example where, without any state decision, the government or the Croatian Parliament of the United States puts us in a coalition against the Islamic state, and Minister Pusic yesterday tells us that this state decision that has not been taken at all is a technical issue, it is almost the height of courtship and sub-dural mentality which is otherwise a feature of Croatian foreign policy. When it comes to the economy, in last year's report, you pointed out the 4 main direction of government activity towards exiting the crisis. This was the introduction of order, consolidation of state finances, restructuring and rationalisation of the state and public sector, and the adoption and implementation of recovery and strengthening measures. Of course, these measures stemming from the wrong definition did not produce any fruit. Wrong definition, wrong measures. According to the HDSSB Club's position, if we share practically with the entire economic profession and with external analysts assessing the situation in the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia is not in crisis, the Republic of Croatia is in a six-year economic recession that has become both economic and social depression. The cumulative decline in GDP during this six-year period reached almost 13% with a failure that you share with your predecessors from the former government at three years of age. The state of economic six-year recession has reversed Croatia for almost twenty years. This economic and social drama, which practically broke the Croatian industry, shut down the market with securities, led to a blockade of over 320 thousand Croatian citizens, increased unemployment to over 400 thousand, and reduced employment by about 15% in the six-year period, respectively, during the recession period, lost about 170 thousand jobs, pushed a credit rating into the garbage category, and Croatian public debt to a very high level. This drama of Croatian economy, Croatian society, and, of course, Croatian man as if he were taking place in some parallel universe compared to our Croatian government, to its perception and assessment of the Croatian set. And precisely because of the unwillingness to face the weight, depth and severity of the situation in which Croatian society is located, most of the measures this government has taken or taken were relatively limited, weak, hesitant, and primarily variable. Let's just remember what was praised in last year's report, so it boasted with a decrease in VAT in tourism to 10% or a reduction in health contributions by 2%. A few months later, these measures were abolished or changed. Croatian agricultural production experienced a dramatic decline in milk, meat and cereals production. The only thing growing in agriculture today is the number of employees in various agricultural agencies. What would be good if the president of the Croatian government knew is that out of 1.3 million hectares of farmland, about 1.1 million are currently being processed by the OPGs. So Croatian agriculture depends entirely on or is dependent on it by small producers, peasants, people living in the country and on villages and people who are fatefully and existentically bound to that village. And every day, 10 to 15 of these OPGs are shut down on Monday. In 2013, in which Croatia had already been a member of the EU for 6 months, the total amount of Croatian agricultural income was around €5.5 billion, which compared to the previous year was about 12.7%, while compared to the period at the beginning of the recession in 2008 it was around 3 billion kuna. Of course, such an impact on agriculture and on agricultural incomes is most felt by Slavonia and Baranja. As far as the interests of Croatian villages and Croatian agriculture are concerned, it might be best if we didn't have the Ministry of Agriculture, better if we didn't have it than we do with this ministry and with this minister we have today. You spoke in the last report, and today you mentioned that you were calling for proposals, for initiatives, for a solution. So the first thing we think is necessary to do is actually face the weight of the recession, the depression in which the Republic of Croatia is. It is also necessary to do in this last year of the term of office what has not been done in the previous three and three previous Governments, the recession years, and this is to include monetary policy in the process of exiting the recession, the Republic of Croatia from recession. If the CNB law needs to be amended, it should also give the NHB new tasks and new guidelines for action and participation with fiscal policy on exit from the crisis. Monetary power can no longer stay aside and worry only about its interests as if it is not part of the economic life of the Republic of Croatia. It is necessary to define basic guidelines and economic policies that cannot include some ideas that are completely out, such as the idea that the information industry which is defacto in the bandages in the Republic of Croatia will be the bearer of industrial development or exit from recession should be re-directed and actually returned to the wood and food industry which, with accompanying activities, has considerable development potential. The public sector, the state apparatus at all levels needs to be systematically and seriously rationalised, financial tranches at all levels, according to agencies, the NGO sector, consultants and various parafiscal consumers of money it does not need to be aware of the least possible measure. And the availability of all public services is aware of the measure that Croatian taxpayers can finance at all. It is also necessary to abolish those parafiscal burdens that have arisen right in the term of your government. Return to the payment model of all overhead costs paid by citizens according to the cost rather than according to the wishes of those who impose these duties. Which certainly includes removing a number of fixed fees that are paid today just for the fact that you have a water, electricity or gas connection as if it were some luxury. It is not possible to introduce, for example, a parafiscal charge of 1.5k per cubic of water and at some point because some state institution lacks money from Croatian citizens' pockets of about 600 million kuna, which has been done since April 1st this year. You could have taken 10 kunas per cubic bit so you could have taken 5 billion. The fiscal Republic of Croatia needs to be decentralised, along with a territorial reconstruction in 5-7 regions. We welcome your newly discovered focus today on the issues of increasing employment, export growth and disbursement of citizens in order to increase consumption. But unfortunately, this new direction of economic policy that is now beginning in the last year of your government's mandate actually only confirms the thesis of political instability and in fact the search, wandering and certain disorientation that has been present all this time. Croatians are victims of recession not caused by recession. The inability so far to lead the country in a healthy and economically sustainable manner is the cause of recession. We therefore invited you to open a parliamentary debate on measures that are possible to reduce the wide impact of recession on Croatian citizens especially when it comes to real estate performances and are the only property they have to look for ways to protect their home. And home is also a constitutional category. There is no answer for months and our motion for discussion stands at the bottom of the agenda and is probably waiting for some night term to discuss. I will also remind you of the Croatian exporters' position they are looking for, they are not looking for money, except for certain stable sources of credit funding. But they are looking for two things, a stable legal environment and the continuity of legislative legislation of at least 15 years. Neither of them have been given systematically for years or in the term of office of this government. There is no stable legal environment, nor is there a continuity of legal regulation for a period of 2 years or 4 years, let alone 15 years. When it comes to defence, I would agree with you on the value and meaning of the role of the Croatian Army in floods but this is not the basic task of the Croatian Army, the Croatian Army should not have an organised civil protection system that should be the bearer of the fight against floods. And that is why we call on you to finally settle the issue of civil protection as soon as possible and to actually re-organize civil protection in an adequate way because obviously in times that come and accidents that are increasingly common that we actually need to have one orderly civil protection system again because indeed the military is not a primary task and is not a fundamental task to participate in these things but to participate in them by force of opportunity. When it comes to the future of the purchase of complex military systems as well as the purchase of aircraft, the answer to this question should be sought through cooperation with the German Armed Forces and the purchase of technology, it is the only and sustainable way. The HDSSB also supports retaining the aviation capabilities of the Croatian Air Force, resolving the issue of the purchase of aircraft just as I have stated. I know that sometimes it is not easy for you and your people to find common ground with Croatian defenders, understand and share the problems you do not have and share the trouble that does not bother you. And, of course, you can't create money you don't have but you can and must create time to take a minute, hour, day or week or months and try to understand and communicate with those who love Croatia so much that they have laid down their lives for it both for their parents and for their spouses. The frustration of Croatian Vukovar is not needed and cannot be solved by sending police corridors, arresting defence attorneys and ministers' statements that the most important thing is that the panels are complete. The most important thing is that people are whole, and for the plates, we'll be easy. Are you concerned about the fate of Croatian defender Veljko Maric, who has been kidnapped, convicted and sentenced in Serbia for the murder of a Croatian citizen in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and does the Croatian Government and what does it do about it? What is very important in our opinion is that you did not do it again in this report or in this mandate, which is actually to give the Croatian people the harsh reality that your predecessors have been skillfully hiding for years. We're a small country, we're a small people, we're not rich, we're not economically developed and we're not technologically advanced. It's been spreading systematically all along, and you've unfortunately become involved in the spread of this illusion that it's not like that, but it's exactly the opposite. We can no longer spend what we don't have borrowing from our own children we owe. Maybe it's time we framed ourselves at last in what we have. But instead of facing reality and the mandate of your government, it has been marked from the very beginning by political entanglement at all levels of instability and inconsistency, constant changes in the direction of economic policy, changes or announcements of changes in the tax environment, suspicious and expensive public procurement of mobiles, furniture, abnormal prices of public business rentals, the establishment of numerous and unnecessary agencies, institutions, institutes, confrontation with social groups that do not share your world-famous or valuable system, are also citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the total inability to solve at least most of the burning Croatian problems. I don't know if there's any more time in this last year of mandate to change anything, but we'll see. The corruption you little or no talk about remains a major problem for Croatian society. In this section, the strengthening of the State Attorney's Office, and in particular the USKOK for which it has, will certainly be a lot of work both in public administration and in public procurement and in public enterprises. We are therefore somewhat surprised that you did not accept the HDSB's initiative to restrict the mandate of the attorney general to a maximum of two consecutive terms of four years. And if corruption is a major problem for Croatian society, then surely the Croatian judiciary is the cancer of Croatian society. There is no justice without swift trial and severe punishment of the perpetrators, especially when it comes to the perpetrators of the most serious crimes and when it comes to political corruption and everything related to it. The social message that it is not worth stealing is, unfortunately, lagging behind in your government's mandate. The amendments to the criminal legislation that took place were inconsistencies, partial, insufficiently focused and did not become and lead to a solution to the problem but in some ways became a problem in themselves. And the social message that comes to us through the judgments that come and come out of that legislation that we're responsible for are more or less still the worst are you'll go away if you steal a little or you're not involved with politics. Do you ever wonder what Croatian history will say about you and your government's mandate? I'm sure you're wondering. Do you have a passion for Croatia? Do you want to do anything good, fair and positive for Croatia that gave you everything and made you Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia? We have the impression that you and the government you run are returning to her a little, weak, undecided. I don't know if you've had the time I had in your government's mandate to read the great majority, let's not say everything, but the vast majority of the legal proposals from all the areas that came to this Croatian Parliament, and I've often wondered if you've read them and I couldn't wonder how someone who is well-intentioned, who wants good to Croatia, who has a passion for Croatia, why and how they even come to this Croatian Parliament with these legal initiatives that your parliamentary majority in general, may God forgive me, but I believe that many have not even read about what they've been raising their hands for because they've read really don't believe that they would raise their hands. And I'm afraid that in a whole series of segments of things that have happened were actually the consequences of a weak government, not you, of you who may not have managed enough, but the weak, qualitatively weak government that you led. The HDSSB club neither supports this government because of the results it has shown nor this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86468	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists, colleague Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86469	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Prime Minister. The agenda is called the Annual Report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but I am not sure it is the government's report but the prime minister's speech. Although it says in the Rules of Procedure that the prime minister orally represents, so not by accident but by verbal means, he does not submit, but he presents this report which is not the government's document, I will continue to talk about the prime minister's speech before the Croatian Parliament, but the parliament will vote, adopt the prime minister's speech. Since media have been counting on the number of ruling coalitions over the past few days, I think voting on this speech is an ideal point of count, how many but also which advocates will support this speech, and then it will be clear to everyone which majority of the ruling coalition is stable or less stable. The written text of speech or reports, as formally stated on the agenda, would be very good, in fact it would be a gesture, a good gesture of prime minister to deliver to parliamentary deputies at least three days before reading so that they could be applied. This year we received a written speech exactly 23 minutes after the prime minister finished his speech. A lot of data has been presented, shown and apostropheated. Last year, I quote, the Prime Minister said because in the end, there are many numbers, not all of them. So I'll deal with numbers. Carefully following the prime minister's speech, I wanted to see what sightings he noticed, saw the phenomena, what problems he sees, and how he assesses the situation in society. That is how the Rules of Procedure describe the contents of the report. And I will continue my debate with a reminder, and today the prime minister called for his opening speech in December 2011 based on this document called the Government Programme 2011/2015. I quote: "The goal of the government is to gradually increase the growth rate of the economy by the end of the term of office to move at around 5% by 2015. In the same period, we will significantly reduce the unemployment rate, i.e. increase the employment rate." I thought I'd ask how high the employment rate has been since then, but I won't. In the area of energy after 14 hydro power plants have been listed, which thermally states: "It will be invested in the construction of gas pipelines and gas storage facilities, research, oil and gas exploitation, more modern refineries in Rijeka, Sisak, LNG terminal Omisalj, the Adria oil pipeline and part of the South Stream. I thought I'd ask you how many underground natural gas storage facilities have we made? When will refinement in Sisak begin? That Sisene is probably very interested now and where the development site is, so where did we get to the south flow? I realized that this document ran over time, that it was no longer worth reading, and it belongs to the trash. So I went to look for new documents and came to the government's document "The launch of a new investment cycle in February 2012. Remember, he was introduced by the first Deputy Prime Minister to say, "This shovel will be the first to be buried in March." Not March was June, well not June September, so it moved to December, then forgot what happened. There are no shovels and this document should no longer be read. I came up with a new little fresher, November 2012. At the time, he was not the first vice president, Cacic, but Branko Grcic, who presented and said "2013 GDP growth 1.8" but what is more important "gross investment in fixed capital 11.5% of growth. 2014 GDP growth 3%, gross fixed capital investments 5.2% for 2014." Looking at the statistics and the reports, and I realized I don't need this anymore. And then I came up with another newer document, if I'm not mistaken, that's from the end, since September of last year, which says that the growth of gross social product in the 14th is going to be 1.3%. But what is now important to me is the contribution of GDP growth, personal consumption or household consumption 0.1, gross fixed capital investments 1.4 and exports, or export growth 1. Thus, these three items should have increased, i.e. GDP, growth of 1.3%. It's no longer worth it today either. Since these government documents are simply no longer valid, nor can they be used as an assessment of the plans, I took a speech from the prime minister last year. And allow me four quotes about which nothing or very little has been said this year. Quote: "We don't need tutors or sponsors. We need well-intentioned partners and true friends, and partnership and friendship as I understand them means equality. Remember that word." Is this equality of Croatia proven by the fact that the US Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the US General announced to the Croatian people that Croatia entered the war, in the war coalition against the Islamics? The first vice president of the government says that the Americans have only been copying the government's decision, which will be made, we don't know when or what. That's equality. Have we proven equality with the fact that because of sanctions introduced into Russia by the EU and Russia's return measures, no agricultural product of any importance for Croatia's exports is on the EU-subsidised list with its own resources. Did we also prove this equality on the basis of the following quote on the European arrest warrant? I quote: "We will launch this debate in Europe and point to the inequality of Member States in judicial cooperation by referring to a framework decision." Continuing quote: "There is no compromise here. There is no compromise." Croatia has executed European arrest warrants, and Hungary has extradited Hernadya to Croatia or not? And we started a strong fight in Europe that we are equal and we prove our equality. A second quote. Third. "After joining the Union, our only remaining strategic task is to create conditions for a more comfortable, more content and safer life for all our people, citizens, and for the expansion of the area of human rights, individual freedoms and reasoned dialogue. Is today compared to the day when the citizens of Croatia are spoken here, people in Croatia live more comfortable, more content and calmer and in a social sense. Third quote. "Our goal is practically 100% of public investment from European funds. Well, it's not 100, and what is it? How close did we get to that goal? I used these quotes because last year I took the Prime Minister's speech as a new government programme. And in today's speech, the Prime Minister announced new directions, moves of the future that were not recorded in these documents that are now for disposal. Also last year, and this year, the prime minister boasted that failure to pay is a criminal offence as a major step towards protecting workers' rights. Today, 7832 employers do not pay salaries. Will all 7832 be prosecuted for non-payment of wages? Of course not. Not half of them, not even 10% of them, not even 1% of them will be prosecuted because non-payment of salaries is not a crime. It's only a felony if the employer doesn't pay the salary from the hanging, and if he doesn't have the money and if his account is blocked and his jury account is not a felony. And let's stop lying about default being a felony. Look at all the strange appearances, and the report should be about phenomena. And finally about numbers. 2012 Croatia has employed a million 411 thousand people. Today, a million and three hundred and seventy thousand. That's 41 thousand less employed people. At the time she had 298 thousand unemployed, today she has, now, 296. About the same level. There's no difference in retirement. Where are they? I'm abroad. The prime minister did not notice that an increasing number of citizens, particularly more and more educated, have left Croatia. What this means for the future of the economy and economy is not to be interpreted. GDP 11 quarter falls, inflation is moving between 0.1 and 0.6% per month this year, the average salary varies around 5500, and everyone points out that no one goes forward and wants to publish and say that more than 31% of employees receive salaries up to 3700 nets, 63% of employees receive salaries up to the average salary, and that our average purchasing power salary is 30% lower than the salaries of the countries with which we most often compare. Our 700 euros is worth 30% less than 700 Polish euros. That's true! There's an increase in the untaxable part of the salary, two times not one. On whose burden? Local self-government, not central states. And I'm afraid, I'm afraid that this as a boomerang will be refused to the citizens because local self-government will compensate through an increase in local costs the difference she's lost. The minimum wage, even after a double increase in the government's mandate, fell from 39% of the average wage to 37.5%. And of the countries in Europe that have a minimum wage institute, they're 21, we're in 17th place. Industrial production, finally, and it's commendable, records a slight recovery. July this, July last year 1.4% growth. And that's the only bright spot in all the numbers I've found. However, construction died, down 7.9%. Traffic at the retail store still has a negative trend, let's say now the latest data July this, July last year minus 2%. 317 thousand people, citizens in the blockade with as much as 28 billion. At the beginning of the year, it was 24 billion. 53 thousand business entities, 36,000 employees working with them in a 31 billion blockade. The debt of citizens and the debt of business entities at one point was even. Now this debt has grown, so the difference from these 3 billion. Can you imagine the situation that citizens are blocked by the same amount as all business entities? And when we increase the price of electricity we say must be, it's a European level. When we increase the price of gasoline, we follow prices on the market. When the price of water increases, it must be because it is the way it is in Europe. When taxes are increased that is the average of Europe, these are some standards in Europe. It is interesting that we always compare ourselves with Europe except when it comes to wages. So in the Republic of Croatia, workers have an average net captainate of 4.7 euros, in the EU, 11.95. And they say the labour price in Croatia is too high. Gross cost per hour of work in Croatia, gross cost, 8.8 euros and in Europe 23.7 euros. And yet they say the problem is pay, they're too big, and that's why we're not competitive. So how much pay do they have to fall on? The process of falling wages, i.e. not average wages, but increasing the number of people with lower salaries, minimum wages and those below 3700, was the consequence and began at the time when it was destroyed, collapsed and out of force put a system of collective contracts, contracts in the public sector and it had its reflection in the private sector. And I am glad that after 3 years of persistent insistence that only investments and savings will lead to economic recovery, the government has understood and accepted that the issue of increasing purchasing power is the third point of economic policy, there is also a monetary policy, but I will not talk about it anymore because we have made the Croatian National Bank extraterior. It does not work for Croatia or its citizens, but exclusively for the banking lobby and is in no way helping the government to achieve its efforts through the tax system and economic measures to stabilise Croatia. And now in the pre-election year, we're going to raise our salaries by increasing the untaxable share of salary and by raising the tax rate to increase purchasing power. And imagine that at the beginning of those three or even those four points went in the package together. That at first we did not claim that only by reducing consumption and saving can we save Croatia. It's a mistake to be human, to admit a mistake is even more human and more forgiving. And when they come up in the end, which I love that word from the Rules of Procedure, it comes up, I see one phenomenon that the Prime Minister doesn't see. Today, the Croatian worker is one salary from the street, if one salary is late in the family, either because of cancellation or because of default or a reduction in salary, the debts follow. Then there goes the blockade, after the blockade, unfortunately the number of people and the division where their properties are sold for half the value, for one third of the debt, or for 30 grand they're able to sell the house, 200 grand for 100 grand and that's not the problem. And that's why in Croatia their fate is in the kitchen, containers and plastic bottles, many of which survive and educate children. No one from the government has ever seen that phenomenon. And the final sentence, the last ten days in Croatia, has been trying to scare the citizens, disgust them and declare a dangerous referendum. Did we in the Parliament make such a referendum that caused fear and panic unnecessary and how that the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not have 75 days to give an opinion on changes to the electoral system in the Republic of Croatia and to allow debate in the Assembly on this and the possible adoption of the law made the referendum unnecessary. It's the 75th day since we've been in the process. Instead of the political sowing of fear and a new division of society, the responsible Prime Minister gives the opposition proposals within 30 days.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86470	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, colleague Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86471	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to express my satisfaction on behalf of the club once again for discussing the Prime Minister's report, a report that I think is allowed to say in these circumstances, an example of what should actually be the government's report. I'm going to try to, even though I speak for a club, not to make my speech a foreigner since it's a state and nation debate, as pretentious as it may sound in these circumstances. And of course it doesn't mean I won't say any different than what we heard. The first thing I would like to say is that we all really need to express our concern that there has been a deterioration of political processes in the Republic of Croatia in the past year and that our political system is not more stable than it is more unstable and that there are some holes in our Constitution and that there are some holes in our laws. And on the other hand, because they exist, which has developed relations between individual parts of the government in the Republic of Croatia that violate the stability of the political system. Our institutions that have been developing in the past 25 years are actually fragile and burdened with weaknesses, unprofessionalism, inefficiencies and weaknesses of political colour or political bias, that is to say. It's so in ministries like that and where it can't be, and it's in the judiciary. If it weren't for that, we wouldn't have had what we've had for the past year. And no matter how useful it may seem to someone for a political option, it's for the state and for the nation, and today we're talking about it, it's too bad. And what seems to be done by the actors who are leading this destruction, and there are those who are political and those who are not political, those who are party and those who are not party, who are actually going after it, and here in this House they should say, seek to limit and suspend political pluralism, try to say that political party organisation is something that needs to be replaced, changed and rejected. The same goes for the Croatian Parliament, is there a variety of initiatives, as there are different decisions that try to take away what are only its powers and try to weaken it. And if we think it's a good way to establish political stability in Croatia or to reach power, I don't belong to those who think so or my club belongs to those who think so. The referendums cannot replace political parties. The Church can't replace the nation, and even less the state, no matter what, but that's what's to be said. Citizens' frustrations cannot be criteria of justice and justice, and we have come to such a state that it is legalised and that it is established as a normal state. After a year of EU membership because of such facts, Croatia did not become a more European country than it was until it joined the EU, unfortunately. Political messages, political voices, political behaviours heard are completely non-European and non-own European political values with which we entered into negotiations, completed negotiations and joined the EU. As for the economy, there were a lot of words here by the prime minister and there were also a lot of words from the president of the leading opposition party and that's good. The prime minister devoted most of his exposure to this, as did the opposition president, the leading opposition parties also devoted most of their exposure to this and that's good. Why? Well, because with certain oscillations in the last 25 years, we can't stop being a non-productive society, but from day to day, from month to month, every year we become more and more non-productive society. Indicators of the prime minister's growth in industrial production are good, indicators of export growth are also good, indicators of reducing unemployment if we were to analyse them might not be as good, it might be seen that unemployment is decreasing but not because of reasons that praise our economic opportunities but open opportunities for people to be employed across Europe. Only from Osijek, as my colleagues say, charter flights and charter ticket to Ireland costs 40 euros, and then the people of Vukovar, White Manastir and Osijek have a broad opportunity to go to work there. Is that bad? It's not necessary because it's an opportunity to use it if there's no other one. But what's important for us is that we have to do something on the long run, all of us, the government first, but that's true for other actors of political life who, and we need to see, if I can use the metaphor, see that we have a car where, let's stay with the old car types of four cylinders running 1, and we think that this car can be built up so that we can try to reduce fuel consumption, change the brake plates and edit and fix the interior of the car cabin. It's necessary, but it's not enough. These remaining 3 cylinders, which exist as the prime minister rightly told the indicators to acquire conjecture for recovery, must be either replaced or recovered, and here above all I think of the following, on agriculture which unfortunately fails to find recovery in the right sense of that word, on re-industriousness which also despite growth indicators still fails to find the right presumption for... and third for the most developed forms of service activities that come with new technologies and what they are looking for which there are also indicators that individual ministries want to develop and initiate them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it seems to me that this should simply do things of a systematic economic policy in which coordination between the fiscal policy that has so far been the only instrument that has tried to manage the economy and monetary policies will be harmonised. I know it's hard and I know it rarely worked. Perhaps previous finance ministers can talk about how difficult this was but it is necessary for Croatia. Absolutely necessary. So, as we look at demographically, we reduce the workings of the population. The ratio between employees, maintenance and pensioners is such that it represents an extremely worrying indicator. And it is a particularly worrying fact regardless of how painful it has been for our pension funds to be able to finance our pension needs for a long time, but it must be made out of the budget with almost one-third of the budget funds. And so we have to be in a good position and on a long track. So the structure of our economy is mostly consumer and the status of our capital and the nature of our capital is renting. That it is rentable can be seen by the state of savings of citizens and can be seen by the state of property of citizens. The government's decision to introduce interest on the savings stakes of citizens seems to me, interest tax is a very significant step. If more is realised and those who can and who want to do so can buy government bonds will be very important and stimulating and very important to our economy. The nearly 200 billion kuna that exists on the savings stakes of citizens has been in its nature for years of renting character. Stimulating it to become, finally becoming a productive character is of great importance to our economy. And if the government continues in that direction, it can be one of the generators for overcoming the weaknesses of investment opportunities and, at the same time, better and cheaper assumptions for coming to money both for the economy and for other entities. What I'd like to say is this. It is very important to stop discussions that destabilize the political system on the one hand and draw attention from the economic situation. Croatia cannot be more Croatian than it is and if someone wants to make it more Croatian than it is it will destroy it as it has been destroyed so far. Parties and groups who want to do this seriously are doing this to destroy this society. The same is true, Croatia cannot be more liberal than it is and if there is no measure in this respect then there will be nothing more than Croatia or more European Croatia because we will have only and exclusively leasing Croatia as we have most of our missing cars. And for that reason, Mr. Prime Minister, I will end up with this part of the economy, an economic policy whose fragments you've brought here is an imperative for your ministers and for your government and for our country. Let me say a few words about our foreign policy and our European policy. We have declared that we will, and you are alone on several occasions, potentiate the application of the Europragmatic policy and replace the policy of Eurocenterism with Europragmatism and we have listened with great interest because this country deserves and needs it. But according to both the last decisions or at least the public manifestations of it we don't see it that way, we don't see it that way. For Croatia, it would be of particular importance to see how decisions have been made in her favour in Brussels rather than to see that some decisions have been made in her, in the centre of her, capital city which would be better not to be seen, if I may say so, if they were ever made. Look at the front page of one daily newspaper today, so you'll know what I'm talking about, but that's already a question for colleagues who deal with other committees than I do. So the question of the JI Europe region and the Mediterranean and the specific advantages that can bring for us our economy, the issue of cooperation with other parts of the world, above all with the question why we are not open to Asia. If there are obstacles that are moments of nature, geopolitically, why are we not open to countries that have serious interests in investment when it comes to Croatia and Europe, and then to us. And finally, I return to the first one, so to the question of how much we contribute to the destabilising of the political system, including the destabilising of interethnic relations. Yesterday we saw some colleagues who said that the government is a hooligan, who some say and today we heard that the government was violently used, and if I reminded these same colleagues of the violent character of the government so that it could be practiced in some past times then we would engage in a debate that would not be productive for Croatia's current needs, so this debate is not productive in this way either. And for this reason, I would like to ask the question of what is the meaning of the anti-kyrillic and anti-Serbian campaign in Croatia, which has been being conducted over the past year. To ruin what has been achieved, not to do what needs to be done? 1300 houses still need to be restored, 4500 housing requirements are not resolved, 200 and some settlements are without electricity. That's what I've talked about more than once and my colleagues here in the Parliament. Is the point of not doing it or the point of coming to power through the Cyrillic so that tomorrow we have a Cyrillic government that will once again have to pour its ashes that it's not what it showed itself, but that it's actually in great love with minorities. Why do we need it today when we've done so many things since '97? Even before, why is that necessary? For this reason, it seems to me that Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, no matter what the job of each of us is to present in the best possible way their political programme, their ideas and their skills and to try to create assumptions that citizens believe and give a mandate for power, but the taste is not about destroying what was created but to resolve that Gordian node that is currently bothering Croatia, which is its economic condition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86472	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of DC, Novi val and Independent Representatives Baranovic and Martincevic, colleague Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86473	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister. A lot's been said all morning. I'll start with one of your sentences from the introduction of your speech about how you won't allow the spread of indifference in the country, and especially the producer for that kind of film. I don't know what producer you've been thinking about, maybe I do, but it doesn't matter now, but I don't know if you're aware of the fact that the citizens of this country every day, but every day, most citizens of this country are experiencing the same scenario: fear of indifference, fear of losing a job, fear of existential uncertainty, fear of crisis, of tax burdens, every day is the same. In this country, the best profit has a pharmaceutical industry with the same amounts of aspirin, the same amounts of normable for this very reason. I say every day is the same and in some ways you are, and we all became the synonym of Phil Connors from the movie "Endless Day" that keeps trying to change it, but it never works. It seems to me that neither you nor we all found this magic formula to get out of this endless day in which Croatia is located. The nation is absolutely random, both from increasing existing taxes and from introducing new forms of state-run obligations, announcing the introduction of real estate taxes and interest taxes, on savings, announcements and then the denial of cuts in the public sector. All of this creates one great uncertainty, anger, and ultimately indifference. Wherever we bury, it's really the same. Of the four structural disorders that exist in this country, and indeed from the very beginning, nothing has moved, so our disorders are always the same: exports, employment, public debt and investments. The only bright spot that could be heard in your exposure is just the growth of exports, but it seems to me that we can't thank the recovery of the domestic market but a foreign one. Growth in tourism revenues again, not because of the domestic market, but because of the recovery of the foreign one. I'm asking you, it's not that, it's not that, unfortunately. I ask you why Croatia does not have a single national development strategy? It's been two and a half years. We expected you to pull an ace out of the sleeve of that strategy. You didn't make it. Instead, you have a national reform programme, a convergence programme and a partnership agreement and a bunch of little reforms that we are all more confused about. Somehow it is expected that next year in your address should appear with such a single strategy regardless, it is actually a key strategy all countries have until 2020 regardless of what will be in the last year. But better late than never. And, of course, that strategy needs to reach consensus. You've talked a lot about justice and the role of justice. I don't think reorganizing the network of courts is necessarily an element where you can boast that judicial reform has been made and that things are going better. Things will go better for you not when you bring the courts together, but when you change the key things that hurt only the judiciary and the citizens of this country. I could now give you examples of one sure hour, concrete examples of persons all over Croatia who today in 2014 are waiting to register their property, lose their ability to build, can't borrow, can't simply dispose of their properties. And now really, do you really think that if you put two courts together, that kind of man who can't get his own piece of paper would benefit? He won't. So, with all these reform steps that you have instructed me, it seems that Croatia still today represents an enemy investment environment. You say you're looking for investments in tourism. So you have a whole series of investments in state offices, requests for investment in state offices that just don't solve them. And the question is, why don't they solve them? So it's not true that there is no investment, but the problem is that they are not solved, they have fallen into the mazes of bureaucratic obstacles that simply cannot go through, and there is a need to change things and there is an investment climate to be created. So, the fact is that Croatia is currently the only EU member state that practically goes the longest through a period of long-term recession. Indeed, we are having a hard time getting out of this existential mess. In other EU countries, new measures have been taken almost daily in the European Commission, which would trigger and strengthen economic growth. Croatia as new members is expected to have both its administration and the state administration, including the judiciary as a function of creating a positive business environment. It is difficult to explain to investors and entrepreneurs to invest their money in projects in Croatia when they face problems in other countries in a few hours, and here it takes several years. "Ailing Croatia" as indicated by "The Economist" is obviously not able to handle things in the judiciary either, nor in the state administration is it in a position for those who want and can invest basic conditions to start a business and thus strengthen the Croatian economy. In the working document of the European Commission, one working document of the European Commission published in early June of this year as an obstacle to attracting foreign investment in our country, so we are talking about 2014, not since 2013, not 2012 but this year. High administrative burdens are cited, numerous parafiscal burdens, long-term court and bankruptcy proceedings, poor investment protection, and with all this marked political uncertainty. According to the World Bank's 2014 Doing Business report, Croatia's biggest drop marked just in the area of investor protection from last year's 139th place fell to 157th place. According to the global competitiveness index of the global economic forum of June this year, Croatia is just ahead of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Albania, and in this respect, the smart development of a knowledge-based economy, innovation with the aim of achieving vision and key development of the EU's goals, is not stepping down for anything more than countries in the region. That's all in 2014. The arguments we heard today that things can't change overnight are really no longer an argument, because this night, Croatia takes a little too long and surely we've all become impatient and the most citizens. I don't like pulsism, but I'll say that you've made some moves in the legalization process, and it's a major shift. You've made a move in the field of fiscalization. You've made a move in the area of resolution, some sort of shipbuilding solution and that should be recognised and that should be said and congratulated. But I'm asking you now again one other thing, and that's who's responsible for what the growth of gross social product is lower than the expectations of the government itself. Who is responsible for not achieving planned revenue and expenditures? Who is responsible for the increasing tax burden of citizens, who is responsible for price growth, for reducing income, introducing economic disturbances and reducing economic growth? The same question should be answered. This was about selling family silver. The entire government's motive was marked by stories about how privatisation was misrepresented and that the same mistakes would not be made, that the government would be the guardian of strategic firms. However, the rule seems to have not been respected because everything is being sold, and Croatia's insurance has been sold and the HPB is here we are talking and we are looking for arguments for road monetization. It has specifically pledged to cut the country's deficit to less than 3%, reduce the share of budget expenditure in GDP by 4.5 percentage points by the end of the mandate. That goal is very far away. Stopping public debt growth, reducing it and retaining below 60% of GDP, increasing investment, employment. Here, some brighter moments in the employment area but this time of the term of office of this government is indeed a weak and thin branch. The EU funds have also been used poorly. The Republic of Croatia has unused, as I see it, 200m euros from the time before EU accession, 450m euros from 2013 and a new billion euros from this year. The question is, who should be drawn here to make better use of these funds? You talked about the situation in agriculture and you promised to ensure the development of agriculture in order for Croatia to produce all the food it needs. It's never been done before. I don't know how it's gonna happen so soon next year. The European Commission issued a warning at the end of last year on the draft Croatian Rural Development Strategy for 2014 for Investment in Agriculture. There were 11 billion euros available, but the programmes reportedly were worse or very few. The minister was fixing something there, saying it was the key to association, but the problem is absolutely also with the incentive systems that we have based on the foundations of the common European agrarian policy. In the EU, it is based on the protection of agricultural income, while we are looking for both productivity and competitiveness and competitiveness. And that's why there's so much I'd say malfeasance. Every year there is a change in the amount that the state pays for individual culture, late payments, creating dissatisfaction and practically chaos in production. You also talked about restructuring and rationalisation of the state and public sector. You yourself said you didn't trust prophets who say that all our problems would be solved if we fired a few dozen thousand people employed by the state administration. Well, I think it's one populist mantra because no one even claims that all problems will be solved if people are fired. Rationalisation and reduction of the state administration does not necessarily mean firing people, but absolutely requires an effective state apparatus. I am in principle in favour of the idea of publishing the registers of state and local officials and subsistence, in terms of transparency of spending of budget money. If there is a defence register, if there are lists of white, black, list of shame, list of failures, then it would be good to have a register of this kind that will simply show all the transparency and potential and human and qualification potential that Croatia has at the level of state administration. And in the end, I was talking about the state I see him in this year 2014, and the Financial Times doesn't see it any better. Croatia inherited it, it said, from the middle of this year, so from the 6th month of this year, Croatia inherited Greece at the recently infamous place of the EU's most economically non-functional countries. So, for the sixth year in a row, we have a recession, and I am absolutely going back to that first sentence from this presentation, and I am going back to what you said in the first sentences of your presentation that Croatia should not be in some defetistic mood or indifference, but all of what we are talking about today is just an argument that Croatia will be in this mood for a long time and in disheart, and that it is necessary to really take a lot more courage to solve the problem structurally in this country. And that is why we expect that next year, in your report on the government's results, you will show some better results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86474	On behalf of the Club of Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HGS colleague Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86475	Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. It seems as if everything has been said and little has been said about the speech of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. His report will certainly be much more debate here in the assembly because one listens to it and listens to it when someone talks, and the other is when it can be read. So I agree with everyone who objected that it would be much simpler if we had at least received that speech yesterday, that report so that we could see some details. So there'll be more time on different occasions, so I'll take my exposure to what seems most necessary and important to me, appreciating your time. I'll say something at first that I expected, which was logical. So, I expected that after the Prime Minister's speech, after his report, the report will bring together the clubs of the ruling parties, or parties of the ruling coalition as we can see, by the end of this debate will only be debated by a representative of the CNB, but interestingly, very interestingly, that the representatives of the SDP Club will not be in this debate and we will not hear it, or we will not hear it, which is quite unusual. Since the report is actually a matter of the Prime Minister's report for the past period, of course with projections for the future. So I note this as a sort of..., this is the second report such as this, but always so far in parliamentary practice if prime ministers came with some reports and if there was an important topic on the agenda, then there was never a discussion of the leading club, or party club of the leading party of any ruling coalition. What else did I expect? The announced Government's move on guidelines to the Council of Europe, i.e. the European Commission, since we are in the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister, you may not know, I have suggested that these guidelines, where they are proposed, are extremely important and many of these extremely difficult measures, discussions in the Croatian Parliament, so from the pension system, going to what the European Commission, or the Council of Europe, continue to insist, will leave as soon as possible at 67 years of age, resolving deficit issues, debt issues, etc., to discuss here. I repeat, this proposal might be simpler for the Government to discuss one single issue if it were possible for us to agree in Parliament, it would be much simpler for the government to discuss the next steps, because we have ahead of us a budget rebalance and we have a budget for next year. So, I also expected the Prime Minister's speech to announce the outline of the state budget's rebalancing and the announcement of the 2015 draft budget. And I certainly expected some of the announcements of the amendments to the electoral legislation and here in the Croatian Parliament, where there are several initiatives, and the fact is that the signing of the referendum on amendments to the constitution regarding electoral legislation has begun, but in a very wide range. So, I expected the Prime Minister to say at least a few things about this, saying of course about the government's views on these issues, because in a moment, of course, historically, we are entering the election year when the change of electoral legislation will no longer be possible. And I certainly expected at least a few sentences along with questions that are frequently appearing both in political space and in public regarding our participation in the anti-terrorist coalition because it is the impression that the public has learned from the source through the Great Bar, and it should have been learned from the source from Mark's square. So, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President, this is, when you look at it right now and you do it and you read it, it was still more of a report on a possible but uncertain future, of course with announcements that aren't bad, but it's still a uncertain future when it comes to all possible projects that can be realized, especially in the economy, and of course when it's put in the context of everything that the government has done so far in 3 years, then it's such a fear that any of these things that are announced can be realized, certainly realistic. So we've heard much, much less than what I think we should say, about events over the past year because somehow I'm experiencing this report and I understand it as some summary of the government's work over the past year, because according to the new Rules of Procedure, here's every time at the beginning of the fall session. So less about the present moment. What I absolutely agree with is the conclusion that, as the Prime Minister said, Croatia is a better and more stable country than it is popular to speak in Croatia today and that Croatia is an equal member of the EU and NATO alliance. That is true, it has been achieved by the efforts of all political forces, by the efforts of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but also by entering NATO and joining the EU are major jobs that were set before the government arrived. Of course, the members of the political party, members of today's ruling coalition, participated in this and were the last and two major consensus, but the fact is that it was the past and that the government had received negotiations to join the EU, this government and therefore, the entry into the EU and the signed accession agreement as something that had come, I would say so and would have used that expression and that picture, was actually served on the plate and should have continued to work. But what I also agree with is that Croatia remains, ladies and gentlemen, a deeply divided country. From last report to today from last September to today, it seems to me that in some segments more divided than it was. Here is an example, the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia on a referendum to amend the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. Today, the Constitutional Court's decision of many in Croatia interprets everyone in its own way, exempts from that Constitutional Court decision and from its argument that at which political moment it is appropriate for him. And of course I don't think that's why it's the government's fault, but the government has shown insufficient skills in the implementation, so here's the law, that's the lack of skill in moments, I'm going back to last year when it was necessary to understand that the Vukovar needs to go in a different way and that little steps should be taken in Vukovar, but constantly gathering people. The announcements for Vukovar on November 18th of this year are not good, I am saying so in the context of a finding that I agree that Croatia is still a divided country. The announcements ladies and gentlemen are not good, we in Vukovar are about to go here practically in a few days, the 18th November is relatively fast. This will, of course, fall all in the wake of the election campaign for the president's election, and I am sure there are few who would like to be divided into Vukovar and the other into not Vukovar Croatia. And that's something we need to talk about. There is always the highest responsibility of the current government for each situation. I am saying this because I remember those moments in 2010 when we had to stop negotiations to join the EU because we had to change the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia necessarily because, among other things, we had to strengthen the additional position of the CNB, the State Judicial Council, the State Attorney's Council, the DORH, the USOK, etc. with all the other jobs that have to be done. And when, on behalf of the government, I called the opposition chief at the time for the talks to be agreed because only the common forces we could change the Constitution and when we finally found ourselves I remember as today that Mr. Milanovic, today the Prime Minister, told one truth, if we fail because I said let's come to an agreement, we have to change the Constitution because we can't finish negotiations, we can't go on, and you told Mr. Milanovic then the truth, that but you'll be responsible for it, so you'll be responsible as a government and you'll be responsible as Prime Minister and that's the case, that's true. So those who run the government and those who are in power always have to invest more and more energy, show more power and absolutely more courage to solve problems, not to put under the carpet. That's what I say when I talk about events in Vukovar. Amendments to electoral legislation continue to stand in the same place. The question is what will happen if enough lists are collected to call a referendum for amending the Constitution, again to amend the Constitution concerning electoral legislation. We're going to get a new crisis because if the rulings try to ignore the collected signatures, we're going to have huge problems, they're going to be in a new crisis, new problems, new protests, new dissatisfaction. So let's go and I'm saying this now because I am also a signator of a package of electoral laws that are in the procedure, let's sit down and let's try to agree, of course, with the conclusion that no matter what we change in the electoral legislation or possible in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia about the referendum, this will not apply to the collection of signatures or the collected signatures for this referendum because these apply to the rules currently in force. The economy and investment potential remain extremely weak. Unemployment is that the good news has fallen, and it needs to be looked at in autumn and winter, it is possible that it will grow, in fact it is safe. The foreign policy of this government has been unfortunately since the entry into the EU, so I would say almost uninterested, invisible, without passion and without ideas, and sometimes it seems to me that it is just a detachment of the fact that we are a member of the EU. The Prime Minister said in his speech that we have no ambition to be the leader of the region, I must admit that I am very surprised. We must have the ambition to be the leader of the region because we are, of course, when we talk about Southeast Europe, we have that potential. Of course, our ambition must be and become perhaps involved in the work of a more urban group where we have already participated in energy independence during the negotiations, so we must try to find ways to be absolutely visible. As if we are not fully aware that we are 28 members of the EU, fully equal, that we will be asked in negotiations, for example, for Serbia's entry into the EU, that we must have a clear, firm position that is also related to the Croatian Parliament Declaration that we will not put any bilateral issue as an obstacle to the entry and negotiations of our neighbours, but that we will also have to ask that all must pass the path, including Serbia, at least as we have passed with very strict rules, especially on war crimes trials and particularly on respect for human rights. And in the end, unfortunately, I have to find out that there was nothing I would call defeating the reform. First of all, I'll just say this last example that seems to me best, so the government went with the announcement and it happened to me because it was also in the government program before this government, the economic recovery program for outsourcing, so it was in our government's programme, the previous government, the government announced it, it announced a 700 million savings, then slowly gave up, then it went on something called spin off, so now it's in the house, that at the end of that reform the lady and gentlemen remained virtually nothing. Because the purpose of reform is, on the one hand, to change the way you behave, the way you work, and, of course, in a difficult situation like this, to save money. And finally, I want to say that we have not heard anything about any possible hints, and this was expected precisely from this government which, of course, I do not agree with all those who are saying that this would be an unnatural and anti-Croatian government because it was chosen by the Croatian people, citizens and the civil Republic of Croatia, of course, it was chosen by the people but, well, then we can only talk about a capable or incompetent but not a national or non-national government. So none of any reform in the area of reduction of local administration and self-government means how, 429 municipalities 126 cities, counties, etc., none of which are completed, I remind you of the proposed changes to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And finally not only to be critical, of course I will support that part of the Prime Minister's speech that spoke about fighting for the rule of law and fighting for tolerance against every form of hate. Of course, this should be the task of every representative and every MP, every politician and every politician, and especially members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86476	We have two notices. The 76th session of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget will be held today at the session session session in the Hall of 133 and the 29th session of the Committee on Gender Equality today at 16:00 in Josip Jelačić's hall. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, a colleague of Vice-President Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86477	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Before I take a brief look at the report, it would not be bad to recall that this assembly's assembly through the amendments to the Rules of Procedure allowed the Prime Minister to give an annual report, before that, there was no report in our Rules of Procedure. What might be one suggestion, which is quite theoretically possible, may be very difficult, when we talk and when we discuss the report of logic, is to say what happened and to turn forward, or at the moment what is now. However, all of us in these 2.5 years are also participants in the debate on many legal proposals that we have come up with, obviously, that our memory is not very good, we forget. We usually forget what's good because it's considered normal, it's supposed to be. And mostly we refer to those maybe negative aspects. Also, if a qualified non-political debate could be considered, it would be good to remember what this coalition government found, I will start with 2012, what was the situation in the sectors, by certain social segments, so to speak. That we've lived beyond our means for years, we have. That we've borrowed expensive and often needlessly, and that's the same fact. Of course, it all comes a little bit on the charge. Both automation in a way and paralyzes the state in the successful handling of everything with effects of almost 5-year global economic crisis and there is stagnation. Just as it is not a new fact that Croatia can no longer function in a way that we have not earned, all of this is not unknown, but obviously we forget, and in this sense it is my suggestion that you, Prime Minister, Minister and also we colleagues and colleagues do not forget it, but it is also doing the truth and doing the facts on us and the responsibility to tell citizens more often not as an alibi but simply as the truth. But what is the fact that this government has well managed to change the way the state works and, of course, state finances, especially when it was not the most popular and when measures and moves that were needed in the public and the wider ones were not well received. That expectations at the beginning of the term of office were great yes. And you can see that from the debate of a large number of opposition colleagues and colleagues. Perhaps even those expectations were too high on both our part and theirs. On the one hand, it's good to have ambitions, to want to be better, to do more, on the other hand, we're aware of both certain and political risks. This government has done a lot in the year behind us, which since the start of the mandate but always remains the question of whether we could have done better and more. However, I would now look back, given the shortness of time and several moves of this government that deserve objective valorisation and positive, of course. Some of these processes have been launched before or at the very beginning of the mandate, but certain procedures and reforms are not something that is brought or determined and implemented at once overnight, but are processes that are not simple and unilateral, but are taking place. They started, they last today, it'll last tomorrow, and it'll last for the next few years. Some of the things this government has done, initiated, have not been done by so far by any government. Whether she didn't want to, whether she didn't know or simply didn't have the strength to do it. Among such problems, it was already mentioned, and shipbuilding. Furthermore, this government is creating the basis for Croatia's transformation into an important energy hub. Croatia is positioned on Europe's energy map, and only the arrival of the world's most powerful energy companies in our country should be seen in the light of the creation of a new European geopolitical and energy strategy in which Croatia will play a very important strategic role. In this context, it should be noted that the government first launched major research projects in energy. All these also meet the preconditions for a long-term and stable supply of energy to our country's citizens and energy independence. Soon before us will be mentioned here, the Industrial Strategy, a capital document which so far has not been able to define any of the governments so far, including certain industries as employees, as exporters and as economic growth factors. Moreover, unlike those who have sold Croatian interests and national interests, it is evident that despite the enormous pressures of the financially powerful foreign lobby members of this government through the INA-MOL negotiation process, the INA-MOL struggles to protect not only the interests of the INA but also national interests, and we also remember what they did, as well as how some other and previous governments did. However, as most of the action takes place in politics on the issue of improving and facilitating the living conditions of citizens on whom there has been a lot of talk in this debate today, there is a question of legalisation of illegally built objects. Legal changes have also simplified the process of building which certainly facilitates and business for investors. Clearly, investment needs to create preconditions for this. A legislative framework on the Investment Encouragement Act, the Strategic Investment Act and a set of other acts has been set up to facilitate business for all investors. There is a strengthening of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, HAMAG, i.e. part of the funds to help entrepreneurs through different programmes. Where the government has proved to be effective are the crisis situations that have been discussed today, which have occurred due to the rarely seen floods in our areas, and where the government has helped the population of flooded areas as quickly as possible, thus creating the legal framework needed to rebuild the family homes. The success of a government is not just measured by the internal political plan. In this respect, positive valorisation deserves the government's efforts to launch economic diplomacy and the successful coordination of European affairs, helping the Republic of Croatia to become more painlessly involved in integration, such as the European Union, which brings major changes to the state, but also to our citizens. What I would especially like to highlight and welcome is certainly subsidising the transportation of high school students. Let us not forget, I will present some information from the Varazdin County area, a project that we launched in 2005 without then central government support. Statistical indicators suggest that the number of children who continued high school education increased by as much as 30%. The previous government first co-financed one part, so it gave up the whole project. We have continued from the local regional level, this government has recognised the importance of investment in youth, investment in knowledge and if at least half of the impact in Varazdin County can be achieved by this transport subsidy project, each kuna is invested directly in the transport of a better education structure and better competitiveness of our young generation. As for cultural policy, a number of innovative shifts should be highlighted, from the introduction of a new way of managing cultural institutions, artistic production to the possibility of years of funding projects, publishing registers of cultural goods and adopting a strategy for digitalisation of cultural heritage. What this government has been extremely consistent with is the area of human and civil rights and freedom. In doing so, the number is one unfettered commitment and a non-deviation from the existing Croatian legislation guaranteeing standards for the protection of all rights of national minorities, and that is certainly the most commendable part. Life partnership laws, laws on medically assisted fertilisation, with regard to civil liberties, aim to allow for better control and civilian supervision of measures of secret data collection carried out by police, which so far did not exist. All of this was not simply in an environment that systematically, which systematically built certain individual structures under cover of various excuses, which sought to achieve their political goals by manipulating not only the media space but also the manipulation of citizens' will. In this respect, in this brief report, certainly that the Croatian People's Party - Liberal Democrats will support the government's work and in this part of what the Prime Minister has reported and what is waiting for us in the future, and for us colleagues and colleagues, I will repeat once again I am not one of those who is turning backwards, but from time to time it is not bad to remember what happened, how it was, and I believe that we will succeed on some key topics. Let us remove politics and small particular interests, engage and change Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86478	And the final presentation of Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86479	Honorable MPs and MPs. In preparation for the speech, I was thinking maybe there's too many numbers. They're mostly famous, so I haven't told anyone who's following those numbers and doing their job. In fact, you all know that. The head of the opposition, or HDZ, has outdone me. He spoke as head of the Statistical Institute but in the Soviet Union. Some numbers are correct, many are not true at all. They're simply made up and fabricated. And if I could afford something like that, I wouldn't be able to do anything else for two weeks, but answer the questions why I did it. But that's the difference between the way we do our job and the way we're treated by the public, so by strict criteria and the ones that aren't. To those who can tell, to do, to say anything, and to bear little or no consequences. And that's something you have to deal with in your life, because if that's frustrating, then you're not going anywhere. This performance is the second time in a row and I believe it will be a permanent practice for the Prime Minister or the Prime Minister, so the head of the executive authority responsible for practically all too much in this country to address both the public and the Croatian Parliament. Those who didn't want to, and before, they wanted to read nothing, let's say the American Constitution, so let's see what's out there about the way the President of the United States speaks to Congress, and I don't want it to be understood as pretentious. So the American president is the American president, the Croatian prime minister is the Croatian prime minister. However, the Croatian prime minister and the Croatian government are responsible for much more in their country's life than the US president. America, or the United States, is a Federation in which the government is practically at the level of state and local self-government, and in Washington very little. In the U.S. Congress, the president and only the president and no one but the president speaks, and the head of the opposition if he wants to hold a press conference. In the Croatian Parliament, except for the Prime Minister who has to talk about a whole series of figures and things he's responsible for, and the American president doesn't answer all the club representatives, and those who represent three MPs and who came after the election are the most eligible and after the election results can speak for 20 minutes. I'd be honest about some people talking for more than 20 minutes, an hour, because when I listen to them, I think I'm making a political profit. But that's my maybe a little bit of an entrenched remark. So compare yourself with others, compare ourselves with others, and try to accept the fact that what we're doing next year in a row is better than what we've done because we haven't done anything before, and we haven't done anything because we didn't want to talk. I don't have that problem. That's why I suggested, I just suggested no details, no precision of what's going on here. If you want a 15-hour debate with 100 replicas, I don't think this is just the way it's supposed to be. So, look at what this looks like in democracies that are bigger and older than us and that are hierarchical and strictly arranged. Here we are, I sat patiently here. It's not like he's been hard on me for hours and he's been listening to what people and my colleagues have been saying, because I'm also a parliamentary representative, actually, who they've been talking to. Well, they don't care what I said in my speech. They spoke to their audience, and I spoke to the nation. And the nation has a right to see what I said, everything I said publicly. I stand behind every beautiful or damn number. Behind the figure on the number of unemployment, behind the figure on the economic downturn, but also behind the figures that are important, such as the growth of the economy in the segment of industry. But stagnation in personal consumption is a matter of trust, a matter of faith in some immediate future. Here we try to change both by tax reliefs so that claims about the tax yoke that citizens are simply suffering are incorrect. So, the largest number of our citizens, I'm sorry that's the case, because that means that wages are too low, most of our citizens pay small or no taxes. Because, regardless of the average salary of 5 and a half thousand kuna, that's not a media salary. So a huge number of people have less than that and don't pay taxes and pay a little. But that's all we're trying to say in a way to get to the public. Of course you won't read what I said, because you don't care at all and of course all the numbers you know. You've had your chance as well as I have to speak to the Parliament, but also to the public. This isn't just a conversation with colleagues in the Parliament, this is a message from the public. And the public will recognize who is serious, responsible, who works with maximum effort and, as in that day, endless day, that is a grand hockey day, that is the day of the scroll that Mrs. Skare-Ozbolt spoke of, at the end of that day that endlessly repeats itself, at the end of the day ends and there is a future and it's quite beautiful. Look at that movie, when you mentioned it. So that's something I have in front of my eyes. The public will, of course, determine who has motives, who is frustrated, who speaks only out of anger and out of the stomach, and who speaks from the heart but also from the head. Because in the end it takes both and third and fourth. I still have a few things to mention here, after I've covered everything in my speech, and I don't think I've skipped anything or that bad thing. Of course, I won't speak of my government and myself as none of you in the blackest tones, but that I was critical of myself, that I said what didn't happen, that I said that the government before us was responsible, the party that led her to the Croatian court for corruption and robbery, I didn't say that, I don't say that now. It's God's fault. ... And when it comes to Sisak, thank you, I will respond to the words of the esteemed audience, so when it comes to Sisak I am against that refinery being closed, I am for it to work. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] I'm for Croatia to have three refineries. But look, when INA was sold and I didn't decide for good money and I didn't ask myself. When INA was delivered to God and asked what money and where he ended up and who financed the campaign, and who then ran the police and secret services, I never took part in it. Here, I ran the police then and the Secret Service, it's all my butter. So that's something we have, and unfortunately we have what we have. So we have a company that was sold or delivered to someone from abroad. We're trying to work it out. Thank you for your help, I mean the one from 2009. You're doing good. When it comes to... and that's important because a little bit of me, I'm a little sorry that some naive and some tend to fall for what they read on websites like State Department. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, what is not clear about Croatian participation in Syria? What are we involved with? Have you looked at that list that the State Department put there without any consultation on which almost all European countries and which the State Department needs because of their internal public relations. Well, that's what I'd do if I were them. The truth is a little different. So Croatia is solidarity with that, yes. The United States itself, as a rule, is fighting against something that I consider evil and I won't be afraid of some fear that someone will attack us now or that I don't know what they're going to do to us. We are a NATO member, because what is happening in the Middle East is a resident, inhuman evil and should be put in the way. And if I had the means, which I don't have, and if I had them, I'd be the first to have Americans, but I don't. So it's a decor. And there is Austria, a famous militant country. And Germany, and Finland, and Sweden and Belgium. So that's where the Americans listed everything. Has the Croatian government made any formal decision? It's not. How can we help out there? Therefore, do not fall for those who fall for you, and you who try to cloud the water continue to blur. Two very important issues, very important, before which Croatia trembles and kneels its knees. The electoral law never in the campaign, as one of the colleagues completely falsely said, has not spoken or promised any change. On the Croatian Election Law, I think it is easy to object to much, but it is as it is sustainable as it is, that there are much more unfair electoral laws in Europe, the British first, terribly unfair system, but that there should be one goal in front of the eyes, and that is the stability of the executive authority that such laws and such elections are giving birth to. Of course, assuming a certain representativeness and democracy of that law. Let's just say in Great Britain, he's gone. You can get 20% of the votes, your party, and you're not in Parliament because you haven't passed any election units. Let's adopt such a law. It's the preferred system. That's where the people in every constituency choose one person. Whoever gets the most votes goes by. There's no other circle. And so comes Parliament, in one day. Is there a more preferential system than that system? A fair, stable government has been here for 150 years. This is the first coalition since World War II. The advanced state, of course, is a democratic state where referendums are held at national level once every 100 years, and this Scottish state has been prepared for 3 years. Here's the English model. We want that model? Do we want a majority system? But we never talked about it. And I will accept the stoic all that is the result of our hollow constitution that I am not responsible for, and I do not consider myself responsible because for a year in this House there has been a proposal to amend the Constitution and to edit a referendum problem that we cannot adopt because of the obstruction of a party here. And I'm not asking her to adopt, but we'll all be able to bear the consequences together. My client, the SDP, at least. Some others more. Because it's not a referendum on preferential voting, it can, no problem. So it doesn't matter, to me, here I speak for my party that I represent anyway. It can, if it suits people, let it. We have had twice the preferential or preferred vote as the law says. For the first time, 20% of people responded to the election, the second time 25%. This makes one powerful average of 22% of the citizens who go to the elections offering a preferential vote. That's the data. So if it's so important for people to go out with 22% in the election to choose preferentially, I have nothing against it. I won't speak against anything else. You've read the referendum proposal, we can't stop it, so we can stop by changing the Constitution now and today. I find that such a change has been made, that it has passed the complete procedure and that it stands since New Year's Eve in the Parliament because someone didn't want to participate. We don't have to, I'm not suggesting it at all, I'm just saying that there is and that it is a will, and that if two-thirds of the MPs of this House stand behind them, maybe two of them who gave them the mandate. Or we'll watch how, I don't like to call it a street because it's not a street, how people who have their agendas and their plans... by voting against which I have nothing, are pushing proposals that have totally ten goals, but it's the Croatian Constitution and I will respect it to the extent that I respect it as Prime Minister. Whatever citizens decide at the referendum. Of course, we can do it differently tomorrow, but it requires courage some here didn't have, and it's going to get less and less because it's about their voters and their children, political. The reform of the local administration, we never spoke, and I will never talk about reform in the way that some here keep stressing, that we will abolish municipalities or counties. Countys are a constitutional category, municipalities, so I'm still waiting to be in Croatia, and I'm a lot in Croatia, I'm a lot of people, maybe less than the President of the Republic because I just can't, we don't have that time, but a lot, very much. I've never heard and seen anyone else stand up for abolishing the community they live in. Not in my yard or not in my backyard, not behind my house, just next door. Where do we go from here? Is there anyone here in this House whose community needs to be abolished? Here, you're not all here, but there's a lot of you. Well, typically, I've been asking that question for five years, every time I meet 50 or 300 people. That hand hasn't lit the air yet. There isn't. So we in a country where local self-government together with the county manages what is directly, which is indirectly through decentralised funds, with barely 10% public money, we are talking about the problem of local self-government. He is only present for me in terms of competence and what a single unit can and cannot do with its capacity. But that I would look and expect that some community that was founded in '93. I won't. That it will work according to its fiscal capacity, believe it goes to every authority, not just this one. But to talk about some kind of local self-government problem that has a minimum, which has a terrible little money, with much less money than Scotland, it's pointless, it's not a Croatian problem, it just needs to be done. Removal of the county, who has ever spoken out of these ranks or from these ranks? So it's not a topic at all. The electoral legislation, once again, we can have this and that, in the end, will be won by one who enjoys greater support in the people, in the political people. Whether people who otherwise could not, who represent a particular small political group, will get through that system by dropping the electoral quota, will you allow them to, that's up to you. I know this Parliament worked and it worked relatively compactly before, and it supported governments that did their job the way they did it. The alternative is that we have 50 parties in the Parliament and I believe that anyone who supports the referendum initiative is aware of that and that he wants to or may not want to or may not even read what it says on that paper that is longer than the program for car school. So long and complicated. There are concrete interests behind this, concrete intentions that I will not stand in the way at all because that is ultimately democracy. There's a democracy of the American type, a British who's very strict, very strict, Swiss who's even stricter, there's an Iraqi type, there's an Indian guy where they kill every other prime minister and Pakistani guy, and that's democracy, and that's what we're for? Which one's ours? So I'd like to order a meeting here, especially for my HDZ colleagues. It's your baby. My party, and now I'm going to say as party president, I have less problems with that. You could have Croatia so it doesn't have the next government, so the will of the citizens is something that's completely tormented and mauled and poured out. We could have that, but I will stand still and do my job, and when we went with the programme, when we spoke to the Croatian public, I want to stress this for the fifth time today we did not promise to amend the electoral legislation. We're not because I don't think that as good as it is, it's not bad, and the proverb says if it's not broken, don't fix it. Especially election laws. The electoral law that Croatia has, which may have a preferential system, but does not matter, colleagues and colleagues, it is completely irrelevant and that is not the aim of this referendum initiative, so this electoral system, I would like to remind you, is the result of the compromise of the two world-famous and the two policies of '99. A year. From the last months of HDZ and President Franjo Tudjman's life. ... There he is, he knows better. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, it was politically arranged, not traded, and no one attacked it at the time. Therefore, if that should change, let it change. If this is the most important thing of Croatian politics and society today, then it is the most important thing. I'll stand on this one completely, and now this one knows better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86480	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86481	Well, I wanted to call Madam Vice President because the speaker was talking about a subject that is not part of the agenda, and the other thing is that the gentleman is acting against the usual rules in the House and insulting MPs. This is now the best proof of it, I'm sorry that it is. And this whole debate shows how undemocratic the principle that you've introduced that the Prime Minister can speak without the possibility of a replica, without the possibility of any business that we're responding to a whole series of untrues and the insults he's now said. So, this is indeed an inappropriate case so far that the Prime Minister is protesting leaving the assembly after the reaction of a parliamentary club, and this will indeed enter the annals of inappropriate behaviour of the Executive Authority in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86482	It was not a breach of the Rules of Procedure because, in the final statement, the Prime Minister looked back on the debate that was being held. Among other things, there was talk about local self-government, and he didn't insult anyone. We will continue with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Government Act at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86483	Annual report by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the SDP, HNS, HSU, IDS and the independent representative of Furi Radin SDSS and national minorities, the following conclusion is hereby adopted. 2. The measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia are supported, as presented in the Annual Report of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the decision was made by a majority of 82 votes in favour, 32 against and 5 abstentions. My colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work. We will discuss - Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 700 Proposer of Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. The Honorable Minister of Management, Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86485	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is, therefore, a relatively small change of only two articles, or three articles. In one respect, given the new solutions, it is proposed to amend Article 25 on the affairs of the Committee on European Affairs, since issues relating to European affairs are carried out by the Coordination on European and Foreign Policy and the Interresor Working Group on European Affairs and it is proposed to establish the tasks of the Government in the context of European affairs and also for the sake of operationality in the implementation of EU rules, the draft law proposes to establish that the Government adopts implementing regulations and... acts of the EU, regulations and decisions if the implementation of these acts is not necessary. This issue has not been settled so far since the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU, and the application of EU rules should be subject to the same regulation. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86486	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first one came to the hearing was the Grubisic-Kain Club of Representatives. They're gone. They're losing the right to argue on this agenda point. On behalf of the HDZ club, the esteemed Gordan Jandrokovic appeared for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86487	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We have an seemingly routine point, a proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia which should regulate the issue of EU-related affairs with full Croatia's membership in the EU and two key topics that Minister Bauk stressed are key. One is the abolition of the EU Affairs Committee, and another is the treatment of the regulations that the European Commission adopts and which are directly applicable in all Member States, as well as in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, as regards the first issue, the first subject, the 2011 law, it was prescribed that the Government set up an EU Affairs Committee chaired by the Government and that the Committee is considering the issue, making decisions and other acts relating to the harmonisation of the Croatian legal system with the EU legal system and the harmonisation and validation of the position to be represented by representatives of the state administration body in the work of the EU institutions and bodies. In 2013, the government decided in June to set up an Interresor Working Group on European Affairs, which established the Interresor Working Group on European Affairs as an inter-resor working body with the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. So already, the day before Croatia's entry into the EU, there has been a change, and it is now the Interresor Working Group for European Affairs that has the task of the Committee on European Affairs. The seemingly logical change, perhaps it is good, will show time, for now it is too soon to talk about the final effects, but I would still like to point to one inconsistency and one mistake that was not needed to be made, could have started from 2011, so I would remind you that in 2011 and 2012, at the post of Deputy Prime Minister for European Affairs Mr. Neven Mimica. So, the whole system is designed then because of one person, he is not God knows how he came to life and now, but is working on this system for a certain time, so that these jobs are taken over by the Interresor Working Group for European Affairs. So I want to point out, to point out that this decision as it has been so far has been made for one man and has not shown God knows what meaning, it has now moved on to this second one that I say we still can't assess what the results will be and is that exactly the right model? My opinion and the opinion of the HDZ Representatives Club is that it may have been better to continue the work of the Committee on European Affairs, strengthen the role of vice-president in the government that would deal exclusively with European affairs and co-ordinate not only the part concerning European funds as the Vice-President of Greece does, but would treat the EU's problem as a whole taking account of new circumstances and, in a certain way, discharging both the prime minister and the foreign ministry from a very comprehensive, very demanding, very difficult EU issues. You've decided on this model, of course it's your decision, your right, and I repeat, time will show if you were right and whether it was the right way. I repeat, it is our opinion that it might be better to step up the Committee on European Affairs and that this function has actually been further strengthened in view of the great demands, the great weight, the great scale and complexity of the EU-related affairs. As far as these other issues are concerned, the proposal for a law proposes to establish that the Government adopts regulations on the implementation and takeover of legally binding EU acts, the Directive's regulation and decisions, if no law is necessary for the implementation of those acts. This issue has not been settled so far and from the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and the application of the European Union rules should be subject to the same regulation. So we've been in a legal vacuum so far, it's been improvised, the minister was actually making regulations that turned those regulations that came from the European Commission and they were then in some way becoming part of Croatian legislation, now the government is making a logical step, and given the narrowness of the view that I say one minister needs the government to act as a whole and that the regulation treats multilayerly not only from the position of one interested ministry. And that makes sense, and I think that's okay. However, I am asking one other question, the types of legislative acts brought by the European Commission, which is also the legislator on behalf of the Member States. There are three types of legislative acts for you. One Regulation and they have a general application, are binding in full and are directly applicable in all Member States. So when the European Commission adopts a regulation, it shall be implemented directly in the legislation of the Member States. There are other types of acts that are directives, they are the same binding with regard to the results to be achieved but each Member State to which this Directive is addressed may choose its own form and method of achieving that result. Therefore, the Directives are converted into laws and the regulations are directly applicable to the legislation of the Member States. So now I point out one danger I'm not even sure if everything here is in accordance with the Constitution and with Croatian laws. If the regulation becomes part of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia and does not go through the legislative body, so through the Croatian Parliament is there any constitutional dilemma, is there any problem there, it is a question to me for legal experts, for constitutional legal experts what to do in such situations. So I repeat the regulations adopted by the European Commission directly become part of Croatian legislation without any way having been declared by the Croatian Parliament, without any way going through the legislative body. We cannot, of course, influence the regulation because the European Commission is bringing it in and it is directly applicable. But I am not sure that it is fully in line with the Croatian Constitution, and even that democratically it is good enough that something that becomes part of the legislation does not go through the legislative body. This is not an attack on power, so I am really asking this as a question because I am not even sure what I should do at the moment and whether there may be a mechanism for at least sending the regulations adopted by the European Commission to the Croatian Parliament at least to information, whether it is possible for the Committee on European Affairs or whether it is necessary for each regulation to come to a plenary session. It's a question I think we need to get an answer from legal experts. And there's one more thing about it. If the regulations adopted by the European Commission only enter into force by a decision of the Government. How the average citizen will be an interested entrepreneur, e.g. find out that this Regulation has been adopted at all and that it has entered into force, whether through the national newspapers, whether through a web portal that has the European Commission where it publishes all the regulations and all the directives to be adopted. But let's try to transfer it to real life, so there's a regulation in the field of environmental protection. People dealing with environmental protection will not know that this regulation has been passed through monitoring legislative activities in the Assembly. They will only know that if they follow decisions from the Croatian government's session. And I think that we must then warn people whose life regulations mean that it is not enough just to follow the laws that are passed in the Croatian Parliament but that at the same time it is necessary to follow those regulations that are actually relevant for me to say so in the People's Dictionary, which is addressed by the Croatian Government to the European Commission. So here is one question that will need to be answered, and I would ask the representatives of the government and the minister to come out with a firm view about it and if it is necessary to consult once more the legal profession to see which model is the best and the most correct in view of the Croatian Constitution and Croatian laws. So here's those, those two elements. I repeat, the first decision to abolish the European Affairs Committee is the Government's decision. We in the Croatian Democratic Community think it would be better if this committee were strong, that it was strengthened both with staff and with experts and that the problem of the European Union through the person of the Deputy Prime Minister is being further strengthened. You've decided on another model it's legitimate but in our opinion this would be better. And as for these other regulations, I would also like to hear the opinion of legal experts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86488	Final Minister Arsen Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86489	So as far as this Article is concerned, The bill's proposal, therefore, is true that this solution in the House will be a little less legal than it would have been if it had not been for this solution. It is also argued, on the one hand, that the adoption of the rules still raises it to the level of the government, by adopting regulations and in the reasons it is also written in which case no laws would be passed, which means that it adopts regulations, that the Government adopts regulations for the implementation and adoption of legally binding acts of the European Union in those cases where no law is necessary for the implementation of those acts. This may, for example, be the determination of the competent authorities for the implementation of the regulations if the implementation issues are clearly related to the administrative area of the part-rounded bodies of certain laws, issues of technical nature and other issues for which no law is required. So, as far as the issues of constitutionality are concerned, this provision I think the law is not contrary to the Constitution because it explicitly excludes those regulations that need to be passed by law. Any regulation adopted by the Government by reference to this article may, as a result, be incompatible with the law and in accordance with the Constitution. This may be independent of whether such a legal solution is in force. And as for the proposal that the Committee on European Affairs, or the relevant parliamentary committee, informs of the regulation adopted, this may be the best solution at this time, so if it turns out well then it does not need to be returned to the old ones, so that it also has technical issues that de facto cannot be decided by the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86490	Thank you. We have a single replica reported. Dear Gordan Jandrokovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86491	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Just to make it clear to the colleagues in the Parliament, but also to the Croatian public that it is different types of legislative acts. The regulation practically has the power of the law, the regulation is also a law, as is the law that was implemented by the Directive. We cannot amend that regulation, it is signed by a contract and this applies to all the Member States of the European Union. When the European Commission adopts a regulation it becomes part of the legislation, there is therefore no other regulation under which we can pass a law of some kind or not. As it is written, the regulation is transposed into Croatian legislation, and the directive has the possibility and it is necessary to actually transform it into a law. So there are no regulations that are not laws and now the key question is whether it is possible, is it in accordance with the Constitution that there are laws in the Republic of Croatia that have not been discussed by the legislative body or the Croatian Parliament. It's a new question, it's a new problem that I don't know if we sitting here can give a precise answer. Maybe the same question even for the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86492	Minister Bauk responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86493	Well, here's a little bit. As regards the dilemma about the constitutionality of this article, it is removed by saying that if it is necessary to pass the law it will be passed law, this Article of the Regulation will not apply. And the Government Regulation, not a regulation of the European Commission, which would eventually be adopted by the basis of that article, would be wrongly and unconstitutional, would be now. Therefore, that part does not change the status of government regulations in relation to European Commission regulations. As regards what should be adopted by the Croatian Parliament, which should be adopted by the Croatian Parliament under the current solution, and according to the new ones should not be, this should not be disputed because it is technical issues which have been resolved by the other law on the delineation of ministries, etc. For example, I remember one debate from the implementation of the regulation of the Department of Administration's section where we set out in one case the Ministry of Regional Development, in another case the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, to carry out these tasks because their work could not be determined that they were so, and we made a special law binding on them. That'll be in the future. Therefore, there is a bigger issue of transparency, and I agree with you that we should consider making it easier for citizens to monitor such activities, and in that sense we will probably listen to your recommendation as well, either to the conclusion of the Parliament or to the conclusion of the Government or to the decision of the parliamentary body to oblige the Government to inform the Assembly body. I think that's the best solution. So if it turns out we need to get everything back on track, then we're gonna do it, it's not a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86494	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 700. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. 87 votes in favour, 7 votes against and 22 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86497	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Commission therefore concludes that the The Constitution is prescribed that the Croatian Parliament may, for a period of no more than one year, authorise the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from its part-line, except those relating to the development of the Constitution of established human rights and fundamental freedoms, national rights, electoral system, structure, detour and way of working of state bodies and local self-government. And it is also a restriction that the regulations cannot act backwards and that they cease to apply within the deadline of one year from the date of the power received, unless the Croatian Parliament decides otherwise. This law is traditionally passed every year at the beginning of the autumn session, so we continue this tradition this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86498	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. On behalf of the Croatian Labourists, the esteemed Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86499	Thank you, dear fellow Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Minister. This is about eight times that I will repeat that we believe that such a law which gives the Government the right to regulate any legislative matter does not take so long until there is a written right in the Rules of Procedure that the Government may request the President of the Parliament to convene a session whenever there is a need for it, either by court or by the Government's position. So neither summer nor winter break is a concrete plate in terms of the possibility of intervention in laws by the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government and I hope you all know about this provision. And every year we make a proposal for a law of similar content and every year the government uses its right to intervene with regulations. This time in the bill, it may not be the first time, but I have noticed for the first time that this law extends the importance of the validity of the regulations that have been passed under the previous law. Therefore, it states that the regulations adopted under the 2013 law and applicable on the date of entry into force of this law remain in force and until 31 December 2014 at the latest. In practice, this law extends the period of application of the regulations under the old law on which the Government intervened in regulations. The law on the provision of services in tourism, as regards inspections, the law on the heat market, who will be the distributor. The law on support for agriculture and rural development in relation to the competent authority if I am not mistaken and yet another is the same from tourism or catering as the first one to be a catering activity. The first and second were delivered on July 23rd, 8 days after the regular session of the Parliament. One in 8 months, and this last one was adopted on September 4th just before the start of the session, the fall part of the Assembly session. Even from the one of July that the government intervened in the law, it was not enough for the government to prepare a bill, correct errors of the wrong, unclear definitions of the law, and thus remove the need for the existence of a regulation, but instead extend the validity of those regulations by the end of this year. And final. How is it that, for such matters, the Technical-Birocrat Government is flattered by the regulations to be resolved after the meeting of the Assembly a few days before the start of the meeting of the Parliament. And when it comes to solving some big problem for a single man, and it's not one, it's tens and hundreds, and let's just say the right of citizens to get the original cure if they want to pay for it. Let me explain. If for some diagnosis according to our standards it is prescribed that the patient has the right to a generic drug, and he wants the original one cannot pay the difference and get the original one because it is described in the law. And then the state bureaucracy proudly told the public that the amendments to the law would be proposed within six months. Within six months, he will propose amendments to the law. I am very interested in whether, if it had happened in 7 and 8 months, the government would then have responded to the regulation, and had the law's illogicalness improved and made it possible for the citizens to do so. So it's not even about the lack of a new cost for a state or health budget, but it has improved one of the illogicalities of the law that we have adopted here in the Parliament. And in the last eight years, I have not encountered any regulations in which the government intervened in laws during the Parliament's non-session and removed social injustices created by law, unsettled law or bad law. The regulation never intervened to go into such things. If that right already exists, then why does the Government not use it, but calls for a regular procedure and imagine it within 6 months will propose the law. These are the reasons why we will not support the adoption of this law, because we consider it simply unnecessary, and even if it did not exist, I would force the ministries to prepare better laws first, other perceived shortcomings are being removed in the ordinary legislative procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86500	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, the respected Davor Milicevic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86501	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. This proposal for a law that lies before us is a law governing the powers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to make exceptional decisions during a certain period of time on certain issues, which must be passed through plenary sessions of the Croatian Parliament. The previous Regulation shall cease to apply on 1 October 2014. The proposed law of power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section of the Croatian Parliament provides for a new deadline for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to be able to make decisions during the period when the Croatian Parliament does not meet, or when it has a break. In accordance with Article 79(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission is to adopt The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is prescribed to meet regularly twice a year – the first time between 15 January and 15 July and the second time between 15 July and 15 September. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has the powers under this Act only during the period from 15 December 2014 to 15 January 2015 and from 15 July to 15 September 2015. Since it is practically a law which is the technical nature of the HDZ club will, of course, support the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86502	Thank you. In the name of the HNS Club, the respected Goran Beus Richembergh will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86503	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So there's an eighth edition of a law that we almost routinely pass every year. In some ways or indirectly acknowledging that the existing constitutional provision for a stay in the meeting of the Croatian Parliament is actually not an adequate and coherent framework in which all regulations can be passed. I would like to remind you that just about the end of last year, the Croatian People's Party is in the process of drafting the draft amendments and additions to the Constitution, which were current until about the end of last year and which are actually still on the table for discussion in this House of Commons, has proposed that the institution of constitutional breaks be abolished. We hold that he is completely unnecessary and that responsibility for calling the meetings of the Croatian Parliament should be constantly with the President of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, according to the needs required by the dynamics of the adoption of laws and other acts for which the Croatian Parliament is responsible under the Constitution, the sessions themselves would be held. So they would be called together whenever they needed to, and whenever conditions were created for it, regardless of what time is and what date it is. This would simply remove the formal reason why part of the public is looking at the activities of the Croatian Parliament with due regard to the fact that the existing constitutional provision, which is not since yesterday, has been possible since the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, actually allows so-called. long breaks, double vacations to the parliamentary deputies. The time when the Institute of Pauses, i.e. constitutional breaks in the work of the Croatian Parliament, ceases and the reason for the adoption of the law, which would allow the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section of the Regulations. As far as we're concerned, may this be the last time we've passed a law like this, but the prerequisite for this is to seriously discuss one more set of issues that are covered by the draft amendments and addition of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Even today, the prime minister has called for a consensus and agreement on this issue, because it is too important not because of what we are talking about today and now, but a whole series of other more important issues. And here is another incentive to consider reaching a high level of understanding and consensus on the adoption of constitutional changes in this House of Commons in this term. The text of the law as proposed is not disputed. It really refers to a short period, and we even think that there were several situations in which the government could and should have used these powers at the time of the Constitution for a session of the Croatian Parliament, but it did not do so but left it to the regular procedure to resolve some issues that might have been needed to have a sharper assessment of shorter deadlines and a faster response. Therefore, the HNS club will support the proposal of the Law on the Authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86504	Thank you. And on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, Drazenko Pandek will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86505	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Thus, this law empowers the government to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section. What's it called in theory, and that's what it's called, so that's what it's called. the disturbance of jurisdiction between legislative and executive bodies, in this case the Government, on the basis of the powers of the legislator itself and as provided for in the Constitution, Article 88. Therefore, the possibility of such a disturbance of jurisdiction is given and it is prescribed that the Council may authorise the Government, for a maximum period of one year, to regulate certain issues in its area with those restrictions. The constitutional provision also allows for the Croatian Parliament to extend the period of validity of those regulations adopted on the basis of that legal authority and for more than a year. The adoption of this law has become an established practice because of the need for individual issues of regulation which fall within the competence of the legislative body to be regulated extremely urgently at a time when the Croatian Parliament is unable to carry out its task of regulation, i.e. to do the norms because they do not regularly ambush. The extension of powers and these legislative delegations is regular every year and is a common practice of the Croatian Parliament. Whether it will change in the future depends on us most on us here, but for now there have been no practice of any major problems or greater discussion between parliamentary deputies on this issue. Therefore, as this bill proposes to extend the validity of the regulations adopted by the Government under the law, it may well be necessary to refer to the content of those Regulations. So, by supplementing the law on gambling, companies that already have the approval of gambling on machines are thus extended their right until 31 December of this year. Furthermore, the Amending Law of residence also extends certain deadlines laid down in that law from one year to two years because of the needs clearly observed in practice. In addition, the Regulation amending the Health Protection Act supplementes healthcare professionals who carry out private practice on the basis of the lease provided for in Article 215 of that Law provides that they stop working in private practice by renting at the latest on 31 December of this year. The Regulation amending the Household Activity Act confers power on the tourist inspector to prohibit the decision from further carrying out the catering activities or the provision of catering services in the part in which they are provided contrary to the decision of the competent authority. That I do not now list further details of the other regulations, more or less, it is evident that the regulations that have been adopted in accordance with the power, that these are areas and situations that required intervention and, above all, technical matters necessary for the functioning of the system, so it was not some essential political matter that would be essential in the jurisdiction of this Parliament, although this law is even made possible. In view of this, as well as the justified need to extend the period of validity of these Regulations and that during the time when Parliament does not meet under the current regulation, and how we will continue to decide on us and the most about the amendments to the Constitution, which has proved to be neither a simple nor an easy process in this House, the aim is to enable the regulation of such and other similar issues and will therefore support the SDP's proposal of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86506	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. The final proposal of the Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the part of the Croatian Parliament, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 699. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia after the deadline set for the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 199 of the Treaty on the I am giving the Rules of Procedure the motion to discuss and decide the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that by a majority of votes, 100 votes in favour, 8 against and 7 abstentions, we have accepted the proposal to discuss and decide on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I ask the President of the Proposer to explain the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Mr. Arsen Bauk will do so. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86508	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Regulation supplementing the Agricultural and Rural Development Act provides that certain rural development measures will be implemented prior to the approval of the Rural Development Programme by the European Commission. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The final draft law proposes that the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under the Law on power to regulate certain issues in the part of the Croatian Parliament which are valid at the date of entry into force of the final draft of the law remain in force until 31 December 2014. The Rural Development Programme of the Republic of Croatia was officially sent to the European Commission on 16 July 2014. The approval process shall include data update, further explanation and analysis in accordance with the requirements and comments of the European Commission which are yet to be followed. The approval procedure shall also include the coordination of the rural development programme with implementing and delegated acts of which some are still in the process of adoption. It is therefore clear that the approval of the rural development programme of the Republic of Croatia from 2014 to 2020 by the European Commission will not follow until 31 December 2014 and at the same time cannot be provided for the correct date of authorisation by the European Commission. In order to allow the implementation of certain measures under the rural development programme of the Republic of Croatia to continue uninterrupted until 2020 in 2015, by the basis of the Regulation supplementing the Agricultural and Rural Development Support Act, it is proposed to adopt amendments in order to ensure that this Regulation applies until 30 June 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86509	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. So we will vote on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. The amendment was accepted by 90 votes to 12 against and 10 abstentions. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that, most of the votes of 98 votes in favour, 7 against and 9 abstentions, we have adopted the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia's power to regulate certain issues in the Croatian Parliament's section in the text, as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendment adopted. We will now skip the point Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the System of State Administration and move to point 5, that is - Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the City of Zagreb, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 701 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government and the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Minister of Administration, the Honorable Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86511	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A minor amendment to the Law on the City of Zagreb is proposed in several articles. I'm going to say very briefly what this is about. Therefore, Article 1 and Article 8 defines that the mayor of the city of Zagreb performs his duties as representative of the state administration's office and deletes this section concerning the units of regional and regional self-government because the city of Zagreb is under the Constitution of the regional self-government units, and thus enables other laws to regulate the establishment of other public administration offices, regardless of whether this will happen. It is also defined in Article 2. that one of the directors of the administrative bodies of the city of Zagreb who perform only the tasks of the state administration are co-ordinators, i.e. the affairs of the state administration for the territory of Zagreb. Furthermore, Articles 4 and 5 of the Law harmonizes the name of the law electing city representatives, mayor and deputy mayors, called the Law on Local Elections, i.e. the Law governing local elections because we changed such a law in 2012. Article 6 shall also harmonize the way in which the mayor and his deputies are appointed with the Law on Local Self-Government. Article 3 also defines that members of the representative body, i.e. members of the city assembly, have been city representatives for a long time, which is off the record, which is a business benefit in the Zagreb City Assembly, and has introduced him to remind us, to remind him, the former president of the Zagreb City Assembly and former president of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Boris Šprem, and in some ways this article is a memory of his colleague Šprem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86512	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed Igor Coleman will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86513	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, respected ministers with a co-worker. Therefore, it is indeed a matter of harmonising with the proposal of the Law on the System of State Administration. It's a shame we didn't get a chance to discuss this law today because it seems like a good law, but I guess that'll be a turn eventually. Here, when it comes to the city of Zagreb, it is primarily about the role and way of determining the coordinator of the business of the state administration for the city of Zagreb, because, as we know, it is entrusted to the authorities of the administration of the city of Zagreb. And a few other coordinations that the minister was talking about, and I really don't need to repeat them. There is, of course, nothing questionable for the HNS club in this bill, and we will be happy to support the bill. What is controversial and what I would like to talk about on behalf of the club for two, three minutes is when we talk about entrusting the affairs of the state administration of the city of Zagreb, the question that is raised whether the administration of the city of Zagreb is also able to do the jobs of the city administration? And I'm afraid the answer to that question is no. One big, one big, no big. The city of Zagreb as the largest and capital of the Republic of Croatia should be the bearer of the development of the entire country, and instead we now have an isolated island that does not benefit either the Government programmes available or the EU programmes. Another thing that should certainly be done is to make changes to the laws because the units of the regional self-government in the city of Zagreb, the city district and local committees, I remind you, the city of Zagreb has 17 urban districts, mine, Maksimir, has residents like the city of Sibenik, and the powers of zero, budgets zero. Any decision must be asked by the city administration, at least. The city of Zagreb is, unfortunately, a hybrid between the city and the county and, among other things, the consequence is that the mayor of Zagreb has a huge budget on his own, and part of this money through the budget story and in other ways is completely self-involved and without any criteria, setting out how it fits, and let's say that the taxpayers in the city of Zagreb pay for organising the referendum initiatives of individual citizens, so on. Civil society that we now have to see in action these days, again. I've already said everything I had to say about that referendum in this House last time. At the same time as it happens to the citizens of the city of Zagreb, it threatens to increase the cut. The city of Zagreb has an 18% cut, the largest cut in the Republic of Croatia. I ask you colleagues and colleagues here who are mayors or mayors what would your fellow citizens and fellow citizens do to you to come to them with a 18% cut proposal and how long later would you be mayors and mayors of your municipalities and cities? In addition to this biggest tributary, we have services that are most expensive in the country and are constantly increasing prices and the next is likely to pay for the fresh air because whoever can't pay for the fresh air should not live in Zagreb. So this will probably be an argument analogous to some other reasons in the past. Only the citizens of the city of Zagreb cannot apply to the programmes of subsidising the energy restoration of family homes. So this is a programme by the Government of the Republic of Croatia that can subsidise the energy reconstruction of the family home, citizens of the city of Zagreb because of the inability of the city administration do not have the opportunity to apply for these programmes. Fortunately, the Ministry of Construction will solve this problem, but not thanks to the city administration, but against the city administration of Zagreb. We still don't have a waste management and management strategy, we still don't have waste separation in the city of Zagreb, metropolis, white, clean, blue as we like to call it the city of Zagreb. But that's why we have the mayor's garden being arranged for taxpayers' money through the city's company. Holding the city of Zagreb is in debt to the throat and is constantly re-indebted and re-indebted, etc., etc., etc. And when we talk about this law and when we talk about the ability of the city of Zagreb to take over the business from the department of the state administration, then I ask again if the city of Zagreb is able to take over jobs from the city administration. And I'm giving the answer again isn't, isn't and can't be this way and this is how it's being run right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86514	We have a report of a respected colleague, Miss Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86515	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Coleman, here's what I'm hearing from you, and I'm just surprised. Now the mayor of the city of Zagreb, Mr. Bandic, went independently to the elections in this term that I have been thinking for two years now, and until now that we at the HDZ club have warned about the Holding that was returning to your coalition partner, who really got into debt misunderstood when we warned about all these problems, you were all here silent and everything was great and it was all fantastic and it was phenomenal because in the statement of the current prime minister, Mr. Milan Bandić was the best SDP could offer as mayor. I don't want to defend anyone, and I don't want to attack anyone, I'm just wondering in the public interest how as a politician and as a representative of that coalition, you could have kept your mouth shut for 8 or 10 years and said everything was great, and today you're saying it's nothing and it's no good?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86516	The replica matches the esteemed Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86517	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade twilight, it's a good thing you don't want to defend anyone because what would have happened if you'd defended him. As far as I and HNS have cared about me since I entered politics since I entered the HNS, which is almost half of my total life HNS has not been in coalition with Milan Bandic. A colleague of the twilight since 2002. Since then, colleagues of the twilight have been missing for 13 years, and as far as I know, we've always been and since then we've been the opposition, and since then we've been saying this the same thing I've been saying in the Croatian Parliament today. After all, you can check my personal statements and statements about Milan Bandić and the management of the city of Zagreb from the time I was a spokesman for the party, so it has been four years. Of course, I have no intention of defending anyone or my colleagues and colleagues from the SDP, and they know it themselves, but if my memory is not being deceived by Milan Bandic is not a member of the SDP for a long time, nor is the SDP in the city assembly in the coalition, nor does Milan Bandic support it, so I really don't see what this has to do with anything. What I have expressed are the facts and reflect not only my relationship with any personal mayor or anyone but reflect my concern that the city of Zagreb as a management unit is able to do some of the tasks that should be able to do and I fear that in the way it now works it is not able, I have said it and I keep thinking it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86518	On behalf of the SDP Club, the Honorable Drazenko Pandek will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86519	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, this law is more or less consistent with the proposed Law on the State Administration System with the already existing Law on Local Elections, and the Law on Local and Areaal and Regional Self-Government. In principle, there were neither objections nor objections from the opposition, nor could there be any particular objection, therefore, to this proposed text of the law. Of course, when we analyse it is difficult to expect in this provision where it is prescribed that the mayor can now perform the work and volunteer, it is difficult to expect that the mayor of Zagreb can do well in this activity. that executive function as a secondary activity or as a volunteer but therefore it is a matter of compliance with the Law on local and regional, regional self-government where such necessity is prescribed for all leaders at those levels. Clearly, it should be as a possibility in law, but practically it will probably stay and should remain a dead letter on paper. We welcome this term to introduce the name city representatives for the representatives of the city assembly, in fact, as usual law and applicable to both the public and the colloquial speech, and should certainly be supported as a memory of the president, the late President of the City Assembly Boris Šprem. In order to look at this debate on the changes of some who are really necessary in the current structure and way of functioning of the city of Zagreb as a unit of regional self-government, it is certainly necessary to have greater decentralisation compared to the councils of the city districts and the councils of local committees because it has been seen in practice that these units are difficult to operate, that they are almost absolutely limited, they have very little resources. For a time, the issue of financial resources that went towards city councils was increased, but it was again reduced to one small part of the total budget of the city of Zagreb, and absolutely those funds represent an insufficient cookie for the division of all urban districts to meet the needs, the real needs of residents in these areas. That is why we have a situation in particular in these border towns that the basic needs of citizens are not met. For example, in the city district where I come from, the Sesvets still have a place without water. Almost the whole ring doesn't have a problem with draining, sewering. And therefore, this problem is being added to the problem of the purifier in which we have a situation to charge for those funds, that water, that flow that is not realised and that is how the city of Zagreb loses significant financial resources. As a result, and in the future, here to look back on previous exhibitions will be necessary on the basis of a public debate and on the basis of the cooperation of the state authorities and bodies in the city of Zagreb will therefore have to go to further amendments to this law and supplementation of this law, but since this is not the case now, I would limit myself to that and, in any case, as I have said about the technical changes to this amendment and the additions should be supported. And I would like to join this appeal so that further amendments and additions to this law may be considered and taken that path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86520	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Boris Blazekovic has come forward, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86521	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As my predecessors, I would extend my debate more than just a proposal to supplement and amend the Law on the City of Zagreb because it is a rare opportunity to say more about the city of Zagreb which is extremely important for its citizens but not only for the citizens of the city of Zagreb but also for the whole of Croatia. It is about how to manage the city of Zagreb. The proposal itself to amend the law proposes more or less technical changes and certain harmonisations are carried out, but in my view much more significant changes to the Law on the City of Zagreb should be made much more significantly, more deeply, to be taken into the law itself. And I believe that in the city of Zagreb, significant changes in the way of management and very clear and real decentralisation are made. It is clear that the city of Zagreb should be spoken broadly and essentially. The city of Zagreb, in total by my deep conviction and knowledge, accounts for at least 60% of the intellectual, economic, cultural and development potential of the Republic of Croatia. And that is why Zagreb needs to be talked about and thought about in a completely different way, our approach but also our ambitions regarding Zagreb must be the most demanding, most ambitious and full right. According to my deep conviction, the city of Zagreb has been managed for decades by the verse, uninventional, unknowing, often contrary to common common sense, absoluteist, contrary to modern,... achievements based on professional ideas, projects and solutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The city of Zagreb is managed without understanding its potential, without agreement with the academic, professional public and therefore suffers from the citizens of Zagreb but also from all Croatian citizens. After these elections, we were hoping to see the list that won, the list of Mr Bandic who won the most votes in the city, i.e. a large number of votes in the city of Zagreb, that those people from public life who were more than professional and competent would make a significant contribution to changing the management of the city of Zagreb, but unfortunately we did not experience it. For my claims, I'll make only a few more general examples. The first example is Zagreb Holding. Zagreb Holding, a past-time mastodont who managed simply to suppress a large number of small businesses and craftsmen who competed in the free competition in Croatia's most profitable and largest market for goods and services. The establishment of Zagreb Holding managed... A positive entrepreneurship game and they've established themselves in... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the meaning of similar companies which are still under special arrangements and conditions doing jobs for the city of Zagreb, which is bad and harmful. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All of this as well as in all economic affairs where the country's involvement in any form has produced more expensive services to citizens and holding with a constant increase in debt, but which is much greater damage to bad decisions, bad solutions, bad projects, lack of resources, in the most obvious segments of infrastructure and utility services. For example. It is unimaginable that until today, the City of Zagreb has not made a decision and a solution to waste management and that until today in the City of Zagreb, the most competitive centre in Croatia is not separated and not recycled by waste, and a mountain of garbage in Jakushevec is growing and growing. Or it's amazing that for example. In the City of Zagreb there are still elementary schools that work in three or more shifts, there are not enough kindergartens, recreational school sport is barely held on the maimed and devastated playgrounds. The problem with urban business spaces can most be said by users or those who would like to use it. Or it is amazing that there are still households in the City of Zagreb that have no running water and are not connected to the sewer system in the 20th century. Roads, streets, footsteps, water and sewerage infrastructure, modern lighting, modern urban solutions that I don't even speak. In front of us because of the carelessness of the authorities in Zagreb, they are collapsing from the carelessness of cultural monuments, and that no one has ever exceeded the answer and that no one is responsible for it. And in the end, to complete these yet-to-be examples, it is enough to mention not debauchery but embarrassingly abandoned and dangerous by passersby by countless facades in the center of the city that are simply a paradigm of the way of managing the city. It is the impression that the City of Zagreb is an isolated, untouchable, autonomous territory of the Republic of Croatia and that it concerns only the elected mayor and that no one but the few representatives in the City Assembly of the City of Zagreb should nor should it be involved in the obviously unusually poor management of the City of Zagreb. All that seems in a somewhat allowing way in Zagreb is the merit of particularly tough and persistent individuals who despite their frequent efforts to obstruct them in their efforts of positive processes, these individuals manage to preserve this city with a large city. And the City of Zagreb itself is too big and too complicated a conglomerate of institutions, businesses, societies and people to be completely blocked and that in some individual initiatives it would not move forward, but it is not enough. The city of Zagreb needs a small, cheap, modern, newest technological achievements with an efficient public administration. Zagreb Holding should be abolished, as many private entrepreneurs as possible to participate in an equal match for all works and services in the city. All the potentials of the concentration of intellectual, economic, scientific, monetary and all other positive capacities that Zagreb has should be used. According to my deep conviction, Zagreb needs to be decentralised in a way that every city district is a municipality with its own self-government powers that all municipalities in Croatia today have. This should be done as soon as possible so that citizens in every city district can have much more autonomy and more influence to participate in the development of their district, the City of Zagreb and Croatia as a whole. All in all, the City of Zagreb requires a complete change in the way of self-management and the City of Zagreb must not be a prisoner of anyone's private interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86522	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club for five minutes, respected Sonja König.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86523	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of our Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. Here is the opportunity we want to point out once again on behalf of the HNS Club that Zagreb with the identity of the European metropolis must be and can be the generator of Croatia's development. This requires a more efficient urban administration, greater cooperation with other counties and, of course, a more comprehensive approach to the development strategy. The city with 21 city administration bodies, 328 city institutions, 17 city councils, 218 local committees need their synergy of action and transparency in governance because all these institutions make up people with huge potential, with a huge potential that is unfortunately not fully used for the time being. The city administration numbers 2774 employees. In Zagreb, 11049 people were employed, and 1702 council members were elected in the councils of city districts and local committees. A huge number of people with different skills and skills that, with synergy, communication and coordination can achieve a great deal, and for all this potential, it is necessary to draw up and adopt a plan for the development and promotion of the human resources of the city administration and a clear system of rewarding the results achieved. Zagreb should therefore be drawn up as soon as possible and adopted the Strategy for the development of human potentials. The work of all bodies, especially local self-government, needs to be coordinated. This is usually the job and task of the local self-government service that has been working for a long time, but unfortunately there are still misunderstandings, especially in the preparation and implementation of municipal actions. That's how it is, for example. A few months ago, a local committee in which this neighboring Mesnička street belongs has made a decision on setting up protective posts on one part of that street, and recently the entire street as we know it is reconstructed, and all these steps are, of course, removed in that procedure. And by doing so, thousands of kunas for something that could have been predicted and harmonised needlessly. That the effort was put into it, in fact, the double business, and we're not talking about it. Therefore, only better coordination of the work of the local self-government body can bring many savings, although these savings, or the spending of these funds, have relatively little impact on the local self-government, and the city can deny them almost any proposal contrary to the wishes of the inhabitants. On the other hand, the City of Zagreb only spends about 5 million kuna per year on local self-government premises. 5 million kuna on activities related to the use of local self-government. Some truths are often used for a wide variety of purposes, but some yaps are empty as they stare empty and many business spaces throughout our Zagreb. City property beside human potential is the largest city resource and represents a great potential for urban development. And a large number of strategic projects of the city can be realised precisely by rational, transparent and efficient use of city property. And the city, as we know, owns a huge property that's being used irrationally for the time being. And this is the opportunity when we speak in our Parliament about the city of Zagreb, to once again tell the mayor and the city administration of Zagreb, to publish a list of property on the websites and rent a business space for one kuna. Open that door, open the Zagrebs as the coat of arms of Zagreb points to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86524	On behalf of the HDZ Club, finally five minutes of respect for Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86525	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's one of the consequences of working with the agenda the way it shouldn't happen. The Law on the City of Zagreb is the consequence of the adoption of the Law on the System of State Administration, so at least it would be fair to first discuss the Law on the System of State Administration and then its consequences on the Law on the City of Zagreb. If you please, Zagreb deserved something better than this, not to be a collateral victim of regulation and then to fix some norms that have nothing to do with the basic regulation. The first is our complaint, but unfortunately as before without a valid response from our colleagues in the Assembly, there is not one reason we can imagine at all, let alone what is prescribed by the Rules of Procedure that this law with these norms is passed by an urgent procedure. We don't know who needs an emergency procedure, if this is an indication of the recent elections in the city of Zagreb. But there is no reason why this law should not be passed in two readings and that we have the opportunity to show our satisfaction or dissatisfaction with the proposed norms and to get time to possibly suggest any further improvements in the Law on the City of Zagreb. We know that the city of Zagreb has a special position. We know that his bodies do both the affairs of local and state administrations. However, what is offered today by this law in an emergency procedure that has no excuse in our Rules of Procedure is the fact that under the company's review of the Law on the System of State Administration in the Law on the City of Zagreb, something that has nothing to do with this law, which is some of the forms of action of the electoral system on individual officials in the city of Zagreb. What we are particularly concerned about is the structure of the law in which the proposer says that the city of Zagreb has special coordinators that coordinate the work of the body, the administrative bodies of the city of Zagreb with the ministries, or other state bodies. Our system has been set up regardless of the independence of local self-government in the affairs of state administration on the principle of subordination. The city of Zagreb cannot have a co-ordinator for the affairs of the state administration with other ministries because this would mean that these de facto bodies are of the same importance or value, not that the bodies of the city of Zagreb are, in their own sense, subordinated to the activities of ministries such as all other bodies of all other units of local or regional self-government. That's why we think this is some kind of forced adoption of the Law on the City of Zagreb. The city of Zagreb, and we have heard from some other colleagues, has great problems in its functioning, in the operation of many bodies from the public businesses of the city to the very bodies dealing with the affairs of state and local self-government. We therefore plead to the Government no matter how in vain it may be to give up the emergency procedure regardless of what it is about a few articles to put this law into first reading and to offer other parts of the Law on the City of Zagreb which we hold to be changed. If you disagree with what it is to believe, and what is the most common case, then we suggest that you completely amend Article 4a. Because no one needs an extra blow to the state administration system. The city of Zagreb still has no rank of ministries and central bodies of state administration and while such a territorial structure should remain so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86526	The replica was answered by respected Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86527	Dear colleague Mlakar, I fully agree that this Law should allow this law to be discussed in a second reading, I agree with that sentence that you said the city of Zagreb deserves a far better law. The city of Zagreb deserves a far more thorough debate and about the City of Zagreb there would be something here in the Croatian Parliament to discuss far longer and far more prepared. You insisted, with the right, on the logic that the Law on the State Administration System should be discussed first and only then the laws attached to, or dependent on, the State Administration System Act. However, we have learned that there is no room for logic in politics. I also appeal, which I'm sure won't be accepted, that this law goes to another reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86528	The replica matches Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86529	Thank you very much. My colleague Vuksic, so what you said is actually just the tip of the icy santa problem that this government faced. In fact, she has offered one so far unremembered bill proposal and has found herself in no professional but political problem because 20 state administration offices have reduced it to 5 that per their part-rounding unit more counties, but could not clearly politically agree to their partners to agree on where the headquarters of these new joint offices of the state administration would be. And I'm afraid it's not the reasons for the expertise, but the political trade reasons why we skipped to talk today about the State Administration System Act, which is otherwise not the system law, it's the law on the decommissioning of what's left of the system, and then after all that we're still bringing, and it's written, the Law on the City of Zagreb, which is the consequence of the Law on the system of state administration that we haven't had a chance to see. So I believe it's at least correct, not to say that there will always be far-reaching consequences of this reverse way, that at least it's correct to discuss this law after the law on the system. We will see why it is even intervened in the Law on the City of Zagreb only when we see what they have broken down further in the system of state administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86530	Final address to Mr. Arsen Bauk's secretary of administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86531	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In short, as regards this law, which, without transitional and final provisions, has 8 articles, 6 are a alignment with other laws, and 1 norm is as I said in the opening statement in a way dedicated to the former president of the City Assembly and President of the Assembly to Mr. Shprem by introducing an institute of city representatives into the law because it began to be used during the time he was president of the assembly. And question of the state administration's business coordinator for the City of Zagreb. In fact, this norm has no direct connection with the amendments to the State Administration System Act because no matter how many representatives of the Office of State Administration outside the City of Zagreb are the mayor of the Office of State Administration, it also performs that function. However, professional colleges that are held in different segments, not only from the part-line of a central state body, should also be attended by persons from the City of Zagreb who do the work of the state administration. As the mayor is a political body or official, and as his deputies are officials, we felt that from the City of Zagreb we should appoint an official who would attend the colleges and who, therefore, would be the first among the same in the ranks of the Head of the City Administration who would then not equalise themselves with the Ministry but with these administrative bodies who normally carry out the tasks of the state administration in the first degree. We also accepted suggestions between some HDZ representatives and the HDZ Club to keep the head of the office in charge of civil servants and then it is logical that one of their colleagues, namely a state official or a city official, participates with them in these colleges of the head of state administration's office. We have proposed that it be appointed by the mayor from the ranks of those heads of state administrations, and those heads of state administrations are elected in a public competition, as well as these presidents, and give consent to the resolution minister or central authority before being appointed head of the city administration. So we now have a system to confirm that some of the city's administration's leaders, which gives them the consent of the resolution ministry. Out of the ranks of these officials who already have one confirmation of state bodies would be one of them, who would, together with other officials who were therefore presidents, participate in the joint work of the College of Heads of State Administration and would in some way be the point of communication in the operational sense between therefore central bodies and the City of Zagreb, not to be mayor as a political body. Here, that was the intensity of this article 4a. So, it's not about any equality or anything, so it should be seen as an operational norm that de facto depolitises the performance of the affairs of the state administration in the City of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86532	Thank you. To this final presentation is replicated by colleague Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86533	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, I don't know what you wanted to say and write in law I can only tell you what you wrote. What kind of body is the mayor of the City of Zagreb? I'll leave it to the voters to decide, but if I understand the word coordinate correctly, it means aligning. In view of the Croatian public, Article 4a reads: "The Coordinator of the State Administration's Office for the City of Zagreb, in the follow-up of the Coordinator, coordinates the co-operation of the administrative bodies of the city of Zagreb in carrying out the tasks of the state administration with the competent central authorities of the state administration". The city of Zagreb cannot co-ordinate co-operation, it needs to carry out what the law has to do and even carry out the tasks of the central authorities of the state administration if such orders exist. If they co-ordinate their jobs, it would even mean that the city of Zagreb could, in that coordination, suggest to the ministries what to do, and that is not the purpose of the system of state administration, especially while there are bodies of different degrees. Since the central authorities are competent authorities of local and regional self-government, this should also be the case in our regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86534	Minister Bauk responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86535	So as far as the coordinator in the city of Zagreb is concerned, so what he would do here is written in the light of the law. He would therefore discuss, together with other representatives, issues relevant to the work of the Office of the State Administration or in the specific case of the work of the administrative bodies of the City of Zagreb, follow the situation in the area, propose measures to improve the state of affairs for the resolution of certain issues, coordinate work in the performance of the Single Administrative Place and ensure standardised and equal treatment of similar cases throughout the country. So in a way, you'd be working with everyone who's doing the same job. Why the city of Zagreb is isolated from the system of state administration is a question from 13 years ago, no one has even asked why we do not have in the city of Zagreb the office of state administration as well as in other counties. And while it is, at least, that we have one link and that link is not a politically elected body of mayor, but to be an official, as I have already said, with the wish for a certain depoliticalization of the relations between the state and the city of Zagreb in performing the affairs of the state administration, which I believe is an emergency for all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-24-0.u86536	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Now we're gonna finish today's work day. We'll start tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with a bill on amendments and additions to the Penal Code. Goodbye. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the City of Zagreb, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 701. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes of 86 votes in favour, 21 against and 8 abstentions have been adopted by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the City of Zagreb in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
