ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74718	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Why the budget rebalance? When we proposed the 2014 budget, we found a special increase in expenditure from expenditure, which in 2014 is the year of full membership in the European Union, which is the reason for the growth of these expenditures and the payment to the Union budget of nearly 3.8 billion kuna. And also, if we withdraw funds from funds, participation or Croatian share is needed, so there was a growth of these expenditures of close to €5.5 billion in the state budget for 2014. At the same time, we failed to ensure economic growth, exports to the common European market did not occur, and this is the reason why we did not have more economic growth to cover these expenditures. The economic growth projection for 2014 was 1.3%. All of this was seen by the government as a risky budget, and already in the last quarter of 2013, it joined the creation of short-term measures to reduce deficits and a short-term programme was adopted in the 11th month 2013. In addition, we have assessed that if we want to ensure economic growth, there is a need to increase national investment and, above all, in energy and rail, a specific programme of government activities has been developed to increase national investment. At the last session of 2013, the government also made its decisions on structural reforms that need to be implemented in health, education, social police and the reorganisation of state administration and justice. These were all measures taken by the government in the last quarter, but were not incorporated into the state budget in 2014 for the reason that we adopted it before the measures were adopted. At the same time, the European Commission estimated that the disturbances in Croatia were significant, that the simple imbalances in the Republic of Croatia were created before the crisis, and through the crisis we failed to resist and the negative effects, and this was all the reason why the European Commission decided on the necessary measures to combat the excessive deficit in the Republic of Croatia. So, by the European Commission, it is also recommended that the government of the Republic of Croatia try to reduce the excessive deficit below 3% in the years of the fourteenth, fifteenth and sixteenth, with the emphasis that larger structural measures should be implemented in 2014. All of this was the reason that the government decided to move immediately with a budget rebalance which we wanted to ensure in time greater and revenue and in some way to stop spending on the original budget and to be more effective in the necessary consolidation measures in 2014. In Croatia, there was a lot of debate on how to implement the budget rebalancing policy where many suggestions were to save everything, and savings were estimated to have to be around 7 and a half billion kunas on the spending side, which would still have too much negative impact on economic growth. Because it is a clear assessment of all the experts that we have an over-indebted state, that we have an over-indebted economy, and unfortunately we have over-indebted citizens, so savings on the spending side of over 7 and a half billion would mean endangering any domestic consumption and demand, and hence very negative effects on economic growth in 2014. This was the reason why the government estimated that the necessary savings should be achieved in part to increase the revenue side, in part to reduce the expenditure side. The government has decided to make its rebalancing proposals so that we can achieve fifty percent of the savings by increasing the revenue side and 50% by reducing the expenditure side. And this budget rebalance here is essentially the result of such an assessment by the government of the Republic of Croatia. So let's try to explain what it was done on the income side, which on the expenditure side. On the revenue side, we have increased revenues by 6 billion kuna, but we have also calculated that the spending side reduction will also have a negative effect on economic growth, so by reducing economic growth to 0.2%, we have also had a negative effect on income cuts based on VAT and income tax which we were obliged to reduce by about 2 billion on the income side due to the decline in economic growth that we have estimated to have with savings on the spending side. So the overall effect of increasing the revenue side is 3 billion and 980 million. What is it that we count on to ensure an increase in the revenue side? Large remarks are always made by the European Commission and the Monetary Fund, that our tax base is too small and that we have always focused on the price of work and the results of our work, and that we have little to take into account some other taxes, and this was the reason that we have increased taxes on the winnings of gambling, so we have estimated that we need to increase concession fees and we have also estimated that in the previous two years there has not been enough investment from companies, and they have been left to gain in companies to increase the withdrawal of funds from our companies by half a billion kuna. We also analyzed the first and second pension pillars came to a clear conclusion that all those who go to early retirement and have the benefits of pensions going from the first pension column and payments in the second pension column, so that we estimated that it was necessary to change that practice and to make contributions to the first pension column from where pensions are paid, which is somewhere on the annual level the regular income of 400 million kuna. And we've estimated, in agreement with the pension funds, that we can recover all the wrong funds that are moving around about 5 billion kuna in the next 2 years, which means in 2014 and 2015. So for this year, we agreed to withdraw 2 billion and 800 million kuna. So, in total, regular incomes in these 2 billion and 800 are certain changes in the way the funds were deposited into pension funds, although payments were not changed, they are the same as the laws were so far and established. Since these changes in pension insurance and pension insurance pillars are one-off payments, one-off revenues and are not considered structural revenues and cannot be used to structurally reduce our deficit, the government has decided to increase the health contribution by 2 index points. And this means that we have increased the contributions from 13% to 15% and that this is essentially a measure that only directly has a negative impact on the competitiveness of the Croatian economy because, therefore, due to the higher gross hour price, the economy will be less competitive. But it is again a structural measure which means constant income, and that is why we have also decided on this unpopular measure of burden on the Croatian economy. All of this is by calculating the effect on the 3 billion 980 million revenue side, which means that somewhere we can freely point out that these structural processes on the income side are about 0.7 or 0.8% and that in that part we can say that somewhere a significant part of the revenue side that can be counted as permanent revenues is a consolidation of the State budget for 2014. When we talk about the spending side, then we have to say that it wasn't easy to find out how to reduce nearly 4 billion kunas of expenditure. So when we look at it together, then we can conclude that we're a total reduction, which was an increase in actual expenditures that had an effect of about 3 billion kunas of 500 million. There is always a question of what these total reductions mean structural, not structural. And in that part, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will have a very strong obligation that all these reductions of around 3 billion and 500 million in the net try to explain in which part they are structural, which they are not. It is evident that, according to the methodology used in the Republic of Croatia, we estimate that this is about 1.1% of structural reductions in the spending side and that it is precisely a greater effect on the deficit reduction that we have just had on the spending side of the state budget. What's done is that we've reduced employee expenditure based on two changes, and that change is related to officials with a 6% reduction in income, and for others employees with the abolition of the loyalty allowance of 4.8% and 10%. And that the effect of these measures is directly on public service employees and education 360 million, and when health care is added 170 million, which means a total of 530 million. This effect is also diminished by increasing health contributions by 250 million kuna. We have also approached a reduction in the cost side of material expenditure where each ministry has re-analysed all contracts for individual services, especially in view of the joint account of salaries, which means IT technology services, also rational use of business spaces and other material expenditures, so we have managed to reduce our expenditure on the material expenditures of 750 million. There are also significant reductions in subsidies. It is evident that the system of subsidies in which simple subsidies could be distributed in such a way that we covered certain due diligences and did not use them properly was the reason that over 700 million were reduced by subsidies. Whether they were shared by agriculture, the economy, entrepreneurship, the Ministry of Finance or some policy related to other resolutions. We have assessed that it is necessary to make efforts in that part and to reduce your givings. In particular, we have analysed all the aid given from the state budget, and in this part, some expenditure on projects in agriculture and regional development and active employment policy has been reduced. We estimated that with lower deficits and higher privatisation revenues, we could also reduce the amount of debt, so we also reduced interest rates. The assessment was that by implementing measures of rationalisation in health and structural changes in health care, which have been completed, we can also make certain savings, so 720 million in healthcare is planned. And in the end, we estimate that part of the projects that are not priority can also be reduced, so in that part there is a reduction of about 360 million. It's nearly 4 billion kuna in total, except that we've estimated that we need to extrapolate 255 million in pensions and also compensation for the unemployed 320 million, so that means a net of less than 3 billion and 500 kuna. In the full part of this budget we have estimated that this year we are going to settle the debts from earlier periods for Croatian Health and we have put these debts into the budget. When we look at these debts according to our methodology, they increase the expenditure side but since these are debts from earlier periods when we observe the ESA methodology or compliance with the EU 3 billion 200 million additional funds for healthcare this year and therefore are considered to be total savings on the income and expenditure side under the ESA 7 billion kuna methodology. These are about the basic characteristics of the state budget and the rebalancing that lies before you today. Two words again I'd say about the risky moments of this rebalancing. In the talks and with the European Commission, the main question is whether a real growth of 0.2% or not is real growth. So I'd like two words on the structure of that real growth assessment. When we look at the government's contribution to economic growth, then we see that it is negative minus two percent. What does that mean? That precisely this reduction on the spending side will have a negative impact so that the country's negative consumption will rise even to minus 2% this year. This just shows that there was a higher cost cut to make the negative impact on economic growth even bigger. We also estimate that it has failed to deprive Croatian citizens, that they are still large debtors in the Republic of Croatia, that they are not able to increase spending in the Republic of Croatia and that they cannot contribute more to the growth of domestic consumption, so when we look at that part, we estimate that domestic consumption will negatively affect economic growth, which is 0.8%. Therefore, two key factors affecting domestic consumption and domestic demand, namely household consumption and state consumption, have a 2.8% negative contribution to economic growth in 2014. The positive effects we expect are to kill an increase in investment, especially state investments. And this is what we estimate that the government has made its growth programme in energy, its contribution to growth through investment in the Croatian railways, in the restructuring of public enterprises and their results of work on which the Government must now elaborate it to the European Commission to show very clearly that this growth is indeed real. And teaching it remains the basic whether we can finally count that with the European market we can have larger exports of RH to Europe because we have also estimated that exports of goods and services can have a positive trend and that this is not only an assumption then we have to say that the entire 2013 privatised shipbuilding had huge problems, that the contracts for overruns were lost, that the overruns were empty and that we simply did not have a significant contribution of shipbuilding in exports. That the situation has changed significantly in 2014, that the contracts are agreed, that through HABOR programmes we try to track boaters who want to order ships, fill order books and that we can really expect a significant contribution and shipbuilding in the export of the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, we started manufacturing both domestic trains and electricity and industry, and we expect their contribution to exports to this year will have a significant share. And, of course, the chemical and pharmaceutical industries that are just slowly turning more and more towards exports. So, the evaluations are by the government of the Republic of Croatia that real growth in imports of goods and services is possible. And in essence, this assumption that our projections of economic growth are positive is what will be the greatest burden of proving to the European Commission since the autumn projection that was given again showed negative trends when we talk about European Commission experts. And here in that part it is very important to point out how realistic our projections are or not. What I also want to say very clearly is that we also have a completely conservative approach to income planning, which means that this trend of economic growth is very conservative about tax revenues in the budget and rebalancing and planned. That was the reason, if you remember when I said we'd cut nearly $1.8 billion of our income from a reduction in economic growth this year and the first quarter would show how real we were. What I want to point out is that the first two months our incomes are higher than in 2013. Therefore, the assessment that we have nevertheless assessed the revenues of the state budget quite realistically and conservatively. What are the total effects now on our deficit with this state budget proposal? Our total income with these changes would be $117,064 billion, and total expenditures of 130 billion and 651 million. Which means that according to the new proposal, the government budget deficit would be 13 billion kuna 587 million or 4.1% of GDP. If you remember, our budget deficit is 17 billion 463 million or 5.2% for the narrow country. With these deficit projections, the government of the Republic of Croatia will be able to do so in '15. And '16. a year with additional measures to achieve savings and lower the deficit of the state budget below 3% of GDP in 2016, which is what the government's goal and further programmes are to reduce the excessive deficit. What needs to be pointed out, we have also reduced some expenditure on Croatian roads and expenditures in Croatia, and we have achieved some savings here, and we have reduced the total government budget deficit from 19.2 billion to 15.087 billion kuna or better from 5.8% of deficits per original budget, we have now lowered it to 4.5%. These are again, I repeat the assumptions that we will be able to deal with further consolidation measures, but again I am pointing both at the income and on the spending side to be able to lower our deficit below 3% in the next 2 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74719	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. We've got a dozen replicas, let's get in line. Dear Vice President of the House, Željko Reiner, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74720	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we will all agree that the budget is actually a key act showing the government's policy and vision of the government in which it is intended to go. If so, it is both unserious and irresponsible that somewhere around two and a half months after the budget is passed, we are already rebalanced that same budget. You are aware of this, the beginning of your presentation has dedicated exactly an attempt to explain why already, I repeat, almost two and a half months after the last budget brings rebalancing. You said these were among other costs of our EU membership, and that is nothing new. So we know that we have entered the EU, thank God since 01/07 last year, therefore this is not some new discovery. As an explanation, you mentioned the excessive deficit procedure. We also knew at the time of the budget that Croatia would have to go to the excessive deficit procedure because not only did we discuss it here, but the prime minister explained that it was not something special, this excessive deficit procedure because it had already passed or is now located in more than half of the EU member states. So it's actually becoming completely unclear how the government, I repeat, a little over two and a half months ago had no idea what was going to happen today, and it seems to me that it's just one message of unseriousness, the wanderings that will continue to continue, so that's why, right? we already know today that it will have to be in 2.5 months rebalancing since... /The speaker will turn off./... [[Intruder Light: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74721	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, respected Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74722	So you will allow, unlike you, institutions such as the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund commend the Government for policies in 2012 and 2013 and how they prevented further tax evasion, introduced discipline, as they managed to lower the deficit to only 3.5% in 2012. But they also make it very clear that the problems of health care and the additional 3.5 billion in 2013 and now 3200 in 2014, as well as in 2013 with 800 payments in the budget of Europe this year, so the participation for individual projects, all of these are additional expenditures that we haven't found in what, we haven't found an excuse in economic growth or vice versa, are not covered by economic growth Listen, I'll just read you the findings of the European Commission, "The imbalances of Croatia accumulated in the expansion phase by 2009, and during the crisis and the entry into the recession were impossible." Therefore, the depth of the crisis is the reason for irresponsible behavior at the time of the recession. So let's try to understand that grades of the over-indebted state, over-indebted economy, over-indebted citizens don't just get rid of each other so easily. It's a long-term process, and obviously this is what you do, and I'm telling you very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, Therefore, the government's measures are commended in all of this, but they are obviously not enough. We'll have plenty of time in the next two years.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74723	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74724	Dear Minister Linic, of course the budget is not just a matter of the Minister of Finance. First of all, the budget is particularly in these conditions in these circumstances a matter of the entire government and you here, Mr. Minister, are defending the indefensible. That's why the prime minister was supposed to be here today instead of getting clatters in Australia and New Zealand, all ministers were supposed to be tied to the economy, the health minister. The problem is the economy. It's no problem to find a way to implement the rebalancing. Rebalance is carried out under unfavourable conditions. And with part of what Minister Linic said agreeing, mistakes were made at the beginning of the crisis itself when the crisis was not recognised. However, you said one reason for this rebalancing and payment to the EU is membership. That is correct, so we also knew in 2011, 2012 that we will have to and how much we will have to pay EU membership. You were talking about one thing that divided the opposition and the government, which is a health contribution. When you reduced it from 15% to 13%, we warned of the severe consequences, today you did not admit in your presentation that the really difficult consequences occurred by this thoughtless act more that the HUP said that it did not seek that measure, that the government had brought the measure itself without HUP asking for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74725	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74726	When we talk about whether the finance minister can defend this rebalancing then he would simply point out that unfortunately, the Ministry of Finance is involved in all the times involved in the government's work. So, what's our problem? Privatized shipbuilding where we took on 10 billion commitments, where we took that another five billion will be provided for the restructuring of that shipbuilding, that the shipbuilding in 2013 remained completely dry on-board. Yes, these are all the measures of the government that we have all actively worked from the Ministry of Economy, Government, members of the government to the Ministry of Finance. We want to talk about the restructuring of railways that were destroyed, abandoned, employed without any activity, without investment, that we have now turned this restructuring around. Investment in passenger trains, investment in infrastructure, attempt to solve HZ Cargo. Yeah, two years of hard work with all the negative implications of state budget revenues. All these activities that all members of the government do together is our job to restructure the economy. Expecting this economy to bring economic growth, to bring development, to hire people, that it's all our job because someone didn't do it before. And it has negative effects. And as for the health contribution, I'll repeat it a thousand times, the health contribution to the health care budget doesn't matter. 2011 budget 19.8 billion, budget 2012 19.2 we've all been cutting costs. Budget 2013 21.4 billion, 2 billion more. Where do you see that reduction? Nowhere. Let's figure out what the budgets are and what the revenues are.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74727	Thank you. The third replica of the respected representative Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74728	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, where do you see this in health care? Well you can see every day, in health care everything is seen, health care is sick in addition to the increase you speak of 2 billion kunas from 2013 to 2014. But what I was going to say is that your emphasis on the decline in economic growth is therefore the problem in the economy with yours to say the financial account and the report. As if, I would say separate that part or as if the government in total as counterpart Vuksic said was not both responsible and responsible for that part, for economic growth. And you through finance and calculation, so the increase on the income side, the cuts on the spending side, so you're actually trying to do something that's impossible when we have a drop in economic growth, when we have a drop in exports, a drop in GDP, a drop in production, a drop in consumption and everything else. And what I particularly stuck to my ear is your guidance, as well as everyone here, that this EU membership fee is one of the reasons. Well, we knew that before July 1, 2013, so we knew before the budget was adopted 2.5 months ago when the item was also clearly known and included in the budget. So all together this is an attempt to spill a little bit from hollow to empty, we know about the state of the railroad, we know about a very difficult state of railways that don't lead anywhere, we know about the state of health, and when you were talking about agriculture, then you mentioned that you were reduced aid in agriculture. It feels the most important thing about us in Slavonia at every turn. Agriculture is completely sealed by this government and rather than being in some sense a locomotive of development, an economy in Croatia [[Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74729	Thank you. The reply to the replica, respected Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74730	Greater shares in the budget of the European Union and higher expenditure on this basis were all known and not questionable. The question remains why there is no export to the European Union because of our 1.7 market is no longer Croatia, economic growth should not be counted solely on the Croatian market because it is a common market and the European Union. And obviously, the main problem is the incompetence of the Croatian economy. And the battle to strengthen that competitive power to be able to appear outside is something that has not yet yielded results, has not yielded results. Why? The question remains why. So then you'll get that the economy has closed down production, that we've turned to service activities, that we've reinvested there into completely wrong investments, investments, that we're over-indebted. And yet I ask you, the government had three reprogrammes, struggled to financially disburse her for debts to the state. Well, when that wasn't enough, we went to pre-determined settlements, all of these are processes that are well-known to economists. The government handles it every day. So we cut parafiscal burdens, and even 2% of health care... We made this all so that the economy would be competitive and exports would not be achieved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is what is problematic and this is what the government is dealing with on a daily basis, how to recover the economy that the economy of human employment, new investment and export cover our greater expenditure in the state budget for membership in the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74731	Thank you very much. A new replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74732	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, you tried to explain the government's moves, but one key move didn't even try to touch it and essentially explain it and that's the second pillar of retirement. The second pillar of your pension is a total of 3 billion 200 to this planned increase in the revenue side. However, the legislative story with the second pillar of retirement is not over. Because if I'm not mistaken by the government amendment, all those who want to stay in the second pillar of retirement have until they can apply. So today we're bringing rebalancing, we're actually going to bring it in three days, the government here today is saying that 2 billion dollars this year, 2 billion 800 next year, and that with the basis of the non-payment 5% in the second pillar of pension income this year is going to be an additional 400 million and another 500 million next year. According to what we can read in the media, the majority of the people in the Croatian police, so Croatian police officers who are in this quota of the benefited internship do not want to be taken away from them the money that is their private savings. And so I'm curious about how you're going to make up for, how you're going to make up, possibly let's say 30% of the people in the second pillar simply decide that they're going to stay in it, those who have an unfettered job experience. That's about a billion and 600 billion and 700 each year, so 750 million each year, and that's about 150 million a year. That would mean an extremely difficult blow to these projections that you've submitted. And it is not good for the government, unfortunately, to propose certain revenues and expenditures, which have not been fully implemented, during the draft budget. And those expenses then produce certain lawsuits and I'll discuss it more.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74733	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74734	The very clear projections that the government has proposed in this rebalancing remain. If I'm not mistaken in 2009, we've made it very clear to the regulations that all those who are going into early retirement on the benefited payout will leave the first pension column. It's very clear, it's written, we've been researching it. Therefore, if citizens opt for a second pension stake, it is their risk. Is that their risk? Why is it their risk? Well, because he's gonna get less pensions. He'll get fewer pensions. For the simple reason that the salaries of police officers, firefighters, small soldiers are not great. They're not big. And on the other hand, they will work less years, so the payments will be very small. Therefore, we have no objection that pension funds are trying to get more citizens. They'll just have to explain to the citizens why they've put them in a difficult situation. Therefore, the economic one who retires early with low wages will not go well in the second pension column. And we don't expect that there will be a large number of those who will remain in the second pension column because there are no resolutions, there's no economic justifications if anyone knows the system. Therefore, our projections are precisely that citizens are more paid to stay in the first pension column as has been the solution so far. So the money that was paid into the second pension was returned to the first pension column. That's clear. But there's something else we need to know. This model is not structural income, so it does not count for relations with the European Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74735	Thank you very much. Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74736	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. Of course, at that very moment when the hands were raised in this Chamber for, against or withheld about the state budget that we knew and without being told by the Council of the European Union what you are saying in the first sentence of the argument that we will have to go into rebalancing. So, the measures you're proposing to implement today in the budget rebalance of health insurance, i.e. further contributions we could do then. So I don't understand why, then, all these measures, and related to the estimated expenditures that are further explained here for, say, pensions or those obligations to shipmen. I'll put the health care aside. Why couldn't we do that when the 2014 budget was being made? And the other thing, so we're being asked to do it, and it's our obligation to cut the budget by 7.7 billion kuna. So this is step one. When, Mr. Minister, do you predict that we would possibly go to another rebalancing? Because in my opinion, and also the opinion of many experts who know a lot more is that these projected revenues that you've very optimisticly predicted are also difficult to achieve this year. So, in conclusion, these measures that you are proposing today have not been put into the 2014 budget only on the basis of a health insurance contribution, we lost some 800 million kuna in this year, as you yourselves predict that income from that base will be a billion and 600 million, and next year 2 billion and 400 million kuna. So we could have done that months ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74737	Replica response, respected Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74738	So I have already noted that when the government adopted the budget, I have estimated that the deficit of over 5% is not acceptable, that it is not acceptable, and this was the reason that the government itself went into the adoption of short-term measures, a special investment programme, and especially a long-term job was on structural changes and reforms that need to be done in health, education and should be done in administration and justice. We will discuss many of these things and discuss them in the Croatian Parliament as well. That's a lot of hard work. These measures have also been valorised at this point, converted into figures. So that's why with the valorization of all these numbers we could have made a rebalancing. So over 5% of the deficits we achieved and showed in the budget were something that concerned the government itself. And I agree with you. A budget has been proposed which we thought would need to change and we are changing it immediately after the first three months of this year. It's a story about how we lost our health benefits. No, the health contribution is the measure we're introducing. We don't think she's good, we don't. It will re-apply to the economy additional costs. These additional costs mean the economy will be less competitive, less likely to break into the European market. But it's a measure we estimate should be taken. Why? Because we need revenue, so we don't cut expenses.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74739	Dear Representative Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74740	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, dear Minister, you spoke of the risk a little while ago. I must tell you that, unfortunately, since the current government manages the country, it is a risk to live and work in our country, unfortunately. At the beginning of your presentation, you said clearly that it actually turns out that the problem for the state budget is that we entered the EU. This government knows, so it's been two years since you took power, a year and a half before you joined the EU. So, I don't know, maybe it's cynical that the prime minister goes to Brussels for a few weeks and lobbys there to cut our payments and say that we're incompetent, namely withdrawing the projected funds from the structural funds. But it's not the time for cynicism, because the situation is really dramatic. The economy is doomed. And instead of riding on the Wall today to join the EU that we have an increased amount of investment, exports, that the economy is growing the opposite. I rebalancing, this today's rebalancing is actually the tip of the ice santa, that is, the consequence of everything the government has done wrong and what it has failed to do in the past two years. No reform, no new taxes. The simple result is no economic growth and growth in unemployment. Unfortunately, that's a clear diagnosis. So, the only discharge in these two years as soon as the entire government is praised, all ministers, and that's a reduction in health contributions. You stop, so you re-impose the economy, the growth of unemployment and we're going round and we just all know that and you know that without economic growth, actually the state budget can't be consolidated. But simply what needs to be concluded after these two years that the current government does not know how to start economic growth, does not understand the economy in the 21st century, the market economy, does not understand why someone would invest, why someone would hire and expect a steady growth in public sector investment. Of course completely, completely wrong. In addition, what needs to be emphasized here is uncertainty, instability, or the unpredictability of economic and tax policy, in fact, the key problem that this government has just introduced. And the consequences are rebalancing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74741	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74742	... that you may think so, and I will read to you what foreign experts tell you, that I personally share it with you and call upon your mistakes. [[Specially enabled.]] You know, yes, the truth is, the EU's entry has caused additional expenditure in the state budget. 3.8 billion kunas in the budget of Europe and participation for all the funds withdrawn. Because withdrawing funds isn't the revenue of the state budget, you know that. It's not income, but we still have 25 to 40% of our budget money to pay for these projects, but it's not revenue. Which means Europe has brought us additional expenditure. What's the problem? Our problem is that we have no exports that would raise economic growth, so this economic growth would bring incomes that would cover the expenditure side. And why don't we have economic growth? Well, that's what I'm telling you, they tell you all the problems you created at the time when it was good in Croatia, until 2009. Well then, there was no need for measures to combat the negative effects of the crisis. So then all the companies we owned as state owners weren't restructured, they weren't in development, they weren't in investment, they were just consumer companies. Yeah, that's how they judge the shipbuilding that you left behind both the railroad and many, many companies. They've been well analyzed, so read it. It'll be fine. And government measures in the last two years have been particularly praised both in the re-financing and re-programming part and in the part of pre-fashion agreements. The government had a program.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74743	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative of the Sun's Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74744	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, I'm going to ask you to dismember some of the parts of this rebalancing that some say are actually revolving and not rebalancing. If I understand well what you're saying, your intention is actually to make the government, or the state, a stimulating creator of the environment for the economy, entrepreneurship and craftsmen. The same businessmen, entrepreneurs and craftsmen are counting on it to be those who would reduce this huge unemployment or that would bring about a planned increase in the revenue side. But I don't understand, Mr. Minister, how are you going to do that when over a billion-and-a-half kuna is just budget rebalancing, so we have to say that word is being cut down by the economy, entrepreneurship and craftsmanship? Strengthening competitiveness of the economy, one item. Second, support for the preparation of the project to strengthen the Croatian economy. Strengthening the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises, the development of entrepreneurship infrastructure and the entrepreneurship environment. Afterwards, implementation of measures to encourage investment of small and medium-sized enterprises. Just some of the items I'm telling you. But that's why you haven't forgotten, or your colleagues haven't forgotten about predicting the restoration of the fleet, I hope you've seen it, so you're re-planning to buy some new vehicles. Active employment policy I don't really know how important it would be if significant funds were taken away. If funds are taken away equally from persons with disabilities or for their employment, and I do not know where the increase in former JNA pensions is from. For God's sake, I really thought here's where we'd at least have a cut. In any case, Mr. Minister, will there be another rebalancing? And I'm afraid the highest price of this rebalancing will be paid by the unemployed in the Republic of Croatia and our economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74745	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74746	So what I can briefly say is that now your objection is that we may have cut too much on support, subsidies, investment in the economy. Then look at the item of entrepreneurship in the original budget and you will see significant growth compared to the achievement of 2013. That was why we now proposed smaller growth, but still bigger than 2013. Here, too, there is often talk of reducing support for agriculture. That's not true. It is forgotten that this year a transfer of 700 million from the EU is being withdrawn and around 350 million is being reduced. Which means it's bigger for agriculture, bigger. Yeah, we're reducing shipbuilding. But not because we're assessing, but restructuring shipbuilding is a joint business between both the government and the new owners. How much do they invest in that restructuring? We can't do more than them. Not to mention those general incentives. For example, the Ministry of Finance no longer needs to support the interest of 1%, no more. It has HBOR, HBOR has its own policy, interest is acceptable at the moment and there is no need to support it. So those are your answers. There are no significant reductions when we observe neither agriculture nor shipbuilding nor entrepreneurship. Compared to last year 2013, if we look at it, it's still bigger giving.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74747	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74748	Thank you very much. Well, here's the Honorable Minister I'm looking back at your part where you said you didn't know if the evaluations were correct. So who should know if the estimates are correct in this country if not you as Minister of Finance? Because a message is being sent that we must be acting or moving here in this country by some kind of momentum, by that prime minister and doing nothing will happen. I don't think these are good messages and that this best government says Deputy Prime Minister Pusic doesn't deserve, he doesn't deserve catastrophic results. But also the relationship between you as Minister of Finance and Prime Minister because I think this rebalancing is precisely the result of this relationship. I will remind you of how it is possible for a health contribution in the same year to be 12, i.e. 13% and 15%. How is it possible for VAT on catering services to be in the same year 10 and 13%? How is it possible for you to say that they are pre-determined settlements and the prime minister is going to stop them? How is it possible that you're looking for a real estate tax and some others say you shouldn't. It's possible that you say college money should end up in the budget and some others say it shouldn't. Your assistant was good, Prime Minister. Can you imagine the financial plans of entrepreneurs working under such conditions? Every two months we have different parameters. This is exactly the relationship that comes out of your relationship with the Prime Minister because while he is in Australia, New Zealand admires the Kengores and the Maurs, you defend the government's policy here and I think you don't have enough of his support for any of the measures you're proposing. Have the citizens become hostages of such a relationship? I think they are, and that's why this rebalancing story is going to end very soon. But in the end, I want to ask you, do you have the support of the prime minister that you can continue to propose such economic policies as this budget rebalance?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74749	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74750	So if I'm not mistaken, Slavko Linic does not represent the Minister of Finance but represents the proponent of budget rebalancing, but the proponent of budget rebalancing is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. However, the abovementioned rebalancing was accepted unanimously in the cabinet session. So it's the government of the Republic of Croatia's document. All these stories about my relationship, the prime minister's relationship can accept that it's fun for the media but that's fun for you, I'll let you have fun. As Minister of Finance, I must say I have too much work to do with parties like this. You know, conduct negotiations with the IMF to get a proper report that you and your associates are for the basic state of this. Yeah, that's very important. This is what you need to do and explain, that we are agreeing with the European Commission on how to fight an excessive deficit, and that is what needs to be known. And prepare both the budget and the budget rebalancing and that should be known, and run over I would say certain intrigues of pre-fashion settlements. And now imagine, for a good part, it is especially up to you to prove that this is a criminal enterprise, that this is the biggest robbery, and imagine the European Commission is assessing the pre-fashion model that it will necessarily suggest implementation in all EU countries. Yes, it's a difference in politics, it bothers you that the government has its own programmes, that the government is struggling with its programmes to bring the Croatian economy back to where it was, only you interfere with the government, but I don't really believe that you will succeed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74751	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Darko Milinovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74752	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, you've begun to explain this budget rebalance with the question, why the budget rebalance? Well, he's clocked in one sentence, because of the wrong economic policy and the wrong evaluations, and that's why this budget rebalance. Let me remind you, you've actually been wrong about 300 percent every year. You can be, this government can be a mystery 300 percent. In 2012, you had an economic growth estimate of 0.8%, ending with -2%. That's three times the wrong estimate, 300 percent. In 2013, the estimate was 1.8% at the end was -1%. Another 300 percent of this year's estimate was 1.3 now you've reduced it to 0.2 and probably not, but it's definitely going to be negative, that's an additional 300 percent. In three years, you've missed 900 percent of your grades. However, as far as economic policy is concerned, so remember VAT from 23% to 25%, this has led to what we have warned, to an increase in prices, to a decrease in the wage power of the population, due to the decline in personal consumption to the so-called delayed consumption, today we see also deflation and you have proceeded due to this economic measure about a billion kuna less in the state budget. The contribution from 15 to 13% in two years lost 5 billion kuna, so the VAT and the contribution made you income less than 6 billion kuna and that's why you entered the excessive deficit procedure. So let us remember that winged thing: "All hands to work, all hands to work!", today we could say: "All on the stock market, stock market for everyone!", or the others: "In plus three wages, not to be paid!", today we can say: "In addition to three salaries, it's such a lie that I really get paid."
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74753	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74754	I wouldn't say about your policy, it's up to you to try to say that it's always important to take everything to the economy and you did it, you took everything, you didn't solve the shipbuilding, you didn't solve it, you stayed with the debt 10 billion, 10 billion not completely restructured, you walked from Europe to here for five years and you didn't solve anything, you completely destroyed the railroad, you devastated it, 38 kilometers was the speed on the Croatian railways thanks to you. This is your contribution, and the economy you tried not to solve, let it only take care of itself. Yes, the Croatian government headed by Zoran Milanovic solved the problems of the Croatian economy and resolved the shipbuilding work well solves the railways, solves the business's dubiosis as well. And you know what's interesting? You're all talking about VAT from 23 to 25, interestingly no one else. None of the experts. What's the problem? Why is there no economic demand in the Republic of Croatia? Well, there's no one to shop for. Why? So because you owe the economy you forced into completely wrong investments, the state is over-indebted and the citizens of Croatia are over-indebted. You didn't solve these problems at all because you felt that you didn't need to solve it, unlike those of us who felt that all this was to be solved. That's what we're different about. We are looking for basic problems in the economy, and it is not a VAT problem, the problem is that there is no purchasing power in Croatia because in 8 years we have imposed debts on everyone, over-indebted them, they can't even live.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74755	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to keep parliamentaryism in order for citizens to hear the arguments of each other, both the government and the MPs and can evaluate, to arbitration on these arguments, and disagreement with the spoken-up does not mean disrupting the partners, it is necessary to use business opportunities, and there are many. We continue with the replicas, the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74756	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, your opening explanation of this budget rebalancing is final confirmation, I'd say missed decisions, not to say the failed policies of this government. Namely, Col. Milinovic reminded you that in 2012, i.e. in 2011, you planned a growth of 0.8 when proposing a rebalancing, i.e. the national budget for 2012, the epilogue was a 1.9% drop in GDP. In 2013, you planned growth by 1.8, the epilogue was a 1% drop in GDP. Three months ago, I will remind you that here in the Parliament, when the budget is proposed, you have told us that growth in this year will be 1.3, today with the budget rebalance you deny yourself, and you say that there will be only 0.2% growth, and certainly that this growth will not happen, and unfortunately this year there will be a GDP decline in Croatia. In 2011, you gradually announced a reduction in the rate of contribution to health insurance from 15% to 13% and then, as a compensatory measure in the revenues of the state budget, increased VAT from 23rd to 25th. Today, when you reduce, or return that rate to 15%, it might be correct and fair if you returned that compensation measure from 25% of VAT to 23%. Just before, counterpart Buric said that in the same year, you increased the VAT rate in tourism first, and then returned from 10% to 15%. 13%. The second thing, when you proposed a budget 3 months ago, one of the important measures for economic growth in this year was to announce an increase in investment. With this budget rebalance, you are again reducing that same, and the same expenditure by 420 million kuna, so there is no such investment. I am, sir, here is the minister, at the end of the interest, given that this is evidence of a series of... measures, I think we are interested in whether by the end of the year you will approach... the budget rebalancing and what will it mean to reduce employees' rights in the public sector and Croatian...?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74757	Thank you very much. Thank you. Replica response, respected Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74758	The question remains where are the problems when we talk about economic growth. Where are the problems? Both in the private sector and in the state sector. Yes, it is evident that the severe consequences of the failed management of the state sector have sought enormous efforts to get rid of and shipbuilding, to try to solve railways, air transport, to try to solve problems in Croatian forests, Croatian waters and everything else. It is evident that in Croatian waters we have had a very fast turn of investment and an increase in investment unlike the others where it has not been and we expect it this year. Yeah, there's a basic problem. On the other hand, all the stories, there were projects in energy, in HEP, in this, on the other hand, it was evident that it wasn't, that it was working on projects. Speaking of HH, too. Shall we talk about the INA? What's the problem with INA, there's just no investment in INA. Yes, these are the problems that the government is trying to solve and right through solving these problems, structural problems, restructuring and raising efficiency in companies where we own and show how we should be managed because it is also state property. This is where we expect economic growth. And what is important to note, no, the budget of investment growth is not well assessed because it is a higher expenditure in the budget, but growth in investments in HEP, growth in investments in Croatian forests, in some others, that is what we want.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74759	Thank you. Thank you very much, Your Honor. It is next to the last replica of the respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74760	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, the etymology of words, criticism does not give the right to public violence, but still when we experience 5 rebalances in 2 years, then even the most optimistic person abandons the last illusion. You're saying here that the rebalancing is due to an increase in expenditure, and in fact these rebalances increase expenditure by 130.7 million kuna, and they're big anyway. For example, in 2002 they accounted for 35% of GDP, 2007 reduced to 34% of GDP and 2011 increased to 36% of GDP, and today 40% of GDP. Such a situation is unsustainable and makes the state budget infertile, and we have not taken the kuna or the lipe to unnecessary agencies, their intellectual services, let alone non-civil associations that are in billions of kunas. This rebalancing and increasing economic activity is foreseen, interestingly not a single official document of the Republic of Croatia, and the state budget is the most important financial document, it does not contain a projection of the economic downturn, and we have a constant economic downturn for years. Does that not guide us and warn us? This is a projection of economic growth even though for 0.2 it actually calls for a better future than it is based on real projections of macroeconomic indicators. And as for these contributions to health care, the reduction and the increase, this situation reminds me of the situation where someone first raises the dust, and then sues to see it weaker. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74761	Thank you, too. The reply to the replica, respected Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74762	Yes, the truth is the expenditure of the state budget is growing compared to GDP. And for what? 'Cause GDP's been dropping for the last five years, it's been falling. Well, then if it's a vase because the one that's getting smaller, then obviously the expenditures are growing. Therefore, the question remains what to do to make sure that economic growth occurs. And a good part of government measures is just about how to recover and the state sector where we own it, how to make it more efficient, more efficient, how to turn it to investment and employment of people, but also the private sector, we haven't left it. In three years, a series of government measures have been turned to the private sector, how to return them to production and how to return them to the investment cycle. Those are the measures. Unfortunately, we see that all these measures are very, very slow, but we will continue to apply them because it is simply the only solution. This government will not agree that we are reducing expenditure, it will not agree if these expenditures are made up of pensioners, make up employees and make up those who are the social problem of the Republic of Croatia due to a small number of jobs. And it cannot be built by the Republic of Croatia by cutting such expenditures, but by fighting backwards for new jobs and economic growth. With economic growth, with new investments, with new workers, we can thus reduce the participation of state spending in the overall social product. It's the politics of the government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74763	Thank you very much. Do the presidents or representatives of the working bodies committee of the Croatian Parliament wish to present reports? Yeah. Dear Srdjan Gjurkovic on behalf of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74764	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 64th session held on 11 March 2014 the proposal to amend and supplement the state budget as a parent working body. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament held a meeting with the written position of the Committee on Fiscal Policy, which, in accordance with the decision to set up the Committee on Fiscal Policy of the Croatian Parliament, is required to take a position on the application of the fiscal rule laid down by the Fiscal Responsibility Act. The three most important points of view of the Committee on Fiscal Policy are: the Commission considers that macroeconomic projections of economic growth in the proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 are more realistic than in the adoption of the original budget, but also underlines the existence of significant risks of failure to meet expected economic growth. These risks are related to unfavourable movements at the end of last year, then to the planned fiscal consolidation of the structural problem in the economy that prevents rapid recovery of growth. Secondly, the Commission estimates that the State Budget Rebalance proposal is a good step towards reducing fiscal imbalances in the environment of high level of public debt and the need for funding that reduce fiscal capacity due to an increasing amount of interest on public debt. The commission also expects to announce a medium-term fiscal plan that will make Croatia's future fiscal position clearer. The Commission shall assess that the implementation of the budget in accordance with the proposed amendments and additions should lead to the fulfilment of the provisional fiscal rule. The Commission also believes that the fiscal consolidation process to be observed in the long term will be able to give a better assessment after all the fiscal measures the Government of the Republic of Croatia plans to take by 2016 are known. Also at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Finance of the Croatian Parliament, the following opinions were delivered, the opinion was given that the state budget for 2014 and the rebalance of the state budget for 2014 were not adopted on the basis of a certain economic policy or on the basis of certain systemic measures, but on the basis of ad hoc measures. In addition to the proposal for a rebalancing of the state budget, the base projection bar for 2015, 2016, was to be presented. In the light of the opinion given in the debate and in this rebalancing of the state budget, it is confirmed that in 2012 the greatest benefit from the reduction of the health contribution was the state budget. The debate also expressed the opinion that this rebalancing of the state budget must undoubtedly have been made in line with the EU guidelines in line with the excessive deficit procedure in which we entered. However, there is or has already been more than half of the EU countries in the excessive deficit procedure, so we are no exception to what we are now in this procedure. The debate also noted, among other things, that the first objective of this rebalance of the state budget in the excessive deficit procedure, the reduction of deficits from the estimated 5.8 in the first year to reach 4.5... GDP deficit this year, which is what this rebalance has fulfilled. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And as another opinion from the debate. This year, however, has been shown to be marked by a GDP growth of 0.2%, which is modest but points to positive trends in economic activity. It was also noted that industrial production growth was also reported in January this year. After the discussion of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament, he decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly an amendment to the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 together with the relevant acts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74765	Do the presidents, representatives of other working bodies want to present reports? I don't think so. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going through the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the Social Democratic Party of Croatia's turn and the respected representative Dragica Zgrebec, vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74766	Thank you, Mr. President, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Since the outbreak of the global, financial and economic crisis, Croatia has been having a difficult time dealing with the scale of the crisis and recession because it is also driven by a poor economic structure. Since 2009, the state budget has recorded high deficits, accelerated public debt growth on all grounds, and economic downturn and high liquidity. Unfortunately, the first signs of a deep crisis did not take adequate anti-recession measures, but it was denied that there was a crisis at all. This affected the deepening of the crisis and led to Croatia starting to take more serious anti-recession measures and reforms only in the fourth year of economic downturn. By entering the European Union, Croatia must respect a certain budgetary policy defined by the master criterion, i.e. the deficit must be below 3 and the public debt of the general state below 60% of GDP. In years of crisis other than the two Member States of the European Union, all have gone through the excessive deficit procedure, implemented serious measures and reforms that, with more or less success in the shorter or longer period, have led to a deficit and debt in the given frameworks. Since this is the first year of Croatia's first year of membership in the European Union and we are in the excessive deficit process, there are also a few words to be said about it. We received recommendations from the Council based on the autumn forecast of the Commission, which envisions the general government deficit in 2013-2015 above 3% and the general government debt above 60% of GDP. The Commission points to the adoption of budgetary consolidation measures to ensure the permanent improvement of the general government balance and the quality of public finances. The aim of the measures should be to strengthen economic growth, create a more flexible labour market, improve the quality of the business environment and the efficiency of public administration. The budgetary consolidation measures should ensure permanent improvement of the general government balance and the quality of public finances. The Commission draws attention to measures favouring expenditure and investment to foster growth, in particular under the Cohesion Fund and the Structural Funds of the European Union, and to improving respect for tax obligations and strengthening the fiscal framework. Based on this forecast, the Council decided on 10 January that Croatia is entering the excessive deficit process. In the recommendation of the Council, it shall require the achievement of annual budgetary targets corresponding to the minimum annual improvement of the structural balance or cyclically adjusted balance without one-off and other temporary measures of at least 0.5% of GDP as a reference criterion. The Council makes the following recommendations for Croatia. The excessive deficit should end by 2016. The deficit should be reduced to at least 4.6% of GDP in 2014, 3.5% in 2015 and 2.7% in 2016, corresponding to annual improvement of the structural balance to at least 0.5% of GDP in 2014, 0.9% in '15. And 0.7% in '16. A year. Croatia should establish and implement the measures necessary to reduce the excessive deficit by 2016 but also use all unexpected gains or revenues to reduce deficits. The Council sets the deadline of 30.4. of this year until which Croatia is due to report on the consolidation strategy and then report on the progress made every 6 months until the full correction of the excessive deficit is achieved. Finally, the Council calls on the competent authorities in Croatia to carry out a thorough audit of expenditure in order to streamline expenditure on wages, social security, subsidies and provide for sufficient fiscal space for expenditure that promotes growth including subsidisation of projects financed by the European Union. The Council calls for further improvement in respect of tax obligations and an increase in the efficiency of the tax administration, the institutional framework of public finances, in particular the improvement of multiannual budgetary planning and the continuation of structural reforms in terms of labour market flexibility, adverse business environment, improvement of public administration. The IMF mission also referred to the improvement of sustainable fiscal consolidation, saying that following the consolidation efforts in 2012 the deficit increased in 2013 due to low incomes, debt acquisitions and outstanding outstanding liabilities of state-owned hospitals and state-owned enterprises and the cost of joining the European Union something similar to that said by the European Commission and in order to avoid excessive fiscal contractions in the short term. The IMF mission also proposes to adapt within three years, with an emphasis on revenue-side measures for 2014. And now a few sentences about how the budget rebalance is structured. Incomes are corrected due to a lower GDP growth of 0.2%, reducing revenues by 1.8 billion kuna. Incomes are increased by taxes on gambling gains, contributions to health insurance, contributions to pension insurance on behalf of the benefits of the job, increased concession fees and withdrawal of part of the company's profits as revenue from the state budget, totalling 5.8 billion kuna. So the total increase in revenue in this rebalance is about 4 billion or 3 and a half percent. The expenditure is increased by 103 million or 0.2%, and in the reduction structure concerns expenditure on employees, material and financial expenditures, subsidies, aid and compensation, as well as other expenditure and expenditure on non-financial assets of 3.7 billion, which are increased by health care, mainly for the recovery of hospitals, unemployed, 3.8 billion pensions. Thus, structured incomes and expenditures are reduced by 3.9 billion, i.e. 13.6 billion or 4.1%) of GDP, and with a deficit of 0.4% for extra- budget users, the general government deficit for 2014 is planned at 4.5%, which fits the recommendations of the Council of the EU, while public debt will reach a level of as much as 69.5%. Although January of this year, following the publication of the State Statistics Institute shows some positive shifts in macroeconomic indicators such as growth of industrial production, nights of tourists, retail trade, exports, declines in inflation, measures of financial consolidation of economic operators should continue to be taken in the long term, as well as the recovery of citizens and their budgets on the basis of which the growth of production and services and personal consumption is apparent. It should be expected that measures to date relating to pre-investment settlements, tax debt reprogrammes, reduction of parafiscal duties, and the release of profits tax for reinvested profits, monitoring of strategic investments will begin to produce results as soon as possible. The pre-fashion agreements were also supported by the IMF mission and the European Commission, which recommended this measure to Member States with the aim of keeping non-leading businesses alive. In particular, the Commission requires Members to introduce these measures into their legislation within the year. So far, this hybrid process of resuscitating such businesses has been carried out by 14 other EU countries alongside Croatia. The results of the pre-fashion settlements are better than the bankruptcy that the data of the pre-departure settlements have been mentioned by the end of last year, as the settlement provided 53.3% of the claims, and most still were written off by banks, not the state. In the structure of entrepreneurs who have concluded pre-fashion deals, 93% are small entrepreneurs, craftsmen and free interests which actually deny criticism that only large entrepreneurs do. However, the most important result of pre-profit agreements is the preservation of jobs, leaving 22,000 workers to work for these companies. Significant results also showed a fiscalisation for which there was also a lot of resistance. In 2013, cash traffic increased by 2 billion kuna compared to 2012. The adopted and significant legislative framework for investment activities through the adoption of the Law on Strategic Investments, the Law on Investment Encouragement and Promotion of Investment Environments, while the Law on Legalisation of Legalized Objects actually enables further possibility of transport and placing into service of such objects. Through a small- and medium-sized business impulse in these two years, around 900 million kuna has been secured through co-financing, and only the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development through two years has specifically followed the economy with about 18 billion kuna. Of course, that's important because there are lower interest rates here, so it's more favourable and it's more convenient than what the business banks are following. The exit from the long-term recession is not easy and fast, but we believe that in 2014 there will still be a year of consolidation and at least as far as growth is concerned, or it will be minimal. We estimate there won't be a fall in the economy. Economic growth and employment are the only lasting and quality factors in the growth of budgetary incomes, and only in such circumstances can the current taxes be reduced, but also to extend the base for taxation and other incomes, i.e. real estate and capital revenues. However, it should be said that expenditures are also rationalised, officials' salaries are reduced, some salary fees, the introduction of a central salary account, equalising and rationalising employees' expenditures. It should be said that they are also reminded that debt pensions have been abolished. They are rationalized both material and other costs by introducing centralised procurement. Legislative frameworks for rationalisation and individual and fairer distribution of money for social purposes have been provided. In a short time, a new system will be adopted in the organisation of courts, individual organisational structures of state administrative institutions such as Customs, Tax Administration, public administration offices, etc., which will result in further cost reductions in this segment. Measures to reduce credit debt through privatization of part of unused state property, this time we have inventory of these assets, but so on and so on. monetisation should have a long-term impact on the less burden on the budget for interest. There's a master's plan at the end. At this very moment, the minister is presenting it to the public. And a more significant reform of the health system. All of this should ensure within three years that Croatia exits the excessive deficit process. With the adoption of the proposed amendments to the State budget for 2014 we now have an evaluation of the European Commission's action plan. We expect that the proposed measures embedded in the budget rebalancing will be strictly implemented and the planned reduction of deficits in the given time will be ensured. The SDP Club accepts the proposed changes to the State budget for 2014 with the corresponding documents.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74767	Thank you very much. Now we're going to a dozen replicas. First replica, Vice President of the House, Honorable Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74768	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, the Honorable Madam Vice President, you were expecting to defend this budget, but I'm going to ask you one question because the Honorable Minister did not literally answer any of the only questions he was asked, including mine, about what dramatic things have happened in the last 2.5 months and which they could not and could not have known or intended 2.5 months ago when the last budget was passed to this day? In fact, we know today that even this rebalancing can't be final, because I repeat it will be quite certain, because it is so announced that HZO will be isolated from the Treasury, so in the next 2.5 months we will have to rebalance the budget and this nonsense with new rebalancing every 2.5 to 3 months really seems literally ridiculous. It reminds me of that one cruel and ugly joke about a man who wanted to cut off a dog's tail, so he felt less pain every day that he cut it one centimeter at a time. In fact, it only points to repeated incredible wandering, not having any visions of where the Croatian economy and Croatia should generally go, and in a statement that the government has programmes I must say that it seems to me that the only programs the government has are those on state television. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74769	Replica's reply, the esteemed vice president of the House of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74770	You are no longer original in your replicas. What's the point of budget rebalance in 2.5 months? The same sense it made in 2009 when it was rebalancing twice in three weeks. Exactly because then the new Prime Minister was trying to solve those problems that had not been solved three years before. Therefore, some measures also take time to do so. And what a vision of economic growth or the economy and the overall state policy showed your government in 2011 when it ended a year with a deficit of almost 7%.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74771	Dear Representative Ivan Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74772	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Zgrebec, I always appreciate your rational exposure, but I must correct you. So everyone knows the fact that in 2011, we had two quarters of economic growth. So, the current government took over managing the state or economy after we technically left the recession. And we warned you the entire first and second quarter of 2012 of all the moves you're making to get us back, that is, the Croatian economy, into recession. And it's been happening for two years. Economic growth is constantly expected, I do not know by the spirit of the world, and it is simply evident that the current government and its ministers do not understand how to achieve economic growth, where economic growth comes from, why someone would invest, why someone would hire or keep jobs. The instability, i.e. the unpredictability of economic policy and tax policy, I was just talking about it. So, this government is abolishing the only measure that really relieved the economy, except that you've raised the VAT, you've explained that bringing down a health contribution will be discharging the economy, and now it's coming back. So, what is it? Message of a new economic downturn, fire people, don't invest. What if you don't? So do you understand after 5 or how many years, so these two years, especially the private sector is becoming weaker compared to the public sector, to public enterprises, and we expect new employment from this private sector. Well, we don't expect in the public sector, I guess I don't know how many tens of thousands of jobs next. The prime minister should not have gone to Australia for two weeks but could have received one of the biggest Australian companies in the country. He could hear why two years of people couldn't invest in any of the projects they were competing for. You know, it reminds me of this government as a sick shoplifter getting deeper and deeper into debt, there's no end, everything pulls after itself. I mean, it's time for someone to cut the cards and tell people enough, they can't do this anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74773	Thank you very much. Replica reply, Vice President of the House of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74774	Well, if 2011 had been as great as you say it would have been, then the sequel wouldn't have been like this. If we had 44 billion kuna blocked company accounts, if more than 6 thousand companies had entered into a pre-demand settlement, I can't remember right now how many such entities were in three of those settlement options for the payment of the tax debt and that in another situation were businesses then surely growth would have been in 2012 and 2013 and we wouldn't be in the excessive deficit process today. But fellow Milosevic, in two years we hear only criticism from you, we have not heard a single proposal, a rational proposal on how to get out of the economic crisis, unlike those of us who in the four years of our term in the opposition, have given tens of proposals to the law on how to resuscitate indifference, how to increase economic growth and precisely what we did in the opposition, today we have a policy run by this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74775	Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare-Ozbolt, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74776	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Vice President, you said that Croatia is having a difficult time dealing with the crisis, that is correct, it is, but because it is increasingly easier to deal with the rebalances of budgets that are practically more and more. It would be easier to discuss this budget rebalancing if it had come to the agenda in parallel with this debate and the government's mini reconstruction in those resolutions that practically did not bring results in reforms. At that time, it would be much easier and perhaps this rebalancing budget could be accepted more easily, since at least it would be a guarantee that one day it would succeed in economic growth. It's interesting to see charts in the CNB bulletin. You have one chart from which it is very nice to give a Croatian budget deficit as our economists say, economic theorists are not able to close without a sharp increase in budget revenues. How to increase the government's budget revenues has unfortunately not responded in these two years. One way is likely to change economic policy because, with these constant, increasingly frequent rebalancing, we are certainly not going to get out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74777	The reply to the replica, the esteemed vice president of the House, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74778	I think that we can all discuss this rebalancing on the basis of a report or an opening statement by the minister and that no one else from the government should explain it. I agree with you that the outcome of our budget is to increase revenue and that means, new economic activity, economic growth, etc. The government takes great care of that, unlike the period before, when we had economic growth on the wings of consumption and on the wings of consumption that was more in charge of both citizens and states. Today, all that is done in the greatest part is to contribute to an economy that cannot come out of these problems within a short time period of time, which I have said from liquidity to low capitalisation, under investment, etc. and only the fact that in three years, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development in Fundamental Capital will receive a billion and 800 million kuna from the budget and that in the previous 8 years it has received a billion and 700 says what the policy of this Government is.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74779	Honorable representative Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74780	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I have no intention of being original, but I'm going to make one remark and suggest one solution. You said that staff expenditures are shrinking, and that's probably a good measure for you when it's proposed by the government, but when it was proposed by the Labourists, it was demagogy. It was populism, we asked for solidarity with those who did not have and to increase budgetary capacity. I agree with you that pre-fashion settlements are better than bankruptcy with the fact that I think we should change the Pre-bank settlement law and do so urgently. And I suggest and also we propose amendments when it's going to change and it's announced from the government that when the rate, when the debt is written off, for example, 50% of the debt state should write off 50% of the VAT, everything paid for it, because people didn't get a kuna. And the other thing that, what is forgiven, should be entered into the ownership structure and I agree with a measure that is criticised very much to go back to the old, going back to the old and it is a contribution to health care, from 13 to increase or return to 15 with it being noted because the health system should be kept as an eye in the head. We warned, the Labourists warned that a further reduction of two index points of health contributions would not be employed by any worker. We were absolutely right.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74781	The reply to the replica, the esteemed vice president of the House, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74782	So this policy of reducing the staff's expenditures in the budget is not only about the reduction of debt salaries but also about certain allowances received by employees who have been financed from the state budget and this is in one sense more systematic than what you have proposed through only one law, you can be pleased that in one part your proposal is accepted. As far as pre-fashion deals are concerned, we have been working on this law on several occasions and will probably need to further improve it. The write-off of the claim cannot go into the underlying capital, or be entered in the capital or no write-off, you know that's when you go into the underlying capital then you don't write off the claim. Maybe that's not clear to you, but that's the way it is. And that's why I prefer this way we conduct dialogue on how to improve the situation in the Republic of Croatia rather than when we only go to criticism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74783	Thank you, too, dear vice president. Dear Representative Jasen Mesic is a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74784	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Vice President of the Parliament, I listened very carefully to what you said with so much calmness as if we were in surplus 13 billion kunas and not in deficits of 13 billion kunas. This calmness is not only seen in your speech, let's say on HRT you can't see a single programme related to budget rebalancing, but yesterday, in such prime terms, it is more likely to put the theme "Selections in the Republic of Serbia", not that the Croatian public can see what is actually hidden from this budget rebalancing and what should be one of the fundamental public interests of all citizens and citizens. As regards concrete proposals and concrete measures, it is not true that we did not give concrete measures and concrete proposals. In two or three ministries, I can tell you about a series of proposals that we could have encouraged employment, could stimulate growth in certain segments that would contribute to growth, to overall growth in the Republic of Croatia, nothing has ever been accepted, either in the amendments, or in the amendments. This budget rebalancing is simply a crossroads possible, what the Ministry of Finance should have politically touched or not should have been politically touched and tried to adapt it to the tables in this way to present it to the European Commission. On this budget rebalancing we will always spin around and warning our colleagues, we will have rebalances again because nowhere will we be able to boost economic growth and the finance minister will again accuse entrepreneurs, private investors of not wanting to invest, and we keep the remains, and I will show it to you in an individual debate, which we defend, which in the budget rebalances we touch, and... and what can bring new value.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74785	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed vice president of the House, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74786	No problem in the world has been solved in noise and jokes but in a peaceful, discreet atmosphere, so I'm holding on to it. As far as you're concerned, you're saying a lot of things you've proposed, and amendments, etc., so exactly from the Secretary of Finance's portfolio is a large number of amendments your club has just accepted, though. The minister was also very pleased when constructive proposals came, but as far as some other proposals were concerned, we did not see a proposal that would come in writing in any form, that you may have said something individually, any honor, but indeed we did not get from your ranks in this mandate a very well-formed proposal through some legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74787	Honorable representative, Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74788	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Vice President, you spoke in that opening section that the goal is to create jobs, increase economic activity, then only in one segment is very surprising when we talk on the one hand about it, and on the other hand we lift subsidies for the wood processing industry. It's a little illogical that something like this is happening. I will say that in the past 3 years, support for agriculture has been denied by 2.3 billion kuna and this trend continues. Why am I saying that? I'm talking because it's a sector that all experts say has the possibility of quickest self-employment and development. So we either don't reduce or not reduce public spending enough, we burden additional citizens and entrepreneurs in increasing the revenue side of the budget, and where we should actually fire a little by hand and give an opportunity, encourage new jobs to be opened, there we cut it. It just doesn't work out very well with each other. On the other hand, you also talked about the opportunities to exploit the EU funds' programmes and money. Here I have to draw attention to a problem here. So there's going to be this problem, there's going to be some legal issues to be dealt with, laws to be amended. For example, the Construction Act must be changed because hundreds of millions of kunas from projects are about to be prepared for infrastructure funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74789	The reply to the replica, the esteemed vice president of the House, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74790	I was expecting you to report to the replica that you'd be talking about agriculture. I imagine I know more about this than other areas, maybe because I've worked in agriculture for many years. Agricultural jobs are one of the most expensive jobs, to ensure a job for one employee you need several million kunas in order to provide him with work, from land to machinery, therefore it is not exactly exports, mass employment, in fact, we in agriculture, we had to reduce the number of employees and increase in industry, especially in the processing industry that will then process surpluses of agricultural products that cannot go to Konzum, so a slightly different policy should be conducted than you say. And as for the subsidies for agriculture, you forget that now as a member of the EU, we will have to make an effort to withdraw funds from the European agricultural budget and for direct payments and for rural development that is intended not only for agriculture but for the development of rural areas in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74791	Honorable representative, Đuro Popiè, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74792	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague, you've put a lot of work into it and, like, here's your colleagues finding... in an attempt to explain and try to defend what's obvious and what someone's said already, which is indefensible. You've listed everything the government has done more or less over the past two years, but the results are everything but what you've said. So we see where all these measures are and where all these activities led to the Croatian economy and brought Croatian society. You mention the great achievements of pre-fashion settlements, why don't you talk about the other side of the medal and the pre-profit settlement, and how many jobs have been lost just because of this model and this way of implementing this model of pre-fashion settlements? The estimate that over 50,000 jobs were lost in secondary and small entrepreneurship due to this way of carrying out pre-fashion deals. Do you also know if you have even calculated how much VAT is paid by the basis of an account that has simply been deleted in such a model of pre-fashion settlements to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs? How many crafts and businesses are closed and how many are in trouble today because no one is paying anyone anything anymore? You don't talk about these effects of pre-fashion settlement. Of course, it was in your best interest to resolve several important and important to you, and the consequences that everyone else suffers about it are kept quiet. You say that this model will accept all European countries, it certainly won't, it will accept only a possible name. but to whom it would occur in Europe to accept the models that the debtors themselves propose in their own resolution of their own nebuloses.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74793	Time. The replica matches the esteemed vice president of the House of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74794	Now as hypothetical as you went with the replica, I can answer you. And how many jobs would have been lost if instead of a pre-fashion deal went bankrupt? A bankruptcy that lasts 3, 5, 10, 15 years from which nothing is charged, how many jobs would that be? And the fact is that the European Commission has not even made a recommendation but requires that EU member states introduce instead of bankruptcy, so I listened to you, I did not make a fuss, introduce such a hybrid way for companies that are inequitable, estimate that around 1.7 million workers work annually in such companies in the EU. And instead of being proud to be a role model in some parts and EU member states, we here bagatelise and criticise every move made by the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74795	Next replica, respected Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74796	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So it's not clear on what the SDP club is talking about economic growth. In 2012, you predicted economic growth outside investment, you talked about an economic growth of 2%, a balance of minus 2%. In 2013, you talked about economic growth plus 1.8%, and at the end of the year we see that 1% is down. We warned and we talked all the time that you were unreally planning and that you were cheating not only on the Croatian Parliament but you're misleading the Croatian public. You're trying to show the situation the way she isn't. Last year, at the 10th month when we said it was unrealistic to expect, you reduced that forecast of economic growth for 2013 from 1.8 you reduced to 0.2% of growth. Then we warned you that the fall would be at least 1% as it happened. You had the biggest deficit in the last few years regardless of the economic downturn, in the last five years as you said it wasn't exactly because in 2011, we had a stagnation, we had two quarters as already said in the plus, the second and third quarter was 0.6 and 0.8% in the plus. Therefore, do not be fooled again that economic growth will take place because your prime minister's friend, Mr Vujcic, says that this year at least 0.5%, are indicators that are real. In pre-fashion settlements, it is not a Croatian invention, so there are pre-fashion deals in America, but there is a court involved. If you had sent someone to law school when there was a debate about pre-determined settlements, you'd probably have heard the real truth about pre-fashion settlements. There the court participates in this and decides what things a believer who has the right to search who does not. Therefore Absolutely this today is a corrupt instrument that is in action unfortunately. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74797	Time. The replica matches the esteemed vice president of the House of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74798	You're the one who called me about the deficit. In three years, 60 billion deficits.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74799	Please, colleagues, colleague Matusic, if you can't stand the reply to the replica, don't replicate, so don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74800	... in the financial consolidation of the economy in these two years, a large number of companies have been consolidated to the fact that such companies that pass the pre-fashion deal are also entered by strategic partners such as Dalekovod, one of the largest exporters, not products, not services, but minds as they say. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Investments that have been funded in these two years. They must produce results, so what will be completed in an investment sense will yield results in the coming years.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74801	A new replica, respected Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74802	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, it's not a very common situation to discuss here politely and pleasantly, but with you it's always you know how to talk, and you know how to listen. But when you say that you believe that in 2014 there will be a year of consolidation I would like to believe, but the projection of economic movements is not based on beliefs but solely on exact macroeconomic indicators. We had an announcement from the Government in 2012 that there would be a stop to negative trends and mild recovery, and in 2013 there would be a year of economic growth of 2.5 to 3% and that 2014 would be a year of boom. None of that came true. This rebalancing that is normally brought on whenever they occur and the rebalancing is due to the occurrence of extraordinary circumstances. At the time of budgeting and comparing today, no exceptional circumstances are available. Rebalance is a reaction to an extraordinary circumstance and actually this is a reaction to the unbalanced budget that was being made. The fundamental principle of the budget is balance. If he was unbalanced and there were no extraordinary circumstances, then there was rebalancing. I'm afraid that this rebalancing isn't actually balanced that it's going to prove to be a imbalance, not a rebalance. You talked about the use of EU funds and the impact on economic growth. The fact is also said by the minister that the EU funds are not revenue, but we have 3.7 billion kuna of expenditure only this year. And if we pull them back, we still have to co-finance and pay for it. And whoever's in a highly-positioned debt situation isn't, the result is zero. He didn't even pull a lip. You know how in Germany they call a position of no use and a high social position? Titel ohne Mittel, it is a demeaning name and we could use it to some in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74803	The replica matches the vice president of the House, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74804	And I've never heard anyone from the government say that in 2014, it's going to be an economic boom, I've never heard of it, I don't know where you heard it. Speaking of the European Union Funds, of course it does not enter as revenue of the budget. However, it is still in one part and budget expenditure but it must bring benefits to those who will benefit from these funds. Or if it will be used to encourage employment, we will have higher incomes than income tax. If it goes into investment, investments will give a new value again will be profit tax, etc. So, all that seemed in these two years and slightly more to the consolidation of the economy, especially the export economy, and through the measures implemented by the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development which last year, through direct funds, so loans and through guarantees given to the export economy somewhere around 20 billion kuna in just one year went away, from only one state institution to the economy, and to the export economy. Of course you say extraordinary circumstances when going into rebalancing, of course, only Croatia is too long in exceptional circumstances and because in the most difficult years of crisis when all of our environments have taken certain measures we have done nothing. In fact, we could hear no crisis here, there was no crisis, then once across the border it spilled into Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74805	The next replica, dear Joseph Salapic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74806	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Vice President, it's good, you have this calmness and it's good to talk to you. What I'd say at the beginning, this looks like the usual day in Parliament when it comes to budget rebalances. And I don't want to talk about rebalancing as some kind of evil that has happened to your government, but unfortunately, the situation is really that it's very difficult for us. And I am one of those advocates that it was necessary at the beginning of the mandate to introduce stricter and stronger structural reforms. Even so strong that your government might lose elections because of it, but surely your cheek wouldn't. Because if the former government continued to run Croatia, it would be in the same position as your government today. And whoever said that would otherwise not be telling the truth. So Croatia is at a difficult economic moment and it has been so for several years. Unfortunately, unlike our neighbors, we're having a hard time getting out of the crisis and it's just human beings to admit it. So let's just start with our party's proposals when we have advocated constitutional changes to reform the state administration, i.e. local administration and self-government, to remove unnecessary units of local self-government, a large number of municipalities, cities and counties, to try to sit together at the table and our consensus is inevitable if we really work for the benefit of Croatia. If we're going to have this political folklore that on today we have 50 registered, one is against, the other is against and no one is in favor of what to say and that is that Minister Linic is also leading the resort where he really leads him in difficult circumstances. And when it comes to the pre-fashion settlements mentioned above, we should not forget that we really wanted to save the fallen economy with that measure and that the opposition supported it. And we are advocates of always supporting such measures no matter how much they came from the ruling option if they are good for Croatia. The bankruptcy procedure is really too long. And what is sad and against it, some judges get too much into politics and too much prevent what the Croatian Parliament has brought. We pass laws and judges are obliged to implement them and interpret them in the way that everything should be governed by the law. But we have brought them, and they are bound to spend them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74807	And this replica matches Vice President Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74808	You're saying maybe at the beginning of the first year you should have gone with sharp budget cuts. So sharp spending cuts no longer advocated by the IMF, which was every time he came to a country, and even in Croatia he first said cut wages, pensions, giving, social benefits, etc. This year, members of the IMF mission, as well as here in the Croatian Parliament talks, say put emphasis on revenues and try to have lighter cuts on the spending side. In addition to these small salaries, small pensions are not really possible to have sharper cuts in the budget especially because you have high demands for social benefits. What burdens us the most in recent years in the budget is the dramatic growth of interest on loans. And that part needs to be solved. And that part should be solved even at the expense of the state getting rid of some of its assets in order to pay off the loans so that I could, as I say, breathe through the expenditures of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74809	Thank you. The last replica of the esteemed Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74810	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, of course, it's not the scariest thing in the world to rebalance the budget because it was, mentioned just before, and the rebalancing here in July 2009, once, and then again. And the rebalance serves to try to stabilize the state budget, so that ship is trying to stabilize so that it can take full sails to the high seas and that's certainly logical. However, you mentioned what is also of course the fact that only economic growth in this and next year can lead to full sails ahead, I will paint myself. But in this context, I mention again what Mr. Linic said earlier, saying about increasing the rate of contribution to health. Bono sincerely said that it would be a new burden for the economy, or economy. How they are the only ones who can open jobs is of course a closed circle and when it is added and the fact that they are taking part in getting public enterprises, which are also expected to invest, but we expect the economy to expect investments to be very hard to believe this growth this year is going to be that 0.2%. So that's what we need to worry about. Because if this does not happen at least that minimum 0.2%, so reduced forecasts, then I fear we will not achieve a planned deficit reduction as the EU asks us to, but not growth in the next and the next two years. And I think that's what our debate today needs to concentrate on, and these stories about whether it should have been reduced as far as contributions are concerned or not are now as the pace is said. But now it's proven to be a measure When the rate fell, it wasn't the happiest. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74811	The replica matches the vice president of the House of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74812	We have also advocated in the opposition that the health contribution is, or health care cannot be financed solely from the health contribution paid by employees and by part of pensioners with higher pensions. And even today, we think it is, we need to look for new sources to finance health care at least that basic health care for people who are not provided on this basis. Some people have been baffled, they said no matter what the 15 to 13% reduction is, it won't open a single job. So now I'm going to say, well, not even an increase from 13 to 15 is likely to fire any employee if that's how it was bagathellically 4 billion kunas in two years. However, the shareholders received significant funds for the reduction in labour prices in two years. Since the health system is very expensive regardless of any future rationalisation it will still be very expensive. Given the health care or health care system that we have in Croatia, this will continue to require high costs and will have to be financed from other tax revenues that we do not tax today with a health contribution paid by employees. And it'll be on the agenda sooner or later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74813	Thank you. We continue the debate by clubs after more than two hours of debate is the second club, the HDZ club and respected Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74814	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So here we have a fifth rebalancing in two years. Never in the history of the Croatian state has that happened. And what does that point to? It points to, above all, the instability of planning, misjudgement, false analysis. However, these five budget rebalances still have some common characteristics. So, first of all, the government is so-called. fiscal adjustment all these years through budgets and through budget rebalancing tried exclusively through tax increases. The second thing about the expenditure side, the reduction in certain expenditures, was not the result of structural reforms but of ad hoc cuts and the result was that the expenditure side of the state budget increased by 10 billion kuna compared to 2012. In addition, the government continues to wander by trying to close the deficit, creating vague situations, creating uncertainty in society and creating uncertainty in the economy. And what they could only do is that the deficit, so they tried to cut but not on the spending side because the expenditure party definitely can't be reduced by their confirmation without structural reforms, but rather tried to do it on the income side. And finally what do we have? And with that, we could practically stop with this debate. We have an excessive deficit and we have an increase in deficits that were never in the Republic of Croatia. And in order for this debate to take place in one tone that this High House deserves and with a single dose of seriousness then there is something missing from this document that we received from this House, which is that it never happened that the budget rebalance came without data from the previous year. Why am I saying that? So I'm talking about the reason to compare these data then you could also see where there were errors in economic policy and where the government was wrong and why this budget rebalance. But before I move on to the debate about budget rebalances. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary, and I'd like to ask you and myself a few questions. First of all, will the deficit in 2013 be 4.8% or will it be 6.5% as much as the Commission says? This means automatically much more start-up in 2014 and that means that this budget rebalance is practically not drinking water to close the criteria of the excessive deficit. If we add that in the first two months, value added tax revenues are less 3.5% than they were last year, then our concerns are even greater. On union information, trade unions have received some kind of inadmissible but first-degree rulings on complaints about wage cuts. And it's also one of the potential costs that certainly causes certain concerns. However, what is the biggest problem, which is that the share of public debt in GDP in 2013 increased from 56 to 67% in 2012 or 11% in no European country. The same as it did not happen in any European country that the deficit increased in 2013 compared to 2012. However, since at the end of the year we will use the so-called “. ” The ESA 2010 method where HBOR, HAC, Croatian Roads will be included in the country's deficit could grow to 87%, which means that Croatia can be forgiven for any thought of entering the euro zone or introducing the euro for the next 10 to 12 years. That's the facts. The facts to be discussed and the facts that should have been the basis for the debate on this budget rebalancing. Not to call on this or that, but to discuss the fact that in 2015 there will be no even greater burden on us in 2014 than in 2014. But what does the government suggest? The key economic, super economic move is to return the contribution by 2%. In other words, it is a public recognition of one failed economic policy or, according to one of my colleagues, a public recognition of the capitulation of economic policy. Because if two years ago it was a key instrument for redistributing the economy and increasing competitiveness and the reason for raising VAT, this is now easy to come back without any explanation, then it clearly says what the evaluations were and what economic policy was. So I repeat, the capitulation of economic policy. Such a policy has led us to 385 thousand unemployed, such a policy has led us to all negative macroeconomic indicators and colleagues and colleagues we can argue here as much as we want, but the fact is that in 2011, we had an economic downturn of 0.2%. If you'd stayed at that level, we wouldn't be in the problems we're in today. What happened to 2012? Totally wrong estimates, grades, and economic downturn as it is. The second pillar of retirement, something you just don't want to talk about. He does not want to talk that the second pillar is a retirement skeleton in the closet for some future governments. Why? Well, because there's always talk of skeletons here, given that some of the measures have come to collect in some other times, and this second pillar of retirement. It is clear that now the funds that are private savings for individuals in pension funds will be withdrawn in moments when the current law was adopted in 2009, I agree with Mr. Minister, as it is, their pension will be paid out of the state budget in some future times. And it's a cost in the future that won't have any income. Because if this money had stayed in the second pillar of retirement, then tomorrow he would have withdrawn from the second pillar of retirement at the moment when pensions were paid and would have been the income of the state budget. They're very interesting concessions. Well, we'll increase concessions. How? We're going to take cities and municipalities, we're going to cut them from 50 to 30%, we're going to increase the state from 30 to 50%, and that's an increase in concession income. So who's making a mess of concessions on the ground? The local self-government units or the state? And what's key, two taxes. VAT and profit. Are they realistically planned, Mr. Minister? Will the advances on the profit tax paid and will the final payments be settled after 30.04.? It's a question that needs to be answered anyway. However, it is a very interesting profit from companies. I'm very interested in what kind of company is this, given that Croatia is once in a minus 200 million and another million, which is the company from which the profits will be withdrawn? However, it will be very interesting what the CNB will offer to this government, how much money in view of the practice it has done in previous years? Because if the CNB is more generous this year than it was all the years before, then it's unfair. Then it's politically professional and economically irresponsible. Because how much of the HNB can be given at once, and so far it can't be given. So I remember years when the governor wouldn't even give a lip to the state budget as far as getting the CNB. And as far as the income side is concerned, another remark, a remark that is very dangerous. And that is that this government has announced that it will introduce some new taxes in 2016. 2016 is the mandate of another government, but the announcement of these taxes by colleagues and colleagues leads to certain things that will definitely happen, which is that the market for savings, the capital market and the real estate market will be broken. And it's already happening that people are shelling out money on a shorter deadline because they don't know what's going to happen in 2016. And that's why that message isn't good and it's bad. And as for the expenditure side of the budget, she's very interesting. We're talking about excessive deficit measures all the time we're talking about spending too much, but after all these carnage our spending side is growing by 100 million kuna. And you know why? Well, as the revenue side is not a problem of economic growth and economic activity, but exclusively of the new tax burden on Croatian citizens and Croatian economies, which are already burdened to the impunity, so neither the spending party is the consequence of any structural measure, it is not. Because when you look at expenses a little bit better, and now I'm going to go after them to explain everything I'm saying because I just don't want to go into political debates, I want to talk about facts, and when you talk about facts, then you're proposing concrete measures to whoever proposes a particular document. Sometimes, however, the facts are painful. So, the truth is that 350 million shipbuilding, one part not paid this year, and it won't be paid either this year, is missing 350 million shipbuildings that are so much talked about for some 9 billion kunas that the sparrows on the branch knew from practically 2009 which will be with those 9 billion kunas as I did in 2004, I knew that someone had renovated the shipbuilding with 8 billion kuna and that he had left me 8 billion kunas of credit that I would have to repay, I mean not personally but as a minister at the time. It's the same story as this nine billion, and if there was a deficit as it is now, then the deficit would have jumped to about 12 or 13%, but we're moving on. Birth leave, a reduction of 100 million kuna for itself, but to 385 thousand unemployed, reduce the assets of an active employment policy by 177 million kuna, I don't think it just deserves a comment. Investments if we haven't already bureaucratically removed obstacles, bureaucratic barriers to private capital, why are we reducing investment in the state budget by 500 million kuna. The reduction of the domestic component for EU funds because we come to what we are all talking about and that is the health budget. It's very interesting when we look at the total budget, then we increase it by 2 billion and 690 million, but we reduce the health protection position by 700 million and then we have two items, one health recovery from the previous years and the other one is the health recovery from the previous year. And now look if health care was provided with 19 billion and 300, 400 million kunas last year and if it's health care according to what's been written, this document has achieved a minus of some billion, 400 million kunas, how are we going to now reduce these reduced 19 billion if we reduce them by 700 million, how are we going to cover the same health costs with them because, as far as I know from this budget, I didn't see that any changes have been made to bring this health care into order. So it simply tells us that something is going to happen that's not good. Subsidies, agriculture, the economy down by 651 million kuna. construction of border crossings, whether Croatia is in the interest of entering Schengen as soon as possible or not in the interest of entering Schengen, reduction of 186,5 million kuna, HABOR reduction of 150 million kuna. However, it is very interesting to explain the part relating to wages. Thus, it is said that the reduction will, in fact, reduce the expenditure side of the budget by some 360 million but at the same time increase the revenue side of the budget as well as the expenditure side of the budget for some 260 and some million more due to increased health costs. And when the health rate went down by 2%, when we said it would benefit the state the most, then it was said it wasn't true, and now we say that we're going to have an increased cost. And finally finish. So this government is still trying with some kind of reforms that are not clear to anyone and that don't bring results. The reforms should definitely have been implemented earlier, the savings were either completely missed, investments due to bureaucratic obstacles are simply gone and all investors have long fled Croatian borders. It insists on further impacting the citizens and the Croatian economy, it is a tax burden and with these quasi measures the consolidation of Croatian citizens, the Croatian economy, Croatian businessmen and Croatian parliamentary representatives and all the citizens of Croatia have simply fallen into depression and this best reflects the atmosphere in today's assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74815	Thank you. As colleagues, I'd like to ask you now a little help and cooperation. Probably fewer MPs didn't sign up for a replica than they did. So, we have 27 applications, but it's not certain that we've made it, that the colleague was able to write everything down because you were reporting in parallel, short-sufficient, and it's possible that it was foreseen. I'll now read the names of everyone we've recorded, if we've missed anyone, I'm asking you to pick up. So, like Frano Lucić, Milicevic, Reiner, Popijač, Mesic, Jelusic, Ingrid Antičević, Jurjevic, Šimac-Bonačić, Josip Borić, Nadica Jelaš, Nekić Hrvoje, Prelec Allen, Posavec Krivec, Babić Ante, Gjurković Srdjan, Matošić Frano, Klarić Tomislav, Bačić Branko, Tomić Damir, Juričev-Martinčev, Glavak, Ronko, Panek, Vukšić, Jerolimov, Grubišić. Take it easy, so don't make a fuss. Put up a stick I haven't read, he'll answer. It's like this, my colleagues. I know you called earlier, I saw it, you didn't, you don't answer now, and I noticed you, I can put you in seventh place, ninth, you want to be first? Like this, who called before Shucker started? Boric, let's do this now, please raise the plate so we can write you down, write down,.../The speakers speak in the same voice./... Please, on this side, who answered? Who did we forget to sign up for? So now we've added Denon, Sobol, Kulusic and twilight, is that correct? Did we miss anyone else? Look to the break, you're certainly not going to get everyone's turn, that's for sure. Today, tonight we'll be working till 5:00 in the morning, but I guess that's the way it should be. Frano Matušić, first replica. Guys like this, I got... what? I'm sorry, Franco, I'm sorry. I started reading from this other guy. Franjo Lucic, first replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74816	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here, I listened very carefully to the presentation of my fellow Shucker and indeed, however it is said about capitulation in the economy, then certainly in this budget rebalancing we can also talk about agriculture which has also experienced capitulation because if agriculture is taken from 409 million kunas, from that to a direct payment of 29 million, so direct payments to farmers, in rural development 39 million kuna, imagine 79 million kunas. The wood industry, which today makes in RH exports 8%, we own 50%, or we have over 50% of the forest within Croatia in our territory, we're talking about a wood industry that can certainly employ the largest number of people and those people with the SSS. I'm really worried about why in this rebalancing exactly agriculture, where the wood industry is involved, has experienced such a decrease in the budget? Did Mr. Minister and all those who were doing the budget not realize exactly that this branch, and the wood industry is exactly that, first came out of the crisis and was just about to be given the biggest support because, as I said, this wood industry is just promising and guarantees that it will hire those people who are at the employment office in a very short time. Over $900 million is exports, so there may be a billion, and with new incentives there would be far greater exports and new employment, which is certain that it gives one guarantee of our economy's recovery. Why didn't you find the money for this budget, of course you have to bear the responsibility...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74817	Thank you. The answer... Here, that'll answer you Ivan Shuker, why they didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74818	When you look at the agricultural budget in 2011 and 2013, you will see that the reduction is almost on the incentives for a billion kuna, then by some 500 million it has increased in 2014 and is now reduced by this budget rebalance, but it is very interesting that these economic ministries, as I say, have suffered a reduction of one billion and 300 million kuna. So these are all the practical investments that were in the state budget were cut because it was probably the simplest thing to postpone. But the question arises what will happen to some basic industries, surely that the wood industry, especially in Slavonia, in northwestern Croatia, is one of the key economic branches. To whom and why it occurred to me that this wooden industry, which is truly closely related to the construction sector, which is at the moment the most affected in terms of the economic crisis, is thrown on its knees instead of allowing it to survive, is a question to be asked, not by the Minister of Finance, but by the Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74819	Second replica, Milicevic Davor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74820	I didn't answer, but never mind, I'll take a chance to say something. It's all right. I'm taking a chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74821	A colleague, like this, look at a colleague, like this. You're in the House, if you haven't answered, you have no word. Please sit down. Reiner Zeljko, please, vice president at home. [[Intruder Miličević: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74822	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. counsel Shuker, you mentioned the problem of health and it seems that this problem will either be solved or such an impression is created with these significant means that will be given to call a resolution that is not. And at the point of the Ministry of Health, the funds were really increased by 2,394 billion kuna. However, these funds include funds for this 3,2 billion recovery, and therefore funds for regular activity in 2014 are smaller by 706 million kuna, and they should all be aware of that. The HZZO's figure increased by 2,492 billion kuna, but for regular activity in 2014 has been reduced by 708 million kuna, as however... there are funds for a three.2 billion kuna recovery. In this respect, the specific problem is health care institutions, and this is a very important item, health care from compulsory health insurance, and since this item represents funds for financing the operations of health institutions, it is clear that 500 million kuna has been reduced in that item and this is indeed a threat to the current operations of health institutions in this year. Since most of this will likely involve about 300 million kunas to reduce hospital health care, all of these problems that exist very seriously in the health system at this time, mainly in the hospital work will only get worse in 2014 and everyone should be aware of that. It is a further reduction in the funding for current operations, it introduces new losses and liabilities, which are very certain because there are no structural reforms, none of which have been launched in these 2, almost half a year of this government and this is the problem of Croatian Health, therefore this money for called recovery will be thrown back into ruin, unfortunately nothing will happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74823	Here's Ivan Shuker's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74824	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Reiner, the Health Law defines what is being financed and how is being financed. Therefore, health care costs are financed from a health contribution, and that part of the costs for healthcare unsecured persons should be provided in the state budget. And that's why it's not clear to me if someone has already purposed to rule out HZZO from the Treasury why the Ministry of Finance didn't do it now, why isn't HZZO excluded from the Treasury in the rebalancing of this budget and to see these 4.5.5 billion kunas in how much of the government budget's obligations for health insurance people? Then the situation with health care would be quite clear and it wouldn't be necessary for someone to transfer it to someone else, if someone had left someone so much debt because if last year it was said that the health care was resolved then I don't know where this recovery is now for 3.2 billion kuna. But now that we can definitely expect somewhere in the 5th or early 6th month a new rebalancing of the state budget is 1.7. HZZO stands out, and that automatically means budget rebalancing then we will see how much the cost of health insurance people wastes on the state budget and be sure that it will lead to additional problems for Minister Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74825	A new replica, Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74826	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You are a lot of fellow Shuker in your presentation of the instructions of things that happened for the first time for the term of office of this government, unfortunately more or less all negative and five times rebalancing and the largest deficit and the largest number of unemployed, but there is certainly one more thing that needs to be added, and that is that Croatia is the only net payer in the EU budget as a new EU member. And it is true that the minister is talking about the cost because he had to pay 200m euros in the EU budget and he is correct in saying that the funds if they had been withdrawn would not have entered the budget. However, the fact that out of 450m euros available last year, Croatia did not withdraw a single euro. What would be the effect on the Croatian economy and on the Croatian economy, what would be the effect on the Croatian budget, therefore only by paying VAT, it is likely that the finance minister can calculate 25% of 450m euros is slightly more than 100m euros, what effect on the number of employees, and why is it not said about who is guilty why Croatia has not withdrawn a single euro from the EU funds available and what will be the situation of 2014 with this fund and these funds that Croatia has available in this year? Is Croatia preparing, will it withdraw this and whether again because of the inability or inability to withdraw in the course of this year or the year itself, there will be new problems in the budget and new needs for what rebalances?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74827	Answer Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74828	Thank you very much. Well, the simplest answer is that the minister says Croatia must pay its share in the EU fund and that is logical. However, it would be logical that his fellow ministers offered him a counter-response, which is that certain expenditures on certain ministries no longer exist in the RS budget but are financed from EU funds. Then we'd talk differently here, and there wouldn't be a need to fight at all. Why? Well, because on the expense side of the budget of those expenditures, there wouldn't be. Both colleagues and colleagues are the only truth, and here we can fight a fellow Drinker and convince each other as much as we want. Because where are we going to show income from EU funds? Well, it won't be revenue in the budget, but if certain credits for the development of entrepreneurship, if certain incentives in agriculture if certain loans for more equal regional development of the Republic of Croatia come to those who submit projects and receive these money, then Minister Linic will no longer have to plan these money in the budget with the resolution ministers, and that is the simplest explanation. We can now deal with an excateral story as the vice president tells us, but the result of the excatteral story is zero points. Therefore, I think that the minister would be happier today if he said the expenditure side of the budget has decreased by 700 million kuna, so the basis for past projects, past programmes that will be financed from EU funds, and there is no need for us to finance them more in our state budget than we will reduce the deficit by that amount, or we will direct these funds to other projects. Now that's the point of the story. But unfortunately if you bring down the complete system that you inherited, you start from the beginning, and then you justify that you don't have good software, then that best says it all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74829	Replica, Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74830	Dear fellow Shuker, you have made it very clear, and in general, as far as this budget is concerned, that you have given one general picture and one general cut, but in some ways I have failed to identify from your presentation on behalf of the club whether this budget contains an enhanced and one item that can lead to new employment, to new economic growth, to any positive effects to see that the Republic of Croatia is behind some of the moves that should be achieved in this and next year by those economic growth that the Government has declared. After your presentation, this could not be made clear, nor could any reaction from Mr. Minister of Finance be triggered. Apparently, Mrs. Vice President's calm has moved on to him, too, so this diagnosis you've given about the overall depression not only in the Parliament, but in the Republic of Croatia clearly stands. However, it is an ecultant disease that only draws us into a further economic downturn, not growth, so I would like to hear if there is any hope in this budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74831	Whether there is hope in the budget will be answered by Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74832	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I said there's depression, then it's hard to talk about hope in depression. But counterpart Mesic, sometimes ministers who write arguments for certain items in their budget would have to watch what they write. Because when you look at this item where a reduction of 177 million incentive employment measures is explained then it is said that these funds will be offset by the redistribution from other positions in the restoring ministry. Then what imposes on me as someone who doesn't understand things very much is that someone cheated on his colleague, Linic. That two and a half months ago he was asked for a lot more money than he needed. Now that there's a bang, then there's a big number and it's like this, there's a lot to take from it, and the explanation is that it's going to be compensated by the redistribution of the funds that were planned before. Well, you see, colleague Mesic. There's one law that the SDP was against when we passed it, and that's the fiscal responsibility law. And if someone were to follow the Fiscal Responsibility Act, when someone this easy to explain how they'd make up 177 million kuna would get from the Prime Minister by the fingers, it would be on the remote maybe with that spear of those Aboriginals, but it doesn't matter, it's important to get by the fingers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74833	Replica Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74834	Dear fellow Shuker, I listened to your debate, not just yours and your colleagues. So when I listen to you, everything seems to me if I hear it right. You speak from HDZ as if with this situation and this economic picture of Croatia you had nothing to do with anything like not eating onions or smelling onions. It's like you didn't create most of these problems and leave... this government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's how you act and say it. You speak as if you fell from Mars in this House, not from the government that brought these problems, created and left this government to solve. Of course, you may be entitled to it, you have the right to forget about it, and even to underestimate us here, but don't underestimate the citizens that they forgot that they don't see it and they don't know who led to these problems. When you were in power and while you were led by Ivo Sanader in 2008 when the crisis in the world started in Croatia should not have been said that there was a crisis. Those of us who warned it was a crisis, you were telling us that we were catastrophics. So you didn't want to admit instead of being admitted and looking for solutions. When you could no longer hide that crisis you made, true to God... a program you haven't realized. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You didn't want one reform first, and that's where I agree with you, the only grade I agree with you, which is that the reforms are late. That's right. But you're at least five years late in your grade, so you should have said five years ago that the reforms are late. Because that's when they were supposed to be started. You didn't start them because you were afraid if you start reform, you'd object to this or that and you'd lose power. In the end, you lost power and brought Croatia into an even more difficult crisis. And that's what you've been doing. You're talking about public debt. Well, only in the last three years of your reign, according to EUROSTAT methodology, did you create a 63 billion debt, you increased Croatia so much, your deficit was that high. Well, if it weren't for that, we wouldn't have a 60% debt today, but 40 or so percent of GDP. So I'm just asking you, you can underestimate us here, think we're forgotten, but don't underestimate the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74835	Answer Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74836	My colleague Jelusic, I don't know who you're replicating because I didn't talk about it. But I'm lucky I have a good memory, so we'll start over. As for public debt, in 2008, it was 28% share in gross domestic product. It took place in 2009, 2010 and '11. He's increased because of the crisis, he's increased by about 40 billion kunas, not 60 as much as you're talking about because what, the guarantees, what you're talking about, there are others... However, as the debt increased in 2012, 2013 and 2014 In 2012, you came up with some 10 billion deficit, the 2013 deficit is definitely going to be somewhere around 20 billion, and now you're going to be if it's like this it's going to be around 14 billion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And all together when you add up three years' worth of 44 billion. And my colleague Jelusic neither you have anything to be proud of nor we can speak of for those three years that something has been done. So we both did what we did or didn't do, and that's a fact. And you can't get away from her or me. As for this famous crisis, you do not know that Friday 9.10 p.m. was an attack on Zagreb Bank counters, 2008. If I was on my way back then and I had ordered from America to raise the insurance savings and it calmed the savings and there wasn't an attack on Monday... banks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is that when the finance minister was supposed to walk around Croatia and yell at the urlaphone we're in a crisis, people save yourselves and run into banks and destroy the banking sector? So something you can't deny the banking sector, the practically complete financial sector of the Republic of Croatia remained intact. The second thing, economic recovery measures, God forbid you continued them until you made a better substitution than that, probably in 2012, you wouldn't have an economic downturn of 2% but it would have moved somewhere between 0 or 0.2 or 0.3%. However, your wrong economic policy has led us to what has led us. I repeat, you inherited in 2011 with two positive quarters and the last quarter was negative but in 2011 total was negative 0.2%.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74837	New replica, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74838	You say colleague and immediately introductively, the government is trying to wander in search of a solution with this rebalancing budget. You're still saying that the company plans to take away the profits. First of all, I want to say that when no one takes action, they're in an impossible situation when they're trying to find possible solutions. Even then, no one can guarantee success. But the crisis is, in any case, a cause for a change in old, failed behavior. This is indeed one step, and we expected this, support in the right direction in equating income and expenditure in the lower budget deficit and public debt. This could just result in higher economic growth and one political stability. And finally, once a citizen's blessing for a long time. There's no shortcut here, dear colleague. The Commission presented its Report on the slowdown mechanism in November 2013 and said literally, more specifically, that means that the macroeconomic imbalances of Croatia accumulated during the expansion phase by 2009 and you are constantly denying it. You know very well that Croatia has been stolen, and we already have an inadmissible verdict. So there were cases where they simply bowed down and sucked out of Croatia on their mother. We did not suck out of Croatian companies that we then collected honey as bees in 2003 and were full of profits. You pulled out of it right away at the beginning of all the profits. This is when you know that Croatia has been stolen and you speak on the other hand a little more criticism. You are an opposition, you must be responsible for the opposition. If you have been irresponsible, try to be a responsible opposition now, help with some solutions, do not shine depression. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] If you stole from Croatia, don't steal her hope!
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74839	Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74840	Look, fellow Anticevic, you as a graduate high-level lawyer should still use your arguments a little bit more, not throw yourself around like this. You know, if you knew how many INAs were down in 2003, you'd fall off that chair. How much HEP was down, how many other state-owned companies were. Therefore, do not say that you have left a state of state in public enterprises. You've left the chaos. Just like you left the state giro account of the Treasury with 300 subaccounts containing 800 million kuna. And that's, of course, transparency, and you inherited the State Treasury with one account, without a sub-account. A discussion of responsibility, irresponsibility. My colleague Anticevic, I was just on behalf of the club trying to warn the facts or maybe direct the government to some things. However, it is evident that the Ministry of Finance could not, at its best, repair the inaction of other ministries. And you must understand that the revenue side cannot be built on the coat of arms of Croatian citizens and Croatian entrepreneurs. Because they just don't have anywhere to pay the tax anymore. The revenue side must be charged with economic activities. That's a fact. And the spending side can only be reduced as a consequence of structural reforms. And if you in health say we don't want this kind of health care, but we want this kind of health care, it costs so much and so much is your political assessment and assessment. We'll agree to that or we won't. It's our political risk. But if in two years it shows success then they've made a political failure. But if you as a government haven't done it, and you haven't done it because I won't be dishonest and attack my colleague Linic for some things he's not guilty of. But I'll also tell him in his face about the things he's guilty of because he didn't make the tax package in the package. If he couldn't make it in the package, he shouldn't have done anything because he wouldn't have created such a deficit. That's a fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74841	Replica Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74842	Thank you. Comrade Shuker, you said the new government is creating a quote on security in society. This statement of yours reminds me of the already anthological statement by the president of your party, Mr. Karamark, who was nothing less than talking about the terror of crime today. Today, as long as the verdicts are as they are to those who are, and as far as we are concerned, we are going back to that because you are attacking this government as it is responsible for everything, and the answer is not this Government but the European Commission, the institutions that are above our political differences and conflicts. And the European Commission clearly says that all the trouble, that the source of all the evil in terms of the economic situation and the moments that are burdening this society today, was between 2008 and 2011, when your government was in power, when it was not responding in the way it should react to the conditions of the crisis. Or translated simply wasn't doing anything to get over it. And that's what HDZ's government left in the Croatian people's domain? In the last three years, you have left behind nothing less than 63 billion kuna deficits. The HDZ government left 2.8 million kunas not paid. Your ministry has a debt of 800 million kuna. So that was the situation. In 2013, we had about 11.7 billion deficits. Of that, the interest on public debt was 10 billion deficits, so now, in such conditions, dream of how to repair overnight what has been broken down for decades. I think you need to be a little more realistic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74843	The replica matches Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74844	Comrade Jurjevic, I know the numbers aren't close to you, but this is how one of the political alien rhetoric is. But in order for me to deny what you said. Do you know how many Croatian citizens will pay interest annually, every year for the next 8, 9, 10 years on this deficit that you have made these 3 years? You know how much? Count on 45 billion average interest rate 6% how much is that? 2 billion and 600 a year. These are the interest of your term of office. And don't pick up any ideas. So the interest that concerns those 4 years of your authority when you made 40 billion deficits were the moment you took over the government was 7 and a half billion kuna. Everything that's grown has grown on this side and has grown in part by taking over the guarantees of shipbuilding. And let's talk about the facts of my colleague Jurjevic. When we talk about facts, we may find a solution to the problem. But if we run away from the fact that we would politically prove to someone who is unproven, unfortunately, we won't solve the problem. And that's your problem. That's exactly how you approach problem solving, and that's why you're on a historically high deficit today. As for the European Commission, counterpart Jurjevic and the excessive deficit measures are the only document sent to you by the European Commission. All this other stuff is stories for little kids. Well, I know exactly how the IMF writes. All living sales should be sold out by the IMF in Croatia. So the IMF 2000 told you to cut your wages, don't pay off Christmas cards, don't pay off the regress. And what happened? Between 2003 and 2006, Croatian citizens paid court rulings of 2 billion and 600 million kuna from their budget. The IMF didn't pay them. We don't need the IMF telling us what we're going to do, but the Ministry of Finance always knew what to do is just ask if others know and if others are willing to do what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74845	New replica, Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74846	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Schuker, in your discussion, you've been telling the facts of what you think our government actually made a mistake during these two years of work. I'm not a financial expert, but I have to point out that there are economic movements, that there are good and bad cycles. And during the good cycles, of course, the calculations are in surplus which has been in the past period of such a time. However, the basic problem in those moments was to give to anyone, how to spend that money. Of course, there have also been uncontrollable budget payments to ensure social peace, but I wonder if this government was responsible? No policy was seen for tomorrow, diversified, paid tables increased, and various subsidies increased. That way, in my opinion, he was insinuating an unhappiness. At the time of such expansion that was budgetary, supplies were to be created, not to think about who to give it to, or what groups of citizens to give it to. The state, unfortunately, and the budget, was used as an instrument for some of its own pockets and then you wonder now where our government went wrong? A government that's actually trying to get back to normal. When you talked about the reforms that were late, you were obviously as aware as you were personally, and this was seen when you were Minister, when you were bringing the 2009 Budget, which was in terms of fiscal consolidation, but you had no courage or politics allowed you to go into such reforms precisely because you saw our citizens as voters, not as citizens who needed help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74847	The replica matches Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74848	A colleague of Bonačić's response to what was not done when the 2009 Budget was adopted came in the 2nd month when it started to rebalance and when the budget fell by 9 billion kuna. Then someone who refused to make such a decision at the 11th month admitted a mistake and corrected it in two months. But we lost momentum to maybe do something else since 2009. So that's a fact. And if you're saying someone bought the rights of certain target groups by giving uncontrollable money to me if I were to claim what you're saying, then he would suggest to his government to abolish those rights. 'Cause if you're sorry, if you're saying someone was giving someone rights that don't belong to someone to buy their votes, then that's what they need to go public and say the HDZ people were buying that and that, we don't think it should be done and let's get rid of it. My colleagues, this law that we passed last week is faithful to the service of 4, 8 and 10% do you know who brought it? The government of late Prime Minister Racan, signed by Vice President Granic. Why? Because there was a huge strike of educators and that they were calmed down by the collective agreement, the supplement on pay because their wages were underrated. And that contract lasted all these years. How's that story gonna end now that it's broken this way I don't want to talk about it. But this problem was proposed in 2010 with the amendment of the Labour Act, where no one's right was taken away only said that collective agreements signed in a different economic environment would cease to apply and new collective bargaining would begin which is an adequate economic moment. You didn't recognize it then. If you recognized it then, it would be much easier for you today, and we probably wouldn't have won or lost the election because of that provision, so we'd have passed. But you've lost a lot and it shows what it means to make a wrong political assessment at a given time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74849	Now follow the replica of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74850	Thank you, Vice President. Well, you don't have to be angry with your colleague, the most important SDP program is over, the chairs are divided, the responsibility for the government's behaviour is given to the opposition and the people. They just forgot that the people are now waiting for him to assess. To assess not GDP growth or anything but to assess their behaviour in the past tense. They look back at us, we've occupied their attention, every debate starts with you. They didn't realize their mission at all because if they did, they wouldn't be getting what's happening to them. In 2011, income 107, expenditure 120. 2014 revenue 116, expenditure 128. So nine billion kunas of income and eight expenditures higher with a lot of savings. I don't know which professor of economics would give two for such an claim and for such settings at the Faculty of Economics. So we're saving and we're making more money and we're spending more. And what happened in the meantime? Reduced salaries to everyone, several times, not once, have been reduced several times. A destructive health system, reduced subsidies to agriculture, has gone to the non-refundable thousands of small economies. Educational system impoverished. I'm reading these days, our kids are hungry at school. At the same time, there are cars, smart phones, traveling from Bali to New Zealand. The number of completed properties in 2 years increased from 3000 to 6900 completed properties. It's a threat for many to get out of their homes. 100,000 newly blocked in two years. The amount of over 8 billion more. In addition, 60 billion were charged in three years and exceeded the average of the previous term in 2000-2004. And now we sell the tourism sector and transport infrastructure for invaluable purposes. With a smile, they're obviously taking us to bankruptcy while the left orchestra plays Titanic. I think we only live from rebalancing to rebalancing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74851	Here's to these objections from Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74852	Comrade Boric, I will not answer your objections, but I will just try to strengthen them a little more and support them. One company called Plinacro solved the practical problem of the energy crisis, the potential in Croatia by building a master gas pipeline from Fažana to Zagreb and then to Dalmatia. Look, fellow Boric, this great investment was led by one member and came to Kukuriku coalition to power and now you have a Croatian firm and Italian that draws it together in the Adriatic, you have a Croatian gas pipeline and now suddenly with the flow of gas can no longer be managed by one man but has to manage them five, and why five, because you couldn't share a coalition cake. But fellow Boric, it's all wonderful and wonderful when it comes to explaining the growth of the budget. However, as it grows because of Europe, it should also fall for Europe because Croatian citizens, regardless of what their colleague says, did nothing because of the great reforms that Croatia had to do if we had not done so, would not have some of us who are so critical of us today have bragged to enter and enter the EU 1.7, but would have used it to make Croatian citizens feel all those reforms that have been implemented and that may have gone to their harm, and that is why they have been implemented. But fellow Boric, do you know what would be a great thing if our prime minister went to Australia now, that those whom the criminal communist regime has driven out of Croatia said to my fellow Croats, my fellow citizens, come to Croatia, we will not tax your pensions and you will have the right to health insurance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74853	Now a little more replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74854	Comrade Shuker, you said in your debate that we do not have the courage to resolve the deficit by reducing the expenditure side of the budget, but we do it primarily on the revenue side. So you're telling us you don't have the courage, we don't have the courage to apologize. You who didn't do anything, didn't even admit there was a crisis, and while other countries were actually adapting their national economies to crisis conditions, you pushed your head into the sand and the European Commission told you just last year that the biggest part of today's problems faced by 2009 and 2011, you had how you say it historically the highest deficit, 7%, except that you didn't show it, so he came to us for payment just last 2013. Why do we deal with the deficit primarily on the income side and not on the expenditure, and the IMF has also given up its standard model or standard requirement to cut wages, to cut social benefits, to cut pensions. Because it's also low wages and pensions and social benefits. There's no point in cutting it any further. And it is he who recommended that the primary deficit, or fiscal consolidation, be worked on the income budget, and we do so. So, by not cutting wages, pensions and social benefits, we actually show social sensitivity and that's our policy. And your policy, her primary goal was to entangle the party and that's why you got the crown prize, this verdict you got recently. So I'll say one more thing. You said that the funds for active employment measures are being reduced. So, you manipulate this rebalancing is done in relation to the originally planned size, so the originally planned funds are being reduced and these funds were far higher than the ones you planned in your budgets.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74855	Answer Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74856	My colleague Jelash, with this story that someone has not confessed to this crisis, etc., it's simply empty stories. So remember that tax, what you called it. Well, after that, you brought in a super hack. It was one of the measures where it was fairly acknowledged, we can't do anything on the expenditure side, we did it on the income side, but it was publicly said. And don't forget, colleagues Jelash, Croatia was the first country in 2009 after four months to issue bonds on the US and European markets. You can check that, so if nothing was done, investors wouldn't give us an interest rate that's almost identical or slightly larger than today. Therefore, do not say that no one has done anything. I'll never put myself in a position to tell you not to do anything, but to build some things wrong, I'll tell you that and you can see it from these papers. Because you simply can't say after two years that the income side can be solved exclusively by tax increases. It's something that just doesn't work. There must have been this economic shift that was filling the revenue side. And you're talking about the spending side, that at the time the revenues fell by two or three years, the government budget expenditure had to be reduced and the salaries and pensions were reduced 6% and once again the officials had 10% reduction in salaries. So, what are we talking about? The Economic Recovery Programme is currently short-term and long-term measures. It all said in there, why didn't you continue it? I don't know if you kept doing this, I guarantee you that you didn't go to these tax expeditions today would have had 6 billion less deficits.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74857	Replica Hrvoje Neklic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74858	Comrade Shuker, in your debate, you said that you advocated the consolidation of the state. I really think that's what you think. However, on how the HDZ, the former prime minister and individual ministers advocated this consolidation, it seems more to me that they have advocated the consolidation of their own assets than for the consolidation of the state and, unfortunately, to the burden of all Croatian citizens. And I agree with you that the facts that we need to talk about and the facts are all that matters.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74859	Answer, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74860	Young fellow, dishonesty, no honor has a name and a last name. I didn't mean to discredit a colleague at all, but I apologize to my colleagues if you SDP colleagues think I'm sorry! I'd rather have told you than told you otherwise, but okay, never mind. So dishonesty has its own. Some processes are being conducted in your party as well. It doesn't occur to me to tell these colleagues I've known for years to apply to them, so each one should bear his own story. There were about 20 companies in there running, I don't know, maybe they'll be explored just by direction and arrow going towards someone else, so let's play this story, this story that we're talking about today is far more dangerous for all of us in the long run, because if we don't get out of this, not this year, this year is unfortunately already easy to go, and bad decisions now and in the next two months we'll suffer in 2015, and 2015 is election years, colleagues and colleagues, so don't forget that in election years are always worse than the year before. Therefore, we are no longer in danger in 2014, but are in danger in 2015. And that's what I tried to say in my debate, and if that debate hit the center, it best shows your replicas because no replica went to anything that was specifically said, but you're saying this or that. Look, colleagues and colleagues, each of us has to suffer a thing, politics is like that, like it or not. Just like it's nice to take credit, etc., but that's right, but this is about the future of all of us, this isn't about SDP, HDZ, if evil happens, and if we're going to hang out in the mud, we're going to hang out in the mud no matter what political party we're in, and the debate on behalf of the HDZ club just went that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74861	Next replica, Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74862	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It's simply an alarming amount of insolence and insolence between you and HDZ, but underestimation is all of us sitting here. But also those who watch it on small screens. [[Intruder Stazic: Please calm down.]] You act like this crisis, which today is a major crisis, where people have a very difficult life, has absolutely nothing to do with you. You've got ash on you and that's it. I'll just say that in 23 years of the existence of the Croatian state, you've been leading for 18 years. Some of you were both ministers and state secretaries, vice-presidents of the government, and nothing to do with you. Minister Linic also spoke of a report by the European Commission which said that most of these situations today stemmed from irresponsible behaviour by 2009, which was not to mention privatisation or robbery, rather, which was just under your patronage until the purchase of voters in 18 years of various incentives, false pensions, benefits. You closed your eyes to what your HDZ president and prime minister did in six years, robbery, theft, he stole. It's not a hoax anymore, it's facts. If the verdict is annulled, I'll apologize, not steal, but you've all been involved in it, you've been a part of it. I must remind you that you were Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister at the time of Mr. Sanader. It was you. If you had done something in time when it was certain that there would be a crisis, it would have been different today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74863	Now you'll get a chance to answer, no throwing, fellow Shucker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74864	My colleague, Mr. Vice President, it would be good if somehow with the same scale you were running a session, but well, that's yours,...there's no need to comment. Dude, when you're talking, you're telling the facts. During Sanader, I wasn't the Deputy Prime Minister, so it's something that I could give you what you served your colleagues, but I never use such rhetoric. But I repeat that the debate on behalf of the HDZ Club has hit the center, most precisely, your replica speaks best. Because you've replicated something that has nothing to do with this rebalancing or the situation in the Republic of Croatia or anything. But I'm telling you a colleague so some processes are being conducted against the people in your party, so I could set up the same thing for those 75 or 85 thousand euros that were seized on the Bosnian border? But I simply don't want to use such rhetoric because who's going to carry 80,000 euros across the border today, as if he doesn't know anything. But why should I accuse your party of it, I don't think so, but my colleague and I have known each other for a long time and therefore there's no need for this debate. Let's talk about the arguments, I'm ready for any argument and any facts to oppose the counterargument and the fact, maybe I'm wrong, but let's talk about it if we want to do something good. And you're always complaining that we didn't offer anything, so here we are today, we've told you concrete things, too. You served in a four-year opposition term of 40 and a few other laws. Have you applied any of these laws when you came to power? You're not. You talked about reducing your health contribution from 15% to 7%. Look, you cut it to 13% and after 2 years, let's get it back quick. What, then, were we supposed to adopt that or some other measure? Comrade, let's be serious and at least a little tolerance and respect for each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74865	New replica, Ivana Posavec The Guilty. Ivana Posavec The guilty, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74866	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It's hard to go back to all this stuff that my esteemed colleague Schucker said on behalf of the HDZ Club, but I'm just gonna hang on to something. Speaking today, on behalf of the HDZ Club, you have touched the inadequacy of certain structures financed from the budget. I will refrain today, and I will not comment on these frigid inadmissible verdicts, even though the same concerns the users of the budget. I'm just going to stick to the notion that the budget is our responsibility, that we, the policies acting in power, are responsible for what happens with the budget in that segment when we act in power. So you were also responsible as Minister of Finance for certain phases and budgetary cycles. In these budgetary cycles, you were fortunate to have had, for example, 2007 to 2008 and budget revenues on the rise, approximately at a rate of 5% to 8% a year, you had a surplus then. What happened? What happened in the meantime that we inherited such a deficit in our budgets? Where did all those shipbuilding guarantees go and everything that comes out of the closet today like skeletons? There we had a GDP deficit of 3.5% in 2012 and in fact this government of Minister Linic has shown that it is known to deal with the consolidation of the state budget and state finances. And then the situation happened again that threw us away a few years ago, and it happens all the time. We've had a medical emergency. Well, now I'm wondering how we're gonna get back to how you said somewhere I wrote down all those investors who ran off the Croatian borders. So, a colleague of Shuker, who was investors at the Croatian borders who fled when this government took responsibility for state-leading because this government has shown itself to all measures to help raise employees and return GDP to a positive.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74867	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74868	You see, colleagues Posavec, it would be good for those thousands of pages of material made by the Ministry of Finance to be read in the budget and read among other things how many years there have been guarantees for shipbuilding. But there is one case where the Ministry of Finance couldn't guarantee 3 May because of the EU Commission because the Competition Protection Agency said it was an illegal guarantee and you know what happened? The City Council of Rijeka, beyond all legal regulations, makes a decision on a guarantee, against the law. But let's leave it. You were talking about skeletons, you know what these guarantees we gave HZ 2 billion and 300, 400 million over the last two years, you know what that is? It is a skeleton for the government which will be 2016, 2017. Why? So because the ESAs 2010 will count on the government budget deficit and what we're going to hear again. Or, let's say, eight billion shipbuilding from 2002, 2003, too. Well, have you ever heard the story of the deficit growing because of that? But fellow Members of this deficit in 2014 is unfortunately to make it a literal difference between income and expenditure and the business of this government. Here you have no leftovers, here you have the consequence of your inaction on the expenditure side, and here you have the result of the wrong grades and the assessment of tax laws. Here you can no longer find a single item that refers to something that HDZ has done or has not done. And as far as the lawsuits are concerned, I made it clear that it was the civil servants' lawsuits to cut the salary of 3% and that some of these charges were received first-degree cases, so they are not in the power. And he said only as a possible skeleton like the 2004 skeletons, 2005 lawsuits of 2 billion and 600 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74869	A new replica, Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74870	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In your address, you said this was the 5th budget rebalancing in two years and you wondered what that was really saying? Is this the Ministry of Finance's policy? You said it wasn't, and it's actually the government's policy of the Republic of Croatia. And if you look at that policy of the government of the Republic of Croatia, then it is concluded that this government has waged war with everyone in two years and with all the social groups with whom it could from the unions of doctors, farmers, teachers, professors, academic community to employers. Those who know, and that is for sure, Minister Linic knows that budget expenditures can best happen when structural reforms occur. But what you need to know is that budgeting happens from economic activity. I remember very well that Minister Linic was also angry with us when we said that tax screenings are impossible to happen to stimulate domestic but also foreign investment as seen now. In the absence of all these investments, there has been a decline in economic growth, but there has also been a budget deficit which is white today. Perhaps even from this budget you have not touched are reduced funds for Croats outside Croatia about 2.8 million kuna. I don't think that meant anything in this budget and that this item should have happened and it's actually talking about this government's policy towards Croats outside Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74871	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74872	Look, counterpart Babić, many have cut costs by passing them practically in 2015 because some expenditures cannot be eliminated because every ministry is a living tissue and works and just cut it down a little bit and give it a little more next year. However, such as the economy, strengthening the economy is the only way for quality, continuity and long-term budgeting, so reforms are the only way to cut the expenditure side of the budget. If we are not able to implement this, then you better tax the budget's spending side at that level and say for the next three years there is no increase in the expenditure side of the budget and almost. And with the revenue side, we'll make out as we know it. However, if you go this way and say that what has been done so far is not good and you say that public companies will be the bearer of economic recovery, and at the same time when you like it, then you say that the HDZ government has left chaos in public enterprises, that these public enterprises are no good and that it is a disaster. And then the end of the year comes again, and let's say now let's take a profit from these public companies. So what's the truth now in the end? Is it true that public companies will be the bearers of investments if they will be the bearers of investments means they were not in chaos. Is it true that these public companies are a mess of not doing anything wrong? If they are, then they can't be the bearers of this. If you add this up first and second then you have no one to take a profit tax from, and then it's your income side. And as for these funds that were taken by Croats outside Croatia, so you know what maybe the prime minister thought about taking it with him and giving it down with the Croats but they wouldn't take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74873	Replica, colleague Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74874	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, I would be happy to replicate with you on a matter of concrete and fact. So you said it was an excessive deficit he never was. You know very well that the ESA's 95th methodology was applied in 2013 and that it was implemented for correction four years ago. And according to that methodology, because the figures need to compare both the rebalancing and the deficits between the years, and then it is clearly said and seen that in 2009, according to ESA 95, the deficit would not be 3.5%, but 5.3 and 17.4 billion, respectively. In 2010, it would not be 4.4 but 6.4 GDP, or 20.6 billion kuna, and in 2011, not 4.3, but 7.8% of GDP, or 25 billion kuna, respectively. And these are clear facts comparable to the deficit that is this rebalance, which is 13.5 billion, so it's not an excessive deficit that has never been according to the ESA 95 methodology. You also said there were no investors, that investors were running away. Is it an accident? Of course not, but the merits of the government and the measures of this government. Just now 5 hotel companies have found investors and 20 years have been co-financed by taxpayers from Vranjica Belvedere, Hotel Podgora, HTP Korčula, Hotel Meden, Hotels Živogosce. Whether or not the measures taken by this Government are a pharmaceutical sector in the intense investment cycle 2013/2014. Over 2 billion kuna years. Not to mention the realization of new investment projects worth more than a billion euros.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74875	The replica matches Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74876	Comrade Gjurkovic, it is simply not good to distort the facts, you have a 2011 deficit of 15 billion, and it has been reduced to guarantee over the past 9 years of shipbuilding. Also, someone could register these guarantees for all the past nine years, and then there would be a slight growth in deficits. But let's just say it's just as you say it is. Although the deficit was 15 billion but that and that 15 billion deficit in 2011 increased to 21 billion and 2013. That's a fact. And let's just say that you now have that shipbuilding for the past 10 years, then your deficit would be 30 billion kuna. And we can play ball now, one way or another, the Ministry of Finance of the Nine Billion shouldn't have paid either in 2012 or in '13. But as wars prevail, the only thing that pays on a continuous basis is interest. So the problem of the 2014 deficit is that it's real life expenses relative to the actual living incomes that are the way they are. And that's the key problem. And when we start to look at this problem that way, and when we take a nice look at it in the spiggle, we say that and we become aware that it can't be solved without reform. I can at the Ministry chemistry as much as I want left, right, this house, that house, but if budget users don't implement a reform that will reduce expenditure, if the ministries that need to open up space to investors don't remove bureaucratic barriers, then we'll have what we're talking about today, and that's a fact. And about that fact, we can fight politically, throw mud at each other as much as we want, but that's the problem we have left. And so that story, you had this, you had this, so compare 15 to 21 is the only thing that's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74877	A new replica, Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74878	Thank you. You said that this rebalancing is the best proof of the government's economic policy, i.e. the Government's corn. Don't go too far with the speeches in favor and the statement that came from the European Commission a few days ago, which I'm going to read in a summary section. So, the European Commission says: "Apart from the excessive deficit under the supervision of the European Commission, Croatia also has excessive macroeconomic imbalances that also require special supervision and effective measures by the Croatian government. In a deep analysis of the Croatian economy, European Commissioner Olli Rehn's team revealed these macroeconomic discrepancies in Croatia. Export results are in decline, companies are over-indebted, public debt is increasing rapidly and all this is happening in the context of a decline in economic growth and poor capacity for adaptation.". In other words, the Commission estimates that Croatia has too little capacity, to reform and change the discrepancies that are dragging it down. As a result of the deep analysis, the European Commission mentions in its document on Croatia that, according to current trends in the absence of additional measures, Croatia is at risk of significantly failing the set targets for reducing the excessive deficit in 2014. So it's quite clear that you were right when you said it was about the capitulation of economic policy of the government's corn. But what is even worse for Croatia is the measure of excessive non-compliance which will be decided by the Commission in June of the month. So we could have two measures of the European Commission which are essentially speaking that this government is incapable of bringing Croatia out of this situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74879	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74880	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Matušić, so unfortunately in Croatia we love some reports when someone sends us only what suits us and what doesn't fit us, counting on no one to see it. Today virtually all documents are available. And there are two if, if achieved, Croatia will have an economic growth of 0.2%. One if by this rebalancing budget has already failed. And the European Commission has made it clear that if Croatia and the Croatian economy use the possibility of using the European Funds, then 0.2% will happen. Another is if Croatia undertakes certain reforms and consolidation of the state budget. The fact that the European Commission has praised some things, so they have to say something that is good, can't say everything is bad. But these are two key ifs. And I repeat that this first one is far more dangerous. Because those taking care and who should have directed both Croatian entrepreneurs and units of local (regional) self-government to withdraw money from the EU budget would have been easier for several billion kunas to ask the Ministry of Finance. Why? Because these expenditures would no longer be the cost of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia but would be financed from the EU and, at the same time, it was necessary to provide those entrepreneurs and local self-government units with a credit line so that they could practically finance these projects until the moment they receive funding from European funds. So, everything has its own why, and the European Commission has given us its two if and if we don't do it, we won't have a growth of 0.2%.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74881	Replica Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74882	Comrade Shuker, you were talking about the expenditure side for the economy, investments, agriculture, the wood industry that these funds were reduced and that it was ok. if the Government, the ministries seek to secure these funds from European funds. At this point, we are talking about 3 billion euros intended for the Republic of Croatia from European funds. The Ministry of Finance and the Government have fulfilled our obligation, we have paid into the European budget. However, in some of the rare tenders the government has managed to publish, or the ministry, was one of the terms of the funds intended for local self-government units that 50km should not be the borders of the neighbouring state. Tell me which unit of local self-government in the Republic meets this condition? The local self-government units were also talking about a 25% raise VAT. All our budgets practically went from that 2% to the state budget. We are also talking about the development of the economy, and then the units of local self-government, I will give you my freshest example of negotiating with a foreign investor, agreeing to a price of EUR 60 per metre square, refer it to the Ministry of Economy. Then it is the same Ministry of Economy that rerouted him to another part of Croatia and offered him land owned by the Republic of Croatia for only 10 kuna. How much damage has been done to the Republic of Croatia and the state budget?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74883	Answer Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74884	Col. Klaric, therefore, has one item in this budget where concessions are said to increase and concessions will not generally increase. It will be a slight increase in the amount of concessions. However, the distribution changed, so-called. the key distribution of concessions. So what was before 50 or 50% for local self-government units suddenly changed by a government regulation, so there was no possibility of this discussion of the High House being reduced to 30%, the state got 50%. So it proves what kind of problems the state budget is in. Because being sure of such a move would be difficult for someone to decide. Why? Well, because there are mayors and mayors in their own ranks. You should tell your party colleagues, too. Listen, I've taken so much and so much money from you. It best shows what kind of problems the state budget is in. And this is sending investors somewhere else, so that's the removal of bureaucratic barriers. If someone came to invest in a municipality, he came to a city for certain reasons. And if the price he was supposed to pay was right for him, he knows why it was right for him, why someone serves him somewhere else because it's another reading. And that's a question of uncertainty investors don't like. And then if you have within two years a few changes to tax laws, you don't know in principle today you started working. Let's say you opened a restaurant on the Adriatic. And you opened it at 6 months and your VAT is 10%. And you're basically doing the calculations, and then after two months, someone says there's not going to be any more VAT 10%, but it's going to be 13%. Well, then she tells you she's okay. You've got a profit, you'll pay 12% for your dividend, but you'll pay retroactively for some years. Now I'm asking myself a question that a normal businessman is going to invest in so he doesn't pay his dividend tax? Well, everyone in their right mind goes into investment to create new jobs and, based on that, makes more money. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74885	The new replica Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74886	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shuker, some entrepreneurs have asked me just as much in this debate on the budget, and when the Minister of Finance is in Parliament, I ask one question. In fact, you know well, and you yourself mentioned that some entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia are freed and forgiven by the law on financial business and pre-profit settlements, tens of millions of kunas of tax obligations, tax taxes. At the same time, the employees of the Ministry of Finance or the Customs Administration are overseeing others, other entrepreneurs who have been late for the past few years with the payment of excise duties but who have settled them neatly. Because they were late paying tight interest. Today, employees of the Customs Administration for 2009, the eighth, ninth, tenth, of these entrepreneurs who have settled their obligations and have not entered the system of pre-fashion settlements come to them and write them criminal orders and are now paying the fines. So imagine injustice. Someone is forgiven for tens of millions of kunas of tax duties, and his competitor, who neatly paid his debts, although with some delay, has been paying a tight interest today by the Customs Administration, writes to them Mr. Minister of Violence Orders, and now they pay fines. The question arises whether, through the basis of such a business, such entrepreneurs whose competitors are, I apologize, users in my opinion, illegal, or unlawful support through the forgiveness of the debt in the pre-debt settlement procedure whether they can sue the Ministry of Finance today, so that the State can also enable them to do business in a normal manner through such support. And on the one hand, they are punished for being late even though they paid a tight interest, and others are forgiven through this procedure and it would be very interesting to know who, and if that list were published, they would be forgiven for tens of millions of kuna tax obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74887	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74888	My colleague Bacic, I am afraid I cannot answer most of your question because it can be answered by the Registrar. But what I can say is the basic principle of tax policy is to be fair. To be fair to all and to all pay taxes according to their economic power and power. And the tight interest had always had its own to say so by the criminal prefix and it was being paid and it was always higher because someone had not fulfilled their duties on time. And if someone hasn't done their duties in time, he's paid a tight interest, and then I don't see why he'd be conducting a misdemeanor procedure against such people. But what might be in pre-primary settlements the most painful and the most difficult is that with VAT those who owe to someone so they paid VAT so they didn't get paid, and now in these pre-primary deals, etc. He gets anything or nothing or gets something for five years without interest. But the question arises what is the status of this paid VAT on account? Because we all know that besides craftsmen, all practically VAT is paid according to the invoiced, not the charged value. Well, then if it went to such contracts, then it would be a logical thing for this... part of the state to pay VAT to someone who didn't pay for something, and in his books, he had to solve the problem of tax returns so that there was both a wolf full and a goat. However, many have found themselves in trouble because to settle their obligations to the state, sell their assets, pay VAT, and they cannot collect their claims because some of the guarantees, related companies have brought a completely different pre-emptive plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74889	Next replica, Zdravko Ronko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74890	Thank you very much. Here I read in these materials a reduction in social care of 23 million, for culture 21 and for defenders 15.5. Now, we've also received amendments from our colleagues, Djakic. I agree completely with you, Mr. Shucker, that they don't deserve it, but obviously it's also an inevitability. But at the same time, I read in the media and judgments. HDZ 30 million, former HDZ president Ivo Sanader 30 million, and according to the available data and your godmother, who with his companies rolled with the help of former and present flocks in the Croatian Forests and the Tax Administration 30 million, and all this seems to me to be just the tip of the ice, and that things get a little shaken I don't think we should even have a rebalancing. Now, you're a person and you've been a person of the special trust of Eva Sanader, I don't see why we shouldn't be now. You're high-listed in HDZ and you've quoted and quoted. And you had and now you have a powerful influence on your godfather. So I would ask you to try to use that influence, that your strength to try to do it in a way that they somehow pay it. They don't have to pay everything, so at least let them get involved. But I think this commentation of yours would make better use of it and make it better if you gave your contribution through this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74891	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74892	Mr. Ronko, I don't know which godfather you're talking about, then I won't tell you, I'd tell you what my colleague Hebrang said, but you're not telling the truth. But a colleague of Ronko's other godfathers have problems with the Croatian forests. You forgot that. A fellow Ronko with what right do you teach moral lessons? So you were at the moment the authorities were taking over... from the Ministry of Finance 14 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You lost the court dispute, you wanted to charge for what was owned by the IRS. You lost your court dispute, you boasted on the local radio that you got so much and so much interest. But my colleague Ronko, I've never told you this before, and if you hadn't spoken like this, I wouldn't have told you now. Because you're going to say something personal that just isn't true. Well, you could've said you were thinking of a colleague you're already attacking o-ho-ho, but we're friends and we're not godfathers. Therefore, someone else's godfathers have trouble with the woods, man of God. Just like everyone's food chain will come to order. But I'm telling you remember the deal at 14 million at the moment when there was a takeover of power. The IRS' assessment is at 12 and the coroner's assessment is at 11.8. Fortunately, there is a judiciary that acts independently on politics, so it has reached a verdict because it has to ask God whose election expenses were to be settled.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74893	New replica, Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74894	Thank you very much. Well, you said your esteemed colleague Shuker that this was a capitulation of economic policy. I'd say that's a gentlely said fellow Shucker. In fact, this rebalancing as well as any budget speaks of the entire government policy, and this rebalancing to read says what this government is saying. The amount envisaged for the preparation of EU funding projects has been reduced by a quarter. At the same time, funds for salaries and administration of numerous ministries and agencies have increased even to 45%. It is interesting to read one item of compensation to people outside of working relationships that have been increased by 800%. At the same time, we have unemployment benefits increased by 321 million or 2.6%. Not because these fees will be higher than because this recognizes the government that we have far more unemployed than it predicted in November last year. In November, the budget we are now changing was 350 thousand unemployed. Today we have 382,000. This government boasts that 120,000 are unemployed, that it has improved this figure by ousting 120,000 unemployed. At the same time, on the same page for an active employment policy, we extract 177 million less than 35% less than expected in November of last year. I think it's embarrassing this rebalancing that this government admits that we now need 26% more for the unemployed after two and a half months because we have far more than we could have assumed in December last year, and for the employment it's for the active policy we separate 35% less than or 177 million. Shouldn't the smart and responsible government provide the means to hire a young person even if it is for 1600, embarrassing 1600 but to leave her at the Bureau and provide her with compensation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74895	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74896	You see, colleagues of Juricev that the ministers were fair and correct when making the budget, then we probably shouldn't have this budget rebalance. Why? Because that budget that everyone knew about the moment it was brought in would simply be worth nothing if it was in the air, which is what it is, and now we have some kind of non-resonal change because what logic is to increase the cost of the unemployed by 321 million kuna within two months. Was it a fear of admitting how unemployed or active the employment policy is? However, you said the key thing, which is by a quarter or 25% reduction of EU funds. We have to understand, Europe is not a cost to us, but it is an opportunity to withdraw money and reduce the expenditure side of the budget, to say in one common common language, that every Croat understands us. And since neither state institutions nor units of local self-government are prepared and those who are prepared simply have no space because they have to wait for others without talking about entrepreneurs, then we have a situation where what needs to be financed from EU funds is unfortunately on the expenditure side of the budget and then the budget is in such problems as it is, and probably it goes on, then it would impose on itself certain structural reforms and changes that simply cannot be avoided, they must happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74897	New replica, Sunny Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74898	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Shuker, you've noticed very well that the problems of the state budget, or the planning of the state budget, are also reflected in the budgets of the local self-government units. In fact, we units of local self-government, and I'm going to tell you why I'm saying this, for example to cities instead of strengthening them, we're giving them responsibilities, and when we rebalance the budget, we're putting them in an unequal position because we're not actually asking them for their opinion when we're cutting funds. So the association of cities whose President, Mr. Zeljko Turk, warns here, I must say that I have been asked by colleagues from many of the SDP cities to say this. Therefore, it is the funds for the salaries of officials that local self-government units have taken over from the state and are working on works of issuing works related to construction. Payments at the level of 45 million kuna have been secured in the state budget since 2008-2012 and funds have been allocated. However, the proposal for a State budget in 2014 and the current amendments and additions have reduced these funds to 12 million kunas. How do units of local self-government plan their budgets, how do people work at all, so we give them on one side of the task, on the other hand, we don't ask them for their opinion and we take their funds. And we are not taking funding from, for example, 24.5 million kuna for the privatisation services of Croatia's insurance advisers. It is hardly anyone who will explain this to the leaders of the cities that we have imposed these obligations, we have reduced them almost double resources, and then we will say no, we need that money, to pay some advisors or to buy new cars as it still stands in some rebalancing items, which is almost incredible.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74899	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74900	My colleagues Glavak, units of local self-government have drawn up the process of reforms that must happen in this country because units of local self-government and resolution ministries simply have to see which jobs would be better put down to local self-government units to be better quality and better implemented and at the same time, if you lower their obligations, then they should be brought down by law, and if there was such a partner reformer relationship then it would not happen to local self-government units what is happening. But as the story goes about all this together, the best thing you can think of is a story with these newly acquired cars. You know exactly how it works through the central public procurement office. The needy is likely to have provided funds in his budget and based on that he has reported public procurement and cannot happen when cars that are so unsuitable to the public say that these cars will go to one ministry. So how are they going to go to that ministry if they don't have the money to finance those cars and it clearly shows that those who should know how the system works when the little public squeezes them don't know where their head is anymore and where their tail is.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74901	The last replica before the break, Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74902	Perfect. This worked out fine. Comrade Shuker, here's just one little recession before I start with a replica, I noticed that HDZ's only asking you questions, they haven't replicated you at all, but I will. You said politics like this led up to 380 thousand unemployed. I have to remind you of two periods of Croatian politics, and that's the first period, that's 90th, the famous conversion and privatisation that put out 300 thousand jobs, and that's where I have to tell you the example of the city of Đakov in which you shut down the PIC that employs over 3,000 people, there are none, there are no 3 thousand people, 3 and a half thousand are unemployed now in Đakov, that's a direct consequence. The second period in my opinion is the year Eve Sanader and the theft of her own citizens. Do you think stealing your own citizens didn't affect unemployment? I think so. As far as this climate is concerned, that you've kept trying to shut down, you've been afraid of everything that smells like socialism. The PICs bothered you, the cooperatives bothered you, and now we all see how wrong it was. And finally, I have to tell you, at the end of your exposure, you said this government has quasi measures. I, unfortunately, think of your party as a quack of patriotism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74903	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74904	Well, look, fellow Tomic, a man could say anything that's square. If we're going to be so unresonished to honest people who are members of individual political parties, then the quasi is talking about who said it, and I can't think of saying it for members of the SDP, that the quasi are something because I respect them as people, as citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So that's one thing. And as for conversion and privatisation, trust me, colleague Tomic, in my life I haven't had a single share, in that conversion and privatisation, all fingers are inside. You have a lot of those who were prominent party members so they took advantage of the benefits of conversion and privatisation and then they got into the ruling party like some of you entered the party now that you came to power. Therefore, again the name and last name, and also I would really like about the 200 families that are being talked about, let's now list the 200 richest Croats so let's see which political option they belong to at this point, the most of them belong to no political option, but let's see which political option they belonged to and whether they belonged to the 90s. But when we talk about this conversion and privatisation, don't forget the law of Ante Markovic. And then all the directors of companies and bank directors who participated in the conversion and privatisation were members of the Communist alliance because they couldn't have been who they were, and I don't think it would have occurred to me to say that the SDP did the privatisation. You let it go, but you didn't throw the property away from the SDP, you sold some hotels neatly outside and came to the jury account of the SDP. But I repeat, let's put aside the hard words regarding the honest members of every political party. Let's not insult them because they're very hard to live on and I don't think it's fair for them to argue like this. We can get here, and it's not even nice and fair to throw mud at each other if we don't have arguments.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74905	Thank you. I'm advertising a break now. There's eight more replicas left. We'll hear that at 3:00. Eight replicas. It's a 13,28 o'clock meeting.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74906	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] Drazen Pandek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74907	Here's a thank you. In your presentation, you looked back on the fact that in 2011, the last year of the government's mandate was an economic downturn of 1.02% and you voiced hope that during the course, it continued as the government outlined a programme to have a better situation today. Well, here's the shortest, I wouldn't, of course, agree with you. I think that when we lose this data from a broader context that it can even fool the public because at the same time of course in the EU environment, I am interested in the euro zone, economic growth was 1.6%, so while we had a decline of 0.2% and the next year was an economic downturn in the euro zone -0.7% and 2013. - 0.5%. Of course, we are a small-scale economy where we are extremely dependent on the environment, but I would say that in 2011, when we add up that minus and plus which by entering the EU, this GAP was therefore 1.8% of the total score, while this GAP decreased to -1.2 and 0.5% of the total points. When we talk about this split and the difference between the European GDP and Croatia movement, we can still see from this graph that even during this period of this government, it is significantly reduced, and therefore this suggests that the EU and Croatia movement has drawn closer, which has not been the case for those previous governments where there have been much greater discrimination, I would say, however, that the trends point to harmonisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74908	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74909	Comrade Pandek, I was saying this in the context that Croatia had economic growth in the second and third quarter of 2011. The fourth quarter was an election and logical thing that many indicators fell during that period. Although this was an annual decline of 0.2%, given that some economic recovery measures started to produce results on micro-levels, so only in Croatia, then it was a logical thing that some things continued until the government simply came to some concrete measures, that probably the result in 2012 would not be -2% but would certainly be better, so I said it in this context. And the logical thing as at this time all countries have practically come out of recession except for one or two in Europe and that, in some sense, Croatia should come out, but unfortunately some things that haven't been made are still under the line and that's the real problem and the question is this 0.2% this year is whether unfortunately, given the situation with EU funds on this, that we've cut investment funds in the budget, to a situation that is the way it is in public enterprises, the question of whether it's going to drag us under the lines because unfortunately looking at just how much it's benefiting from something, whether it's -0.1% or +0.1% it's practically anyway. It is within some limits of a statistical error, however, a trend is important. You have some upward trend so even if he's negative, but if you have a rising trend he's good, but the worst is when you have a saw.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74910	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74911	Dear colleague Shuker, in your debate, you said it was unfair for the CNB to get a piece into the Republic of Croatia's budget. I don't agree with that. In fact, it was unfair and unnatural actually not being that the CNB did not participate in the budget with profits but in solving the crisis only what the CNB has done all these years and what it does and does actively is to share lessons with the high. The CNB acts as a rival to the government either in this, or in those previous governments, as if it didn't care about CNB employment, the stability of the economy, as if it were the only one keeping the exchange rate of the kuna that we know that many economic experts say it's detimizing right for the economy. The practice of CNB behavior needs to be changed and it's good if it changes. It's not good if you don't, no matter who's in power, no matter who's in charge. What you're saying, I agree with what you're saying about the units of local self-government that are being taken away, that's another proof of not decentralisation that this government has sworn to when it comes but centralization. I fully agree with what my colleague Glavak was saying about the status of cities or the situation in which the cities that took over one part of the state's job to work on legalisation, the state has committed to subsisting the cost of wages and the budget is supposed to cover with 45 million kuna, and now these millions of kunas are less. I don't think that's fair and that's it, there's a relationship to local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74912	Dear colleague Shuker, in your debate, you said it was unfair for the CNB to get a piece into the Republic of Croatia's budget. I don't agree with that. In fact, it was unfair and unnatural actually not being that the CNB did not participate in the budget with profits but in solving the crisis only what the CNB has done all these years and what it does and does actively is to share lessons with the high. The CNB acts as a rival to the government either in this, or in those previous governments, as if it didn't care about CNB employment, the stability of the economy, as if it were the only one keeping the exchange rate of the kuna that we know that many economic experts say it's detimizing right for the economy. The practice of CNB behavior needs to be changed and it's good if it changes. It's not good if you don't, no matter who's in power, no matter who's in charge. What you're saying, I agree with what you're saying about the units of local self-government that are being taken away, that's another proof of not decentralisation that this government has sworn to when it comes but centralization. I fully agree with what my colleague Glavak was saying about the status of cities or the situation in which the cities that took over one part of the state's job to work on legalisation, the state has committed to subsisting the cost of wages and the budget is supposed to cover with 45 million kuna, and now these millions of kunas are less. I don't think that's fair and that's it, there's a relationship to local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74913	Thank you very much. Comrade Vuksic, you've probably heard something. I didn't say I was sorry that the CNB would pay off the profits, but I said I was sorry for the years, sometimes when the CNB wouldn't pay off, and the logical thing is if the CNB has a profit at this point, it's known where it came from, it didn't come true, it didn't fall from the sky. The logical thing is, then, that part of the money in the state budget, if it can't already be those credit debts within a year like it used to be before we changed the CNB Act in 2002. But me, what you were saying about the CNB, they remind me incredibly of those white people we called the observers at the beginning of the European Commission Homeland War. And they came to the front line with one task because they could drop grenades as much as they wanted, and you, they didn't want to talk about it, but what they came for, and eventually tomorrow you could talk to them, so that story about it ex... lectured on what you should do. I think that even my colleague Linic is experiencing what I've been experiencing for years, that they've been talking all the time, never specifically said what they should do, which they would... give the whole story. However, he is what he is, and as far as the local self-government unit is concerned, I don't think it's a good message with a change in the share in the concession. I don't think it's that big money, that the state will be saved with it, but it sends a terrible bad message to the units of local self-government and other things, and that area of concession is unfortunately still poorly covered in Croatia, and it took us one 4.5 years in the ministry to make even a register of concessions and even mayors of some major cities, we've asked them 10, 15 times to send us concession contracts because not only does the concession agreements of the state, many contracts were concluded by public companies and municipal companies of local self-government units, and it only once agreed. This may send a bad message, if we are already talking about the local self-government unit should play a more significant, significant role in the use of EU funds, as well as... the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74914	Ante Jerolimov, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74915	Thank you. Comrade Shuker, you said that everything, you said and explained nicely, has concluded that the increase in contributions by 2% is actually public recognition of capitulation. I would draw your attention if not only had the health contribution and VAT increased but the tax coverage was growing, they would have said of all sorts, that pensions were withdrawn from the second pillar, that the share of concessions was increased, that profits were withdrawn from public companies, that excise duties were growing, and that I did not list all the other charges and errors of this government because I was running out of time. In support of the recognition of capitulation, it also speaks of the fact that, when the 2014 budget was broken down in November 2013, the minister himself said several times as it was a struggle for survival and claimed that the budget was realistic and feasible. Today 4 months later we can see how this struggle with the budget ended, defeat and... And every little bit is the same story, we warn of sustainability and the reality of the budget and we announce the recent rebalancing, and the proposer all denies and refuses and then unfortunately time shows that we were right, but time passes and unfortunately our citizens live worse and worse every day and wonders how to survive these two years of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74916	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74917	Thank you very much. My colleague Jerolimov, I am convinced that the minister had a completely different concept when he proposed this tax reform, but one of the key steps in this concept did not come true and unfortunately the government has now come into a situation to take what can only be taken from where. So this measure that was warned right at the beginning that, when you look at it cumulatively, then it's a lot of money, then it's 2 billion 600, 2 billion and 700, but when it's disbursed to several hundred thousand... pension insurance payments and when you take that most Croatian companies are under 50 employees, if it's a gross salary of 120 kuna, so when you multiply by 12 months, it's 1440 kuna, and if you take that you have 50 employees, it's 70 thousand kuna. Now the question arises what can you encourage in a company with 50 employees with 70,000 kuna? But unfortunately, when you take it cumulatively into the budget, it's big money. And what I said on behalf of the club and what ultimately is HDZ's position, the revenue side can no longer be charged with tax hikes because it leads us to a counter effect. The revenue side can be charged exclusively as the effect of certain economic developments which will therefore fill the state budget. And this non-exploitation of EU funds is a big damage to the state budget because all these jobs that would be done from EU money, paid to VAT, paid to the income tax, those who work all together, and with that basis would only increase the state budget, and not to say that the base would reduce the expenditure side of the state budget because these are costs simply which would no longer be financed from the state budget but would come from somewhere else, and then the minister would get the opportunity to treat the budget more creatively, and that alone would make other ministers finally start implementing reforms.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74918	Boro Grubisic, not present, loses his right to replication. The Port of Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74919	Dear fellow Shuker, you love as we have heard, talking about the need to talk about facts and the fact that we need to talk and have a good time and face it. However, listening to you today at a pay phone and some of your colleagues in replicas, you get the impression, probably wrong, but the impression is that in these two years this government has made a huge debt and that it does not know how to solve this debt or problems in Croatia, such an impression is gained. So in two years we have managed to get into an excessive deficit and we don't know by your words how to solve it, that's the impression that citizens have probably heard that they heard after your discussions and after your explanation of the rebalances of the state budget. Well, whether you like it or not, then I have to talk about the facts and go back to something that I don't like, but I have to say. So somewhere in 2008 when the crisis began, then it was the one whose name was no longer mentioned except in court when we at least part of our opposition representatives had weekly press conferences and said there was a crisis on the door and that we had to react and we offered laws on how to do it we turned out to be funny here because it wasn't, the crisis wasn't. And those 63 billion deficits that Europe has set up, it doesn't mean I have to deal with the over-indebted state with the over-indebted economy, with over-indebted citizens, and meet the conditions of the excessive deficit to come below 3%.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74920	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74921	Do you know why I'm telling you all this? Well, because I've been through a similar gogoth as the minister is today. And it is not true that the 11th month did not suggest freezing all expenditure at the level of 2008. There was a big meeting with all union union representatives, HUPs, a large part of the unit leaders of local self-government to try to agree that this is something that needs to be done. It was not done in the 11th month, followed by a rebalancing that began in the 2nd month of next year and expenditures were cut for 9 billion kuna. So if it's not a confession that we're in a crisis, then I don't know what we should do. It all happened at the 11th month. And my colleague Denona, I've already mentioned only one law today, and I could mention others. So of the laws that were proposed here, it was proposed that the health contribution be reduced from 15% to 7%, and now take that health contribution down from 15% to 7%, which would look like that budget, and you have now admitted yourself that the reduction from 15 to 13% is unsustainable, so that's what you yourself admitted. Now, tell me, how would someone maintain it? On the other hand, I would give you an open hand and believe me, I would support all your laws when you came to power if you had simply put on a bunch of those 40 laws and if you had said here we are now coming to power and we will now adopt all these laws that you wicked HDZs while you were in power. Unfortunately, I haven't seen any of these laws. So it's one thing when you're in opposition, and the other is when you're in power. However, in my debate over respecting the institution where I was headed because of my respect for my colleagues, I try never to bring myself into such a situation to say things that are inconclusive just to attack a political opponent. But in the fact that I disagree with some things, I try to explain why I disagree, and for some reason someone might accept it in some way, so maybe they'll make things right. But look at the fact that we are now facing a 20 billion kuna deficit.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74922	Thank you. Ante Kulusic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74923	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74924	You said that this government was going to charge the budget from the company's profits. Then how will these companies progress? We heard here it's the one or the one but you know who runs this government and during which two years the new 70,000 unemployed came. There is one joke about small Ivica, and I will say this why today the EU loves why EU countries worship Croatia. When little Hansel was in school and his teacher asked him if you loved Dad, he said I didn't love him if he beat me. Do you love Mom? I don't like her beating me. And who do you love? He says I love a football club, and now I'm not gonna say which because he doesn't beat anyone. This is how EU countries worship Croatia today, because unfortunately we are moving 3 billion and 800 million into the EU, and we are not pulling anything out, and I hope that our software will be improved, so we will get something out of the EU. And here there have been speeches of both godfathers and godmothers, who and at the end of which the best men will answer, it will only be determined by the court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74925	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74926	Thank you very much. I spoke several times today about the fact that the EU is not a burden to Croatia but that Croatians, the Croatian state, the Croatian economy should benefit from the EU. Unfortunately, you can't see that from this budget. You can only see on the expense side where we have to pay so much and so much. But it was also once negotiated that it could be such an envelope or that we could call it a folk draw so much and so much money. Now the question is, can a software be a problem? So if we knew that last year we could withdraw a billion and 800 or how much we could withdraw, then the logical thing was that all these programs were already practically done and that the money was withdrawn this year, and that all this stuff that was to be withdrawn this year was also done so that it wasn't planned in this budget. And as far as public companies are concerned, frankly, I don't know from which public companies at this point other than JANAF and Plinacro are taking some kind of profit because HEP can show me no profit. We all know that he has about a billion, 400 claims from citizens and economies that are questionable about the collection. However, INA is unfortunately at a loss, Croatia's insurance is at a loss and I don't know which state will win. And I'm curious to see how betrayed the governor of the CNB will be, so let's pull the parallel of what happened last and last year without saying what happened four and five years ago about getting the CNB.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74927	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74928	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Shuker, I am sure you agree that the budget is the policy of all policies, and this budget, which today is ahead of us or the rebalancing, gives almost 400 thousand unemployed young people who have been removed from employment, investments have been stopped, in some ways it can be said that this is a failed attempt at a failed policy. Unfortunately, no one in this Croatia is happy about it, the boom was announced, so fiscalisation was introduced where the effect of fiscalisation is, no one has anything against it. The VAT has been raised, where the effect of all this is. And finally, eight years were said to be prepared and said to fight corruption. Well, here's the funding of political parties, some people are asking me what's gonna happen to me if I didn't report taxes. What would happen to me? One political party, which has been a party in power for the second year in a row, has been late to report, pays the fine for the first time, and then by some regulation quickly through the Constitutional Court, they bring it down and they forget again. So what kind of message is this budget, Mr. Schucker, in 2015, to these citizens who are really more groaning under these kinds of things?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74929	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74930	Look at your fellow twilight. The government had to do something to send it to Brussels and make it look like something was going down. And when you look at what was done on the income thing, it's practically all one-time procedures just like that, and today there was no talking about it in the Law on the Elimination of Service Loyalty 4, 8 and 10%, it's said that it's going to sting somewhere around 380 million kuna, but that law is valid until 31.12.2014. Now, I'm asking you from what resources the next year is going to raise that 500 million kuna for the loyalty of the service if we don't practically have economic growth. This clearly states that these ad hoc measures that are not the result of the reform but of some cutting, and unfortunately all the investments in the state budget have suffered the same cut as the domestic component for the EU funds, then you have the result you have. And probably the European Commission will close its eyes on these, budget rebalances, let it go as it is. However, there are two ifs, they will watch as the two come true and what are macroeconomic indicators. Also, what the minister says they gave him, in fact, they gave the government a confession for some things, will see what the effect of these allegedly good things is, and then they will bring their final court for 2014 in the autumn of 2014 before the adoption of the 2015 budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74931	Gordana Sobol, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74932	Thank you, Madam Vice President, so, fellow Shucker, at the beginning of today's debate, you accused this government in some way of creating insecurity in society. I would say that at least it is not within the limits of good taste to accuse this government of creating uncertainty what your governments failed to do in time before this government took responsibility for the state. And not only in times of crisis when it was finally admitted to being a crisis, but I would say even more at times when that crisis was gone. So, in the follow-up, you talked about the need for reform, about how late it is with the reforms. Do you not think that perhaps all of us today would be much better and much easier if you were the reforms we are constantly talking about in times when they could be much easier to achieve. So, at times when the crisis was gone. When we talk about, you also object that there are not enough structural reforms on the spending side in this budget rebalancing. I don't know what you think we should have, so the only thing that hasn't been touched in this budget rebalancing is pensions, these are basic salaries and social benefits. Or do you think there should be additional reforms? And finally, among other things, today you have repeatedly and in replicas with members of your own club, I don't suppose they're happy with your debate, because the most replica you've received from your club has mentioned that this rebalance is the result of misplanning, the failure of ministers, the wrong moves of ministers. 'Cause here's the third month we've got rebalancing. Mr. Schuker, colleague Schuker, in 2009, you were Minister of Finance, on 30.3. here we had a debate on the first budget rebalancing in 2009 and in July another two budget rebalances. That's when it was okay. I guess that was in line with your forecasts for 2009, and this when we do that turns out to be a reflection of incompetence. Well, it's not like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74933	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74934	Now, fellow Sobol, if this was the environment in 2009, as it is today, a man could have a finger in his ear and sang. ... Wait a minute, I'm asking you nicely. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] At that time, the whole of Europe had an economic downturn, except for two, three countries over 6%. That's one thing. And just before I told you that it was proposed at the 11th month of freezing. And that's when I said that what's happening today happened. There was no political force to make certain moves. And I said that not once. Reforms are carried out by those who have political desire and political strength. And that's why when I talked about certain homes looking the way they do because those responsible for them haven't implemented the reforms, they're facts. And you know what creates uncertainty? Insecurity creates when you don't know how and under what conditions you'll be doing business. It's the greatest uncertainty of fellow Sobol. Corruption, look at the items and you'll see which ones you're reducing, and as far as corruption is concerned, don't rush some things have started and on the other hand we'll see what will eventually be. And the other thing, I've been listening politely all along while you've been saying, so, according to that, some processes are going on, but no one, I repeat in corruption is a political party, but a name and a name. But don't apologize for what's going on right now. Because I repeat, 2014 is unfortunately what it is but the real danger is in 2015 because some things have not been done, because it is an election year and certain that some things will not be done. Therefore, it is as it is, and when I spoke about uncertainty then I told you about the announcement of certain taxes for 2016 when this term of office will no longer be this government but that will certainly freeze certain activities in this country as someone has frozen the total traffic of real estate with certain legal regulations. Just like the missing car shop in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74935	We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleague Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74936	Vice-President, Minister, gentlemen of the Parliament. I'm listening to replicas and I can't just believe it. Someone doesn't take anything, but they're too late to file a report and be punished with five million kunas. The second is a few tenths of a million kuna, whatever a couple of tens of hundreds of millions and fines, yours and the penalty of five million kunas. And then a man asks himself the question where justice is, where justice is, where there's law, where there's logic, where there's honesty. The day after the verdict, I can't believe I can't come to myself today. Watch out from the position of the government everyone is silent, no one is. The Gala HDZ absolutely has that right, but what they would do if the situation were reversed. But let's let it go now. We all knew the 2014 budget wouldn't hold. And we all kind of talked about it that way and well that there's a rebalancing in front of us. Rebalance is the same policy, it's not good, but it's necessary. And those who are for the coalition shall support it in the same way, and the other way round about, those who do not. Those who are not for this rebalancing clearly will call those first or second. What's the point of this budget or the rebalancing of the pardon, the growth of the gross social product I'm going to say quite openly in 2014. won't be. But I'm afraid it won't even be 2015. What's he gonna say? Croatia is trying to take care of public finances and this is the last moment. With the original budget, Croatia should only be charged to see 42 billion 635 million kuna. With this rebalancing, 35 billion kunas minus 7 billion and 32 million kunas will be charged to make it the way it is. I say it is good that Europe has forced us to move away from all this policy of this kind, 42.6 billion kuna as planned. So what does that mean exactly? That Croatia will not have growth in 2014 more or less, we all acknowledge, that it will be saved everywhere, that these restrictions will feel in some way both the public sector and the third that this policy will lead to Croatia's debt of minus seven billion kuna. And that's, in my opinion, a summary or a core of this budget. I can only speak two sentences here and in the County of Istria through this budget. Yes, what's important is that the budget also stands out in this year's 210 million kuna for the Istrian Ipsylon. What does that mean? That the ipislon must go, that for the ipislon we will not single us down. But if he goes to work, he comes back before just 500 builders. But if Croatia's credit rating drops, then investments are expensive for everyone, including international investors, which will say that such an investment can also be extended. What I'm far more or equal to as much as the budget is interested in are extra budget items. Through the Croatian waters towards Istria goes 300 million kunas and over Croatian roads 120 million kunas. I won't talk about other separations. What I regret is that for the construction of the DORH building in Istria, we are denied 8.6 million kuna. That's because we have enough problems as we do in the case of drugs, and we need help here, and we need to solve this problem. And for the third time I'm going to say growth in 2014 won't be. And I'm pretty sure we'll have another rebalancing out there sometime after the tourist season. Is it a mistake to talk about it but surely the strongest, bravest measure of this government was when the fifteen percent contribution for the Croatian Health Insurance Institute was reduced to 13%. Today it comes back from 13% to 15%. If it hadn't happened, what would have happened? It would probably be in public services, ministries, etc. He had to adjust his salary for his brother 10%. That amount this year is going to be, I'm saying those two percentage points less than 1.6 billion kuna. Next year, it's going to be about 2.4 billion kuna. So, these 2 billion kunas, to conclude somewhat indicatively in 2 years, means 4 billion kuna plus the transfer of the benefited internship from the second pillar to the first pillar, means that Croatia will re-distribute the revenue side by those 7 billion kunas and we will be less in debt in 2014. But the question is, what's it gonna get us? And the fourth time. It won't grow, it won't, it'll lead to gross social product not growing in 2014 so it won't grow in 2015. And that means we're going to have to face the crisis literally in 2016. I am almost convinced that the 2008 GDP will not reach or will not recover before 2020. And that's the point. Right, we're going to be less in charge, and that's why I'm going to support this rebalance, but no matter how much anyone says the measures aren't essential, they're very brave. Maybe they're least brave when it comes to officials, others are more or less intact, but it's good that it's just like that. Why is Croatia so? Because today 2014 we have 100,000 more employees in the upgrade than we had in 1990. That's the price of the country. Now, we all know that in the upgrade you vote for this or that political option. I guess that's understood by itself, too, by what we would say in Istria, the taxpayers' shrimp costs these 100,000 people at an annual level of about 15 billion kuna. And that's the problem. This country can no longer follow. Here, we all had the opportunity to follow Mr. Vukic's choice in Serbia, condemning his performances in Croatia in the early 1990s absolutely, but the first measure he is likely to take or in which direction this new economic recovery policy is going is to fire 100,000 people in the state upgrade. And in the same way, without a radical cut, it doesn't matter if it's the number of municipalities or counties, cities, agencies, I don't know, anything that's on the budget, and Croatia won't just go green. I told me 2008 GDP is hard to get back before 2020. On the other hand, these thefts that we are witnessing, this banditism from conversion to the way individuals acquired stations, castles, I don't know apartments, land among other things has led Croatia where it is. And Mr. Bajic, whatever anyone thought of him, changed Croatia, faced those who, say, defended the sanctioning of war crimes that took place on the margins and on the Croatian side, changed Croatia by facing the crime of the top of the government, but it is also a fact that the other echelon in this country was not even touched. Whether it's a matter of not knowing about public enterprises or what's far closer to us. When we talk about the budget here, and if I'm sure, so I'd like it to be removed from me once and for all, and to put an end to it once, because in the opposite future for us maybe it won't be for our children. Croatia, for sure, will not be Greece. Croatia will repay debts, but I think in two years, Croatians can be as difficult as the Greeks were, say, two years ago. And that's the point. I said, once again, from 2008 to today, the real sector in Croatia has lost 280 thousand jobs. Where? In manufacturing. Now, who, how much and what does he actually save, or how much does he lose? The finance ministry loses 372 million kuna compared to the original budget. Department of Defense 241 million kuna, MUP 160 million kuna, Ministry of Defense 16 million kuna. I see your amendment is heading that way to get it back. Foreign Ministry for 38 million kunas down, Ministry of Economy 220 million kunas, Ministry of Entrepreneurship 97 million kunas, culture 22 million kunas, construction 34 million kunas, traffic 191 million kunas. Those who win the Ministry of Health 2.4 billion kuna and the normal Ministry of Labour and Pensions system 284 million kuna. I would personally like to be clearly wrong but I do not know any misunderstandings and in this relationship within Parliament will sooner escape than it will help. Those who are in the ruling coalition or who support the coalition will clearly support the rebalancing and others will attack, and that has always been the case in those last 23, 24 years and will be this opportunity. What I'm also interested in, and everything about the budget is politics, that's what happens within the tourist communities whose budgets are together at a state level of 561 million kuna. Someone stood up to someone, opposed, and now that these phantom PR agencies of a consulting company are pulling out money and now they are simply disabling someone in one reckless way and trying to move away at times when Croatia experienced a 5.1% overnight growth in the same period last year in Istria was 0.3%. So it had to be done the other way around rather than the way it was done. But that's something else. What's the same point? Saving citizens and I would say even though this is not a matter of caution to Croatian banks. On the one hand, we have 307 thousand citizens in a blockade with 24.4 billion kunas of debt or unpaid liabilities, and on the other hand we see what is the position and business banks in the Republic of Croatia that almost every other year has achieved a certain loss. When we look outside the budget funds, then we see it's for a bank recovery or what it's called, I need to find it somewhere secure about how much, like, 758.4 million kuna. It's just that if it's not good for the banks, they shouldn't be too sorry for them. It's not going to be good for the citizens or it's going to be far, far more difficult for us. Clearly, when we talk about this personal bankruptcy, that law will probably come before us soon or before the MPs, or before I don't know, this House, it doesn't matter. This needs to be discussed as soon as possible, as well as the fact that not so long ago, the associations themselves and I couldn't believe another piece of information that their fleet is 544 million kuna, that they have 9757 employees, that they have 3 billion kuna worth of buildings, land, that we're not talking about those 13.5 billion kunas without churches, etc., etc. All in all that, we are all aware that we will have another rebalancing, we are all aware of the weight of the moment we are in, we are all also aware that what Mr. Shuker is talking about, about real problems that can occur in 2015 in one election year when there are not too many waves but real problems, with real problems will have to deal with that political option that will get power in 2016.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74937	Thank you very much. Gordan Jandrokovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74938	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Cain, you opened your discussion by mentioning that crime and corruption took place during HDZ rule, and that is unfortunately true. But at the same time during HDZ authorities, conditions were created to start a very strong fight against this corruption, a legislative framework was created, a social atmosphere was created, institutions that started a strong fight against corruption were built. So no one can argue with that. It is very often deliberately silenced and only one side of the story is seen. So during the HDZ mandate, the fight against corruption began, and many people who are in front of the court today, who have been convicted, these processes began during the HDZ. But what I'd like to ask you right now is a little bit to explain your logic to me. Yesterday I saw in a daily newspaper that you said Istria was acting like a bandit cave, like a cave robber, however you like, it's a little poetic but Istria was acting like a bandit cave. There was crime, nepotism, media control, political trade, and now I'm adding to that mugging cave as far as I know you were involved, there was IDS and SDP in power, I don't know who else were partners, so you accused your party and yourself of being part of the Marauding Cave. Now explain to me how in such a vulgar way you can accuse your colleagues of HDZ MPs when you told your colleagues to Shuker, your parents were stealing, whether you felt responsible for participating in the Marauding Cave, because there was crime, nepotism, etc. Or you think that's why you're not responsible. I don't understand that logic, so let me explain the logic by which someone in the other option would be responsible and you in your option are not responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74939	Thank you. Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74940	And which one of you or which cave you've been in, Mr. Representative, have you been in for 20 years? Do you feel responsible for the way HDZ worked? Yes or no? Here, I feel the same way, in a way co-responsible but the same way I've fought this way I've fought before. And I wish I had known before, if I had known at least a part of what I know today, because maybe some things would have been different. Unlike those of you who have kept your mouth shut, at least I speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74941	Let's go back to the budget rebalance and let go of the caves. Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74942	Thank you very much. I'm not going to say anything about your deal with HDZ, and it's already known even though there's been a silence about it. But you told your colleague Cain that Europe has forced us, Europe has forced us to cut budget deficits, and that is why we have made a decision to reduce our debt by a rebalance of 7 billion kuna. Well, that deficit reduction was known immediately after our entry, which is what Europe is asking the Member States to do, so it hasn't come down to 3% since yesterday. That's what happened before. And yet the budget was passed with about 17, 18 billion, so as you say in your duties or in your dues, however you wish. Furthermore, you also talked about how GDP from 2008 was the one that was relatively high and that we would achieve this only in 2020. I would ask you not to pour additional mistrust and apathy towards the state of Croatia and to tell the citizens that this GDP will only be reached in 2020 because if the Croatian Government did all kinds of work exclusively with all powers and honestly and fairly on it and with all your intelligence, not on the side, but on its own to fix it, to enter investments with us, and not to lie, the Azerbaijani come, the Kazakhstanese come, I don't know who, so nothing. There's LNG still standing. So if we work honestly for the Croatian thing, and if we don't have things that have been tried and judged these days, there will be more of them. We see how this was done in Sisak and in the area of that which covers the Kukuriku coalition and elsewhere, then we would... /The speaker turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74943	Thank you very much. The answer to Damir Cain's replica. My colleagues and colleagues, many reported, many replicas, take care of the weather. Almost every step of the way. Damir Cain, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74944	Well, tomorrow someone can press charges against me, and nobody's a saint here, and we're all bloody under the skin, and I'm gonna say the same thing. And here in this assembly, I have no intention of dealing with anyone, so neither with HDZ. But I did say the strange ways of a gentleman who speaks of a cave of robbers. Someone late to file a report one day and gets fined for 5 million kuna, and the other, by law, everything by law. But what kind of law is that? and someone else kidnaps some public enterprises, state 5, 10 or I don't know how many million kunas or 50 clearly they have to pay back, but they don't have to pay back when they didn't take anything from anyone. What's he gonna pay back, who? And he has to pay the fine and he pays the fine of 5 million kuna. I ask myself a public question what kind of laws we bring, where is justice, where is honesty, where is the law? I probably raised my hand for that, considering that 5 million kuna is a high penalty for that, actually. And God forbid, and I'll say that, Mr. Grubisic, that we're back with the GDP that's here today, where it's on the one from 2008, 2020. Let me just say that for the first three quarters of 2007 foreign direct investment in Croatia was 2.8 billion kuna, last year 530 million kuna. I'm afraid it'll take us five, six years to get back to the period in 2007 or 2008. We've just fallen so deep and it's going to take us five, six years to achieve these results.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74945	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74946	Thank you very much. My colleague Cain, this discussion of yours belongs to that section of "blam" you know, the "glam" and "glam." This is just so a man can't believe what he hears. You often agree with everything, and at least I'm with myself, you've already proven these two years in particular. But I hear you're becoming a stagnant, some new Istrian Democrats that you'll reverse the political opportunities on the Istrian peninsula. And it's all normal to say it's expected, but what about old Caine and his 20 years in politics? The Caine who's been the candlestick of Jakovcic's politics for 20 years? Are we going to paint that? Here's what they said on 9.1.2013 in an interview. ... You said back then, I was a little criminal for 20 years, but I didn't belong to that criminal organization. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] They cheated on me, they seduced me. Jakovcic IDS leads like a mob, there's from white to media shopping. It's your interview in the Evening List last year in the wake of an election campaign. And now you're giving us lessons here, telling us about morality, and in fact you've become, ha it's hard to say harlequin, but it's just that whatever you catch defending it or ending up in bankruptcy or getting fired. I'll remind you, you defended Mirna went bankrupt, you defended the director of the tourist community, the first day you spoke, and then the second day you were relieved. So give yourselves a chance to speak constructively and something good and try to agree with yourself once.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74947	Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74948	And what about you as a member of a criminal organization? And what about you as a member of a criminal organization? While we're sitting here in Parliament selling our balls under our kidneys. Here's literally how it's going to work while it's going to do this for so long. You're talking about Mirna. You're talking about bankruptcy. The bankruptcy doesn't have to be the end, bankruptcy may be some start, we have some bankruptcy plan, but you should also know that behind that stood workers in this Mirna, and someone came by to try to take what was the tradition of that city and the Istrian industry over 140 or 150 years. They did it the same way you tried to steal this whole country but you failed and neither will those who tried to kidnap Mirna take Mirna right under our noses. I haven't been seduced, I've been on one page since I was nineties, I've been building myself, but I'm also ashamed of some behavior with my former friends, and I'm not ashamed of what I did for 20 and so many years in IDS, nor am I ashamed of the fact that I got off that team. But you're still a little criminal in one big criminal organization.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74949	My colleagues because your colleagues have not participated in this, please refrain from your personal qualifications and focus on the debate both in the replicas and in the debate. Josip Boric's injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74950	Dear Vice President. Article 238, because Mr. Cain abuses his speech directly, and he shows us and tells us that we are members of a criminal organization. And I read his interview where he himself admits to being a little criminal and that it belonged to the criminal organization that seduced him and who tricked him and it's not the same and it can't be the same. And that's why he deserves a warning, if we're going to literally interpret what's written in the Rules of Procedure, that's why I'm raising a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74951	This isn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Because how did you... You also hurt the Rules of Procedure when you mentioned in the replica some writings from last year...... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Well, yeah, but the replica isn't on the basic exposure Cain had today. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] [[Intruder: He said it, quoted him as saying.]] Please don't yell from the bench. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] [[Intruder: He hasn't even started talking yet, he's already said we're criminals.]] Don't yell from the bench Davorin Mlakar's breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[- Okay. - Okay.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74952	Dear Madam Vice President. Article 238 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure, because in his speech, Mr Cain insults and demeans other MPs who should be his colleagues. I think it's worth it to him for his speech except for a bunch of indifferences we haven't responded to, you know, give him a warning. That was why I was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. And I think at least he deserves a warning from you. His usual path and speech will be judged by voters better than your warnings.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74953	That's right, I think so, and I won't give anyone a warning. And since you're now in this breach of the Rules of Procedure, you've also disrespected your colleague for saying he's making no sense. Jasen Mesic, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74954	Dear Madam Vice President, Article 238 was injured when you spoke calmly on behalf of the SDP Club, none of us reacted as we do now. Because my colleague Cain used to talk like you wouldn't be. On the subject of budget rebalancing, he accused the entire party of being a criminal organization. And we will make a proposal, when a new Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament is made that at the entrance to the Assembly there is a drager machine through which alcohol spills cannot be entered into this Assembly speaker and also to see who is still on the white and still in the cave. Because it seems to me that sometimes it really does shift a certain quality of conversation behind this pay phone and then we have the consequences of what we have.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74955	And you see, my colleague Mesic, I wouldn't expect you to speak in this way at the Croatian Parliament. Damir Kai's injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74956	Well, unlike you, Madam Vice President, Mr Mesic does not surprise me. But about you gentlemen in HDZ, let's judge history.... 238, 238 of our Rules of Procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] As recently tried under the allegations of DORH, USKOK, the First Instance County Court, and soon these claims will also be confirmed by the second-degree Supreme Court. The difference between gentlemen under quotes "little and big criminal" is a big difference. Big, big, big difference. And what a criminal I am to judge the DORH against you and to judge the citizens of Istria. And whatever they confirm or they accept, I'll accept it as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74957	Comrade Cain, this was no violation of the Rules of Procedure at all, but you continued to fight, you continued to fight through the violations of the Rules of Procedure and all those who spoke of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Vuksic, I hope we'll be back? Oh, no? You're giving up. Goran Marić, replica Branka Juričev-Martinchev. [[Intruder: He won't give up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74958	Thank you very much. I will not give up because I would say what your teacher will say. Like this, you said, fellow Caine, that with this rebalancing, all the employees, other than the officials, remained intact. Obviously, you didn't take care of teachers and teachers, or it didn't matter to you, and by the way, it seemed to me that way. Because basic school education for gross wages has been cut off by 28 million kunas, and jubilee awards to those same teachers and teachers 10 million kunas. So high school education again for high school professors for their gross salaries 16 million less, for their jubilee rewards 4 million etc., up to nearly 60 million kuna to those who taught us first letters, who invested and worked on our education, and who we trust our children and about this behavior in particular I think it is due to the obvious that teachers would have very, very much to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74959	The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74960	So nothing to you, yes, teachers taught us how to rob a country among other things, and they're not on, and they're not. They didn't, but it turns out they did, and some of them taught very well. Look, when we talk about these fees, when we talk about these salaries, it's true, I read the same thing here, I read 69.9 million kunas less in school or in this entire pay ministry. But high school and elementary school salaries aren't touched, they are, they're precisely touched by jubilee fees, and it should be noticed as well. I said all over the vault because I was pulling my data out a little while ago, 69.9 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74961	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74962	My colleague, I think it was right when you spoke about this topic that you initially spoke of and immediately pointed out which former government deficit had left on this authority but all of what you said in the introduction rightly, you said that it was essentially one big, one big deficit of democracy. Now we know how, unfortunately, they came to power. A famous sentence two-thirds below the table, one-third on the table. So it wasn't working, so it was not politics, it was economic policy. Yes, so it wasn't about an excess in the government or government or an individual, it was about the system. And about that, unfortunately, and the court said, he had to say his own word. But now they want to tell you how they are, they are you, so part of a confession is made, but it's said we are the ones who started the fight against corruption. No, the fight against corruption began despite them, despite them. Because that's when the police didn't cooperate with the DORH at all, with an independent judicial authority. After all, it should also be said, at the time the mob had no chance of such a government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74963	Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74964	Well, among other things, one of the real victims of this fight against corruption in the HDZ ranks is your former president, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. And indeed, she's right, Mrs. Marinovic. Someone said, one-third on the table, two-thirds below the table. And it's the paradigm of one government and it's the paradigm of one system. But HDZ is not the only one in this country who simply operates that way and it should also be recognised.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74965	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74966	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Cain, I will return to your debate, to something that seemed particularly interesting to me regarding, among other things, the mention of the possibilities in the debate about what reforms are, and what they are not, layoffs from the state service. So you reminded me of the time, it seems to me that it was somewhere under the end of 2009, one of our daily papers, I'm not going to advertise it on the cover like this, just a piece of my face with my eyes and the front page was screaming the title. She doesn't have the courage to fire 20,000 people employed by the state administration, if she had the courage then, of course, Croatia would be better. I mention this because about many proposals in what are called reforms and no one really or little who says to the end what they think is under the reforms. So it's not clear to the end what it means and about state administration, layoff, reduction, yes or no, shipbuilding. It was when we started solving the shipbuilding issues of those who asked for the rescue of all shipyards and those who asked for all to be liquidated to one. It's the same today. We hear here the new head of the Chamber of Commerce says no cancellation, but we hear from the other side and his colleagues say that we will reduce or we will cut contributions, etc. I mean, once we reach a minimum of agreement, the consensus that these key reforms are in the country, then both the budget and deficit and economic growth will look different to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74967	Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74968	I only mentioned one of the measures, and I will now mention once again the newly elected Serbian Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, or one who will act with the condemnation of his actions there in the early 1990s. But one of those measures, I guess here's the thing, okay. But one thing, but I think that this new policy towards Croatia will also be new and that we can co-operate together and also perform together. But one measure will also be firing 100,000 people. I'm not asking anyone to be fired, but it's a fact, which is simply the price of a country, that today in the upgrade in Croatia it doesn't matter whether it's local self-government or state ministries for hundreds of thousands more than it is for us or for you, because I didn't work in that system in 1990. And that this system simply costs 15 billion kuna. It's about the equivalent of one deficit, and that money just needs to be found, and it just needs to be created. It is clear that, indeed, essential reforms in this country without a single political consensus can not be achieved. And it doesn't matter if it's a shipbuilding, I want to believe that we're on the right track, that we're on the right track, or that we're just in the Ministry of Finance, the economy, if I don't know where we're rescheduling to, say, the functioning of local self-government or I don't know the state department, the health care or anything else. Without real consensus, there will be no political change and no question of where it will take us one day.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74969	Clear Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74970	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Just before I tell my colleague Caine it's very bad to put a principle into this assembly that someone can tell someone it's a criminal organization. If we take that principle, then any HDZ representative or any other opposition party can call MPs from any party, the SDP, the HNS, and we won't get far. That was the main reason for our interventions. When you spoke as vice president of the Parliament, we did not intervene because you spoke calmly and correctly. As for colleagues, Caine, when you push so hard to fight corruption and justice, then you must say that the HDZ and HDZ Government led by Mrs Kosor as part of the negotiations opened the door to the fight against corruption, started fighting corruption primarily in its own ranks. We're still waiting for that sun... On the other hand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But since you're talking about this again, why don't you mention that this rebalancing reduces resources for the State's Attorney's Office. Why don't you rebel when you care so much, when you're already alone in interviews apostrophe that in some organizations there are corruption, crime or caves or whatever you call it. Then why aren't you reacting like that? Why don't you be really principled if you're already doing it on your own with your statements, but go out for the pay phone on a flat-rate basis, collectively evaluate everything as a criminal organization, great wisdom. Great enlightenment, great wisdom, great preparation for discussion. And why didn't you say the funds to the State's Attorney's Office and USKOK are shrinking, and you're pushing for the fight against corruption to continue, and anywhere in Croatia from Istria to Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74971	Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74972	I mentioned, among other things, the fact that some 8.6 million kuna DORH gets less resources to build a building in Pula than was originally intended. And I said and I criticized the openness of the pay phone that it was simply a mistake for a job that they should simply do. All I'm saying is, Mr. Mesic, I'm saying it in my head, I'm saying it in my head, and I've never improvised it to anyone, and I've never improvised it to anyone without a fact. And exactly, I don't agree that we should label each other here with claims that we are members of this criminal organization or that criminal organization, but you might be able to hold back a little while and perhaps warn some of your colleagues who have openly asked for a ban on some political organisations. For example, SDP. Gentlemen sitting in the front row today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74973	Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74974	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, how does my colleague Mesic say I'm going now? That's what I sometimes ask myself in debates like this about an extremely serious subject, and it's called budget rebalance. So I could say it would be a good idea for those who have to vote here tomorrow to come to the gallery a little bit, to see what the debates are and to give a poll to politicians. I think it would all be much more of an impact than a reminder from the Vice President of the Parliament. So, fellow Cain, when we talk about arguments and comparing Croatia and Greece and those messages that it is the same, similar or that I would just like to remind you that the 2012 deficit of the general government budget in Greece was 9%, that in the first quarter of 2013, it was 17.5%, and in the second quarter of 30.3% of the deficit in Greece and that in the second quarter there was a public debt of 169% in Greece, in Ireland 125%. So these are data that indicate that we are light years in relation to Greece, that the problems in Croatia are great, that this government is still successfully wrestling with this including this rebalancing, that the economy clearly shows the direction of recovery and that Greece is much closer to geographically, and that light years away in terms of finance, in the sense that we are much more advanced and much better than they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74975	Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74976	First, it's not possible to speak differently. The Lords on my left are giving everyone lessons, calling everyone names, trying to offend everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74977	Comrade Cain, respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74978	And that's when, well, that's what Mr. Agent said that someone from the gallery should follow our discussions and clearly evaluate us. It's true, we won't be Greece. That's what I said. Croatia can repay its obligations and this is not questionable. Croatia also reconciles its obligations all in the day. The fact is that we are in enormous debt and with this rebalancing, we are going to be in debt of $35.6 billion to be able to service the interest, or we are going to be able to service this deficit. But that's incomparably better than the original draft budget when it was planned that we had to be in debt even for 42.6 billion kuna. That's 7 billion 32 million 481 thousand 883 kuna less. And that's where I see the highest quality of this budget. And by that, and the total commitment seems to me, now I should find it in these materials, falling from that credit rating somewhere for 300 million kuna. Don't take my word for it right now, probably something more, but I'm rounding up that information. Yes, once again, I'm going to find the highest quality of this budget which this year we're still going to be incomparably less in debt than some have even planned a year before.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74979	On behalf of Croatian Labourers' Club Branko Vukšić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74980	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Linic, Mr. Lalovac and Mr. Fichor, colleagues and colleagues. Here's to me, you just resented me using a nice word to clut. The budget, as well as the rebalancing, is a legal political and economic act and it is very important because it points to the character of the government. This is the fifth rebalancing, and let's go get something on him and the circumstances in which it's being brought. While Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic is meeting with the Aboriginals, while giving lectures at Australia's universities, while watching folklore dances, while conversing with the mayor of the Sydney suburbs who has never visited a single prime minister or Australian, as he deals with painter Charles Bilic's spine, or to shorten and simplify as the prime minister walks across the farthest continent in Croatia, a budgetary battle is being fought. At a time when Croatia is either immersed or immersed, instead of preparing clear arguments for the rebalancing Mr. Zoran Milanovic is on an optional almost two-week tour which they could not afford even colonisers to increase their contributions in their southernmost colonies. It turns out that ministers have put the prime minister away until they finish this unpleasant business with no further consequences for the citizens, the economy and the future of the country. Clokans are more important to the prime minister than budget rebalances. And the budget rebalance came in the first quarter because it was prepared annually not on real indicators but on fiction. And we are not generals after the battle, we have warned that the 2014 budget is unrealistic and that the government will be forced to work rebalancing already at the beginning of the year. Unfortunately, we were right, as were all those who predicted minimal growth or even another drop in GDP in 2014. Only a misleading error from the end of 2012 when it is in the 2013 budget The government predicted a nearly 2% growth occurred a year later. Here's why. Because I believe the government had a vision, a strong vision. That vision may have shown something, but not in the state register, but in Medjugorje. When is the rebalancing of the mere necessity? When incomes and expenditures are inconsistencies. The budget is a legal and political and economic act, in economic terms, the budget is a basic instrument which affects economic flows and the behaviour of economic operators towards savings, investment and employment. With the most important objective of harmonising public expenditure with public revenues, budgetary policy has the task of optimally sharing the total resources between private and public goods, adapting the distribution of income and wealth to achieve, fairer distribution and no less important, achieving price stability, high employment rates and stable economic growth rates. Which of these functions or which of these goals in Croatia have been fulfilled in recent years? None at all. That's why we're getting more and more rebalancing, and we're about to get another one. Why? Because no structural reform has been implemented. That's why this rebalancing is also fire-fighting. What we were saying at the time of the 2014 budget, that the budget is unrealistic, that the budget is too optimistic, and the optimism that itself is not bad is even more desirable. Thus, optimism is not supported by any good economic indicator. And then, like a year before, it's clear to us that we think wrongly and sow pessimism, and I repeat, pessimists are well-informed optimists, especially in Croatia. I will speak on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, I have found that it was not difficult for me and I was not responsible for the growth forecasting on real assumptions, no structural reforms have been made, no investment climate has been created, no administrative barriers to foreign investment have been removed and there are hundreds of them still waiting for the licenses for months, there is still no one to talk to. No unnecessary State spending has been reduced, party-like experts were hired instead. Remember Stepsevic in HEP, and we have Steps at every turn. We still have a hundred unnecessary agencies, councils like those for investments that are an example of failure and spending money. Not even three, four months ago, there was courage for cuts to be made at the very beginning of 2012. There is no courage even to begin and let alone implement the reform of local self-government, state administration or not God, the judiciary that is the cancer of the Croatian state and Croatian society. Not only was there not courage and ideas for reforms, there was not even solidarity with the people who were increasingly difficult to bring the end to an end. There was no solidarity with people who couldn't pay off loans for their first apartment, so many families end up on the street. That's why expensive cars were bought for the political elite, I'm sorry they weren't bought, they were taken, we were taught by Prime Minister Milanovic who didn't know where to go with him, so he went to New Zealand. Cars are taken to Leasing as if leasing wasn't paid. When the public rightly got on their feet, the prime minister and ministers felt the need to teach the public again, cars were ordered, and contracts must be respected. When that didn't go away either because, of course, the most expensive cars could have been replaced with far cheaper cars just to be willing. The point is, we're not driving to work on carriages. Given the results, you deserve gentlemen only a shoe and a public transport. At least on the tram and bus, you'd have shared with the people you seem to have forgotten about. So there was no hearing for cheap cars and then no hearing for savings. And three months later, before going on vacation to Australia, he talks about Prime Minister Milanovic's rebalancing. It's a political decision, maybe we should have made it four and a half months ago. And what measures does the European Commission propose to save itself from excessive deficits and penalties? The gaps in the budget are temporarily patched up, by transferring payments based on the benefits of a second pillar working internship to a generational solidarity fund. It's about ten years of pooling 2.8 billion plus 400 million this year's kunas from the same source. Of course, it's not structural reform, but as I said before a fire and a very dubious measure. It will also tax the winnings of gambling but not only those above 30 but all gains below 30 thousand kuna and 10%. In this way, the state will take 300 million kunas to the citizens, as much as it has given up the tax on text messages. It is easier for citizens to take than for telecommunications companies that swim in the hunt and which make big profits from Croatia to help their countries' economies. The increase in concessions in the state will add another 300 million kuna. From the profits of public companies, the state will pass 500 million kuna into the budget, and as we ask the question, it will then increase public investment. Finally, the health insurance rate will increase from 13% to 15%. These are the revenues the government is counting on. And here's where the government will save, at the material expenditures of 750 million, on the subsidies of 700 million kuna, workers in state and public services will not be paid to pay for so far's salary increases based on years of internships achieved, and at the end of the salary of state officials will be reduced by 6% and this is according to Prime Minister Milanovic's political decision. And when we Labourists proposed a reduction in government officials' salaries by 21% of Milanovic, Kukuriku Coalition, but we are also accused of populism. And what this is is a pay cut of 6%, a dust drop in the eyes, a demagogue or a desperate move. The political decision, a decision that had absolutely nothing to do with reality, was that of reducing health contributions from 15% to 13%. I'm going to repeat when the debate on this unreasonable measure was expected, we predicted a health collapse, a black and hard-to-repaired hole. Then you told us that we have no idea how new jobs are made and what brought good to your economic recipe. Almost 70,000 more unemployed. What do employers say about the return of health contributions from 13% to 15%? HUP did not ask for a health contribution reduction two years ago. The employers of the hup witnesses were caught by that decision. Why? Because they knew that health care in debt to the throat wouldn't be able to do without the billion that were taken away. In addition, this hastened measure did not employ any workers, due to poorer health care services, due to megalomanic waiting lists and lack of medicines, workers are sicker and jobless. Of course, even institutions such as the IMF aimed at peeling the skin to a measure that does not cause immediate death have acknowledged that rigorous savings, especially not by saving citizens, or when it comes to Croatia, will not recover the funds for the minimum living needs of the economy. When you don't buy those who produce reduce production because their goods have no one to buy. Reduced production increases the number of unemployed, which, of course, reduces income in a state cash register where there is less and less money to create an investment environment. At the last cabinet session, Prime Minister Milanovic also spoke about it. I quote "Croatia is currently working and moving forward, but we will not allow radical cuts in the first year to beat growth," and we do not know what is really growing. And it is the government of Zoran Milanovic who is doing everything to defeat growth, and it only does so successfully with the short of labour rights, in which it has the hearty help of capitalists who operate in Croatia and the reduction of workers' salaries to social aid levels, the wings of such production, workers without work, workers who work and do not receive months' wages. Minister Linic, I ask you how many employers who don't pay their wages are seriously punished? Minimal workers have nothing to spend, the economy has nothing to produce it is a closed circle on which several economists have won the Nobel Prize. But look, you're not going to beat up unnecessary agencies where we spend hundreds of millions of kunas in vain, you're not going to beat down a red tape that's holding down investment, you're not going to beat local self-government units that don't even have money for the salaries of mayors and mayors. Of course, we know what Minister Linic will answer in the end, we have no money, debts are large, we don't even have enough money to serve interest, and debts should be paid back. What will the debts pay back when these fire measures are fired? There is no respected Minister Linic country that has understood, but there are respected Ministers Linic of the country who have realised that all debts are not to be paid back. There are countries that have negotiated debt, there are countries that have raised their economy on an excessive deficit, have achieved growth and have been successful today. With a maximum deficit of 3%, countries that have a growth of at least 5% can survive. This model that has imposed Brussels is a purely economic premeditated murder. Negotiations should be started with the help of partner countries, countries that are in the same or similar invisible situation about the exception, or you think it's just blind to listen. The government must represent the interests of its own citizens, not blindly without any resistance to follow the rules that kill us. Next year, there will be no transfer of savings from the second to the first pension column unless, of course, you intend to lift the second pillar of why the Labourists advocate, and in that case you cannot alienate the savings of Croatian citizens. You promised to invest in a public sector whose wheel was supposed to be state-owned companies, but you're taking 500 million kuna from them. Yes, we are interested in what your growth forecasts are, even if they are minimal in this year and about GDP growth in 2015 when you do everything you can to make sure that citizens have as little kuna in their pockets as possible. If current trends continue, if you continue to try to reduce citizens' consumption from day to day, this rebalancing will not last for 2 months. Then what are you gonna do with the holes? Although the government is on the wrong track in a largely absent Prime Minister Milanovic does not want to hear that some other people are stepping in to help him, those entrusted with the creation of conditions for the start-up of the industry obviously do not know their job. And that we're right to prove this particular rebalance and situation in the economy. As Mr. Rajedenovic said the other day, the rich will be able to tax themselves and we will talk about it in this respect, but labour law is imposed which will further deprive workers' rights. So much for the Labourist. The Labourists, of course, will not support this budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74981	Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74982	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague, you've made a lot of negative views about the agency. There may be some things standing, but I also think that you are directed that this government has reduced quite a number of agencies by revenue or wages to what is necessary, and that is to level it and to introduce order into the crowd of agencies that existed. It's also obvious that you don't know, so I'm going to instruct you, which is that the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness is monitoring 95 investment projects of total value 48 billion kuna, all investment projects of private investors, that out of 48 billion kuna, 990 million have already been realised, that the projects where the construction or installation of equipment started mean the final phase of 4 billion and 530 million kunas of realisation, and that in the phase from local to construction permits, the resolution of documentation of 38 billion kuna investment of private entrepreneurs. It is only one part that is related to the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness, without other smaller projects that exist in the Republic of Croatia and it is clear from the latest indicators of industrial production growth, that not only is exports growing but also that the investment good climate in Croatia grows.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74983	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74984	Dear fellow Gjurkovic, what was done in the agencies now we really don't know because we didn't get the information about it, we're actually arguing today how many agencies, councils and other para-state bodies, how much they cost, we tried to calculate, somewhere a billion and some kuna, how many we could count, if not, give us precise information to see how much they spend on salaries and what they do to all those agencies. If it's like you said, I'll probably hear one sentence today in Croatia is only good that the people don't feel it. The sentence was heard many times and was pronounced by the parties, mostly by the parties in power. In all the investments that you have said so, these are just mere statistics, unfortunately the reality is that in Croatia it is very bad, that there are no investments, and besides, we have often heard this from Mr. Linic that the situation is bad because we have not been able to wake up the investment cycle.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74985	Gordana Sobol, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74986	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So, my colleague Vuksic, after this debate of yours, I can only say this way that it seems to me that you have again of course managed to compose a text from which you have actually shown nothing that you can claim that you are responsible for the opposition because you have put together one text in which you have more or less incorporated the newspaper titles, subtitles and gossip sections. But the thing that bothered me the most in your debate and it's not the first time it seems to me to repeat whether you or your club are persistently repeating that debts really shouldn't be paid back. And I'm wondering if you're aware of what you said and what you're repeating and what kind of message you're sending to the citizens. Does that mean I have a debt, a loan for an apartment that I have to pay back? I can eventually settle with the bank to eventually get some kind of delay, to maybe cut the war or something, but eventually I have to pay that debt back, I'm a citizen, but it's good for the state, the state as well. And if you were really, if you were in power right now, you'd say we're not gonna pay those debts back, smoke anything, what's-it's-it's-it's, we're starting from scratch. I mean, I absolutely don't get it. And one more thing I wanted to ask you, if you can answer me in your response to my replica, which actually means structural reforms to you. Explain, what do you consider structural reforms? That's what I'd like to hear loud and clear from you Labourers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74987	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74988	My colleague, I've learned that structural reform is a master's plan, and we need to talk a little longer about structural reforms because you're doing it all in two minutes, so that's what the state looks like. You said the debts should be paid back, so you just gave the formula that you shouldn't pay back, these are pre-determined settlements, how to write off. The other thing is, please, I'm going to give you a list of at least 10 books, literature, and I'm going to give you the analyses that were made on those states that negotiated their debts and reduced the negotiations of their debts. That's what you should know and if you don't know, it's your sadness that you don't know. The second thing you said about me quoting the prime minister, I'm just the prime minister's statement in gossip section. So what does your prime minister do in gossip columns? He became the star of gossip, so when he dances with the Aboriginals, he must be in gossip columns. Instead of discussing here in the Parliament about the budget, he hid away from the eyes of the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74989	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74990	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. You have again touched on one important topic in your debate about your club's proposal to reduce the salaries of officials by 21%, and it always points to an important topic that is related to budget rebalancing and many other discussions in the Croatian Parliament. So, we'd all reform but we'd all like to reform but not a lot of people to reform. We'd all be saving but nobody would actually be saving. Because remember that your proposal was voted by an advocate who stood on the fingers of one and a little more hands. It was also proposed that, for example, parties or clubs whose number of representatives, which is the main criterion for the allocation of funds from the state budget, be reduced. So the proposal that these funds are then returned to the state budget for a certain representative who is no longer a member of that club by the end of the term of office so that Mr Linic and some other finance minister can have them, for example. for a snack of children whose parents are unemployed, and then we can also list how many representatives voted in favour of the proposal. Or, for example, about the debate on the previous referendum that perhaps the majority of us and a few voted in favour of my proposal to send the Constitutional Court to the Constitutional Court's assessment of constitutionality might have been a different decision of the Constitutional Court and perhaps we could save, say, 48, 50 million kunas which could again be directed to other necessary needs, for example, for the elemental disasters. Because part of the rebalancing for this year is just about the compensation for the elemental accidents. So often we say what we don't really mean. When there is a vote, when the final decisions come, then consciousness and conscience often fade.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74991	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74992	Dear counterparts Kosor for the wage reduction proposed by the Croatian Labour Club in the Assembly voted 7 MPs, 24 with abstentions. You see, I don't know how many replicas I'm going to have, but these past replicas have shown that none of the measures I've spoken to the Government have touched but they're touching, they're replicating the gossip section, they're replicating their boss, which is probably making them uncomfortable. They didn't say a single sentence about the pay cut we put down. No club except for you in the Parliament, I don't know who else was nobody even discussed it. It was not discussed and now 6% reduction of government officials' salaries is proposed. Now, what is it, is that populism and what I said in the debate, is that the desperate move? It will come to this, up to 21%, under duress when circumstances simply force them to cut wages when we get to the wall.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74993	Marin Jurjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74994	Here's colleague Vuksic, you'll get your wish, I'll talk about the pay cut. You've mentioned here several times how you've suggested paying officials by 21%, and look, this government has agreed to 6%. You see these are Labourists in the Parliament, these are theoretical Labourists. Those Labourists in practice who are in power rarely where, but are in power in the municipality of Križ there the opposition asked that the Labourist himself president of the municipality, his deputies, reduce the salary by 10, writeable 10%. You know how much they cut? Zero percent. They're Labourists in practice, and you're Labourists in theory here. That's the party actually I'd call her Dr. Jack or mr. High client. I just don't know who the real one is, who the real one is here in the Parliament. You who lamentate or those Labourists in the municipality of Crosses who do everything the opposite of what you're saying here. And yet the Aboriginals bother you so much? You, as god's leftists, shouldn't have such complexes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74995	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74996	First of all, I was visiting them, I was in New Zealand but not for state money, but for my own. And I was with them. There are many Croatian last names there among the Aboriginals. So as you already mention the municipality of Križ you mentioned, our chief who received power there found 13 million kunas of loss and countless liabilities. Your SDPs have proposed an increase in the cut, and not for a little while, they have suggested 6%, which you ask the citizens of the Cross what it means to them. The second thing, not SDP's, they suggested verbally, is not as the Labourists suggested the law and suggested 21% reduction in wages, but they cowardly planted and did not submit a proposal afterwards. Croatian Labourists will also cut salaries in the municipality, and we will see how SDPs will vote. Yes, and how sensitive you are to the citizens of Croatia you show it from day to day, and you will show the most when it comes to the Labour Act, when you will once again, as in 2003, turn your back on workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74997	Tomislav Jagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74998	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Vukšić. The government of the Republic of Croatia has been dealing with a series of problems over the past period, introducing order into public finances, 45 billion kuna of liquidity, 51 billion kuna of tax debt. That's what happened. Here is only this year 6.6 billion kunas for Croatian roads to be paid. The total debt is about 40 billion. Croatian roads and Croatian highways, highway Zagreb – Rijeka, so a number of problems. That's why it's not even instructions to say that reducing health care contributions from 15 to 13% so easily that saying it wasn't any help. It was an aid to the economy and in this direction the government's measure was. But then you set thee up, and I've been replicating it the other day, and I'm replicating it again. You can't claim that's what caused the health system collapse. And then you brought in another analogy and you said that poor health care also causes more and more sick workers and that this is the consequence of then at the end of this measure which is actually absurd. The health system has been built for years, he's had problems, and this particular master plan, which, of course, was attacked with certain irresponsible people, I would say. Among other things, my mayor, Virovitica-Podravska Tomislav Tolusic, who makes irresponsible statements, scares the people. But it is certain that these measures aim to bring order into the healthcare system to make the healthcare system more secure and accessible to all users. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u74999	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75000	Dear colleague Sagar and the two-way work was the same introduction of order. You started it, so you gave up because no one did any analysis of whether it was possible or not. You said the health system was being built for years. Right, and you can crash overnight what you're doing. Today the master plan is presented and he is actually another master empty rifle. For many years, Minister Ostojić spoke of a master plan to make the press more detailed, read it to yourself, it is very short and does not write anything in it. A collection of some incomplete data without having one analysis, which will be if it happens to be carried out. But it won't take long, because it'll probably take another year and a half to discuss it, and then there'll be elections where you won't win for sure. About how it was in hospitals today and how it was two, three years ago we thought it couldn't get any worse. It can be much worse, ask everyone who's been in hospitals, and it's pretty bad. And besides, what you're calling for, HDZ, is that he didn't run the country well, he lost the election. You've come, and this is the third year of your authority and still. Does that mean if you were two more mandates to discuss the third term of office in 2005, the sixth, the seventh, the eighth year? So how long? The prime minister has promised here on his inaugural speech that he will not look back on what he was. The only thing you do is look back at what happened. And about what it was, we made it clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75001	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75002	Thank you, Vice President. Well, my colleague Vuksic and I will also refer to your objection to this government for not accepting your proposal to cut the debt wages by 21%. I'm asking you, why did you suggest 21%? Because of Plan 21? Well, could you suggest 41? That would be even more generous, even more impressive, even more socially sensitive. So, I wonder what kind of message you actually want to send to citizens like this? That we're boastful and over-rich individuals who have no idea how much real estate they own, so they're actually paid just a small allowance. The truth is between us there are those. Actually, I want to tell you guys that you're playing. So you can afford to play or you really think that a 21% reduction in debt wages would contribute to reducing or reducing the budget deficit. So, I want to tell you this: it's easy for someone who has no responsibility whatsoever, and I think that primarily on responsibility for the management of the state, so the biggest, absolutely greatest responsibility, to propose a reduction of wages. But not only that, he can suggest anything, so literally anything that sounds great, and he doesn't create any responsibility for the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75003	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75004	What she said before, Vice President, I didn't expect you to hit low, but so can I. I'm not going to the lady. First of all, you say 21% and nothing will change the budget. So what are you reducing 6%? My God, you're going to get even less with 6%, which you're jumping into your own mouth. You said 21% won't change the budget, and 6% will. Oh, come on! Second of all, you said that the same privilege of pensions would not contribute to the recovery of the state. In 2005, Mr. Lesar proposed the abolition of preferential pensions. And how much support did he get? Remember. I don't know if you were in the Parliament at the time, but I followed as a journalist. That, under quotes of "populistic" measure, you came only because the public showed that she understood what you were doing and what your plan was 21. Why did we suggest 21%? So tell me what's wrong with Plan 21? Well, the symbolism is, here's Plan 21 and we suggested 21%. Do you mind? You yourself admit that Plan 21 is dead and that I should disagree with you 21% but 40%.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75005	Gold shower, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75006	Thank you, Vice President. In your discussion, you referred to how this government is lurking and watching TV operators who made a billion and 900 million kuna in the past year, and these same telecom operators fire workers, hire workers through outsorcing. We also saw the final verdict that is in favour of workers because they want to achieve as cheap a workforce as possible. On the other hand, they also hire through a student service to make as cheap a profit as possible. In the discussion you also pointed to the question of workers' rights, and this same authority for those workers who receive irregular salaries and for those workers who have not been paid for example for 5 months, and then in one amount they pay all those late salaries, this country is very taxing them, and it is certainly asking those workers who have had a irregular payment of salaries to advance this state. I have roughly calculated a worker who is 4000 kuna net salary should receive about 10 thousand kuna on the basis of tax payments to this country because this issue is not settled because the total amount of all salaries paid at that time is taxed. And that's the question of how this government applies to both these workers and that the issue cannot be solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75007	On behalf of the Club of Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HGS, aha pardon the reply to the replica Branko Vukšić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75008	Dear fellow Tušak, I mentioned this, remember, once again, it should be recalled that telecommunications houses had taxes and the collection of text taxes gathered somewhere around 300 million kunas a year. However, they gave up because they met in government with the most important members of the government and of course their pressure is stronger than the pressure of the workers. You are well aware of how much labour rights are under threat from day to day in practice, and when the law is passed, I hope that some compromise will still be reached and that the government will give up its firm stand, workers' rights will be even more vulnerable. I have already asked Mr. Linic who has been punished drastically, and should be fined drastically and the law foresees a messy salary payment. And as far as I know, about 70,000 workers are working, and they're not getting paid. All their bosses, most of them not all, drive in expensive cars, transfer property to other firms and workers remain short-sleeved. Who's protecting those workers? The Social Democratic Government? A little tomorrow!
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75009	And Sonja König, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75010	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament. My colleague Vuksic was distracted by one of your sentences saying that you consider driving public transport a punishment. Well, even as someone who uses public transport on a daily basis cannot agree with you because the use of public transport, especially well-organised public transport, has many advantages for the environment, contributions to humanity in cities and municipalities, uses local economies, saves time, travel can also be used to read and meet other people, and I don't think it's a punishment but it can be a reward. Of course, it depends on us and the ability of public administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75011	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75012	My dear colleague, König, I'm not that. Perhaps you misunderstood me. Perhaps it was me who wrongly said it could be. I don't have a car, I'm driving public transport. My president drives public transport too, he doesn't have a car and he doesn't drive a car, I don't think, I'm driving on a tram and I'm very comfortable and I've never had any discomfort. And I'm even enjoying myself and it's really good to talk to the citizens, to be in touch with them. That's why I said that for some of those who were looking for 600 thousand kuna cars, who said they wouldn't be driving in carriages, it would be a punishment to drive in public transport. Because you know a bunch of guessed people when they come to power very quickly accept everything that's best and very hard to get back to the way it is. I've never crossed from that old man despite these insinuations coming from this right-hand side of me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75013	My colleague, Jadranka Kosor, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75014	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. When we learned last week that the debate on the budget of the first one would probably be in a row this year, that it would be transferred to this week and Tuesday, then I was somehow convinced that this would coincide with the time of the Prime Minister's return from travel and that because of the fact that it was really very, very serious issues that we need to discuss here and that the Prime Minister must give some answers, I thought the Prime Minister would appear here today with the minister. It is not easy, of course, to never be Prime Minister and to be Minister of Finance. These are the two most exposed and I dare say the most responsible duties in every government and many ministers never and when it's good, especially when it's bad and when it comes to doing rebalancing are not satisfied with either the prime minister but neither with the Minister of Finance however good, involved and capable. And that's how it is now, and that's how it is in this government, and it's certain that none of the ministers whose funds were being cut were happy or clapped by Minister Linic. Why do I mention Prime Minister Milanovic? Because when this rebalancing was made and proposed at the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I said if I remember Mr. Minister well, or asked myself, asked a rhetorical question, did we need to make these decisions that we're putting into rebalancing four, five months ago? We did. Looks like we did. At the beginning of today's debate, I said something in a replica and I, so it seems to me that all these measures, regardless of whether we all supported them or didn't put them into the 2014 budget, were absolutely certain that the situation would be something different and perhaps today we wouldn't even discuss the budget rebalancing. However, this is, in fact, a debate on reforms and on the moves that should be taken about it we will never agree to discuss who is guilty, who is right, who has done what in the past period. However, Croatia is the only one for all of us, so whoever is in power, while we have such a great deficit and such big problems that I am convinced to solve more easily because we are an EU member and I think that it is precisely about the budget for this year or better put into the budget rebalancing and see because some cracks came from the EU council, so it is good that we are EU members and that we must respect the criteria under which we entered, we must respect everything that is agreed and therefore I am again satisfied with that fact that we are 28 EU members. But what's a bad message is that in the first year, full of real, absolute, full membership, we show weakness in the budget that we've sent to life. So I don't think it was a good decision to make a budget, to make a budget that was right at the beginning of our lives we have a deficit of 17,5 billion kuna. What's good, which is good, which in this rebalancing is not getting into retirement, there's no extra charge for children and maternity benefits, so only the child's allowance and maternity benefits are always around 4 billion kunas, something more, or something less, maybe. However, it is always the easiest thing to do, and it is good that the SDP Government, or the coalition government, did not stop as it was in 2001 and 2002, with the reduction of maternity benefits and allowances for children, because in the system of maternity benefits and extras for children, we also have a so-called "intellectual supplement which requires that every third and fourth child in the family who has the right to pay for an allowance is paid and this innovative allowance of 500 kuna per month. This is a moment where we may be able to reach the end of the debate and we will not because it is a practice of Croatian policy to agree on perhaps one issue, for example on one issue, for example on health reform in general. We've had many reforms, this is said, about this problem and this rebalancing but it's hard to be any kind of health reform and any reform, any areas of life that, for example, with 2.3 billion of them all the same, now I'm not talking about specific health problems, but in general I'm talking about all the discussions in the past 10 years, there's no health care reform that I repeat with additional resources two, three, four billion budgeting, means taxpayers' funds. It's not reform. And we have to try here only about this issue to come up with some kind of at least principle agreement in which direction this or any other government should go. 2014 is the year, this is the budget rebalance for 2014, this year is a double election so there will be no particular strength for some reforms, that is clear. The next and next budget for 2015 will certainly not be a budget that will be reformable because it is an election year, parliamentary elections are and with regret we can conclude that the real effects we would like to achieve as an EU member country are not there and I am afraid there will be none. And I'm not sure that, of course, not even this year's growth will be this year I'm going to call it rebalanced, but also that the deficit reduction will be possible in this year as planned, and I'm sure we'll expect at least one more rebalance, but even less if that's possible next year. I will also remind myself of some information that has been presented about the macroeconomic framework related to some macroeconomic data that needs to be compared, not to point out who was better or worse than to talk about trends. For example, here's traffic from retail to retail in 2011. 11%, but already in 2012 drop of 4.3%. Export of goods 2011. 9.8 but here until 2013 when the drop was 6.5 or 2013 in the first quarter was even greater 7.6%. Number of unemployed 2011 305.333, but here in the first quarter of this year 378 thousand so more, now it's more than 380 thousand. That's the data I'm thinking about when new measures are being taken, and we're assuming a new rebalancing. And I don't think there were any representatives of any club so far except the SDP club that talked about the possibility of us facing budget rebalance. Of course, the question remains, since they were mentioned here, I will not specifically elaborate the return of decisions to increase the health insurance rate from 13% to 15%, and others from the recent past, so from the mandate of this government to tourism VAT and more such measures would be found. So not to mention the rebalancing in the last year, the last rebalancing but there have been these indications before, and I especially remember talking about it in the 2013 budget debate, so we had to look for new funds, for example, for wages. We have a constant feeling to me that two ministries are absolutely safe where and in the last rebalancing we had to raise money for naked wages. The question is, how is this and how much is this rebalancing going to be able to hold water in the jargon? There is no word about it in these indications, but the fact is that there is also a reason to mention the funds that must be increased on the expenditure side. For example, I will not mention the rehabilitation of health institutions or pension funds of 234 million, for the unemployment benefits of 100 million and for the commitments of earlier years towards shipowners of 100 million. I won't mention all the other items or other funds. I can't believe that, for example, it couldn't be clearly and accurately calculated how long it would take for us to retire in 2014. It could and it had to be, I know what this applies to but it had to be absolutely fully shown in the budget expenditures when we were bringing it in for this year. That's what I'm saying because I'm afraid that's how it's gonna be with the money that's been paid. Remember the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education had constant problems in the Ministry of Education in particular in 2012, 2013 with salaries and insufficient resources. And then many of us said that the problem of the budget that was ahead of us was that the revenue side was over-inflated, so overrated, and the expenditure side was underrated, and I'm afraid it's one of the shortcomings and budgets ahead of us, i.e. the budget rebalancing. And if that were the case, I'd point out another piece of information. So the expenditures for employees here are planned to be reduced by 538.4 million, but given the increase in health contributions of 378 million kuna, the expenditures of only 158 million kuna are actually reduced. So that's where you increase, that's where you shrink and spin around, and that looks like some kind of merry-go-round. And then to ask the question when a spin is so spinning can anyone or whatever turns out to be a merry-go-round? Here are my colleagues and colleagues, I will not elaborate further on everything that seems to me to be kind of repeated and said many times already here in the Croatian Parliament. Just two more little notes. Since the budget of the Croatian Parliament is also projected to be reduced by 6 million 596 and 69 kuna, I suggest that we MPs make an effort to make this reduction at the expenditures of the Croatian Parliament even greater. I have seen funds being planned for the restoration of the Croatian Parliament, for some carpets, etc., I suggest that it is, indeed, not demagogy and, of course, not the means that would mean anything to anyone. But I think it's an important message and that it's always a political message that, especially the institutions that bring the rebalancing to be important, and we'd have to send it. And finally, Mr. Minister, I know it can't be done without changing the Law on the financing of political parties, but as far as I can tell, since that law hasn't changed, I suggest that the funds for the financing of political parties be reduced in total. So those, that's about 50 million kunas, those financed from the state budget. We cut everything down, we cut everywhere, we left it behind. I think I have the right to suggest this because in 2010 when I led one party, we gave up 10% of the funds and returned them to the budget and suggested that all other parties do the same. So I think the same thing at that level, the political messages would be good and it would be important to cut those funds to finance political parties from the state budget by at least 10%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75015	Thank you, too. Moving to replicas, Branko Vuksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75016	Dear colleagues, Kosor, you have also dared to express regret that there is no Mr Milanovic here, which is not here to defend the budget. Yeah, we believed he'd come back from the road, my colleagues from the SDP are angry that we resented, I didn't, I don't think that you, I haven't heard your attitude about it, so I'm not talking about you, I'm not talking about you, I'm going to fence myself right now, but it's a lot of times that's got attention here. I ask which statesman has recently gone on the road without knowing what he's going to be doing there, no one has gone further, so he hasn't gone on a private trip in 12 days. The country is in a catastrophic situation, said the former prime minister in bananas or in a whole case of bananas and the prime minister is leaving for 12 days, meeting with the mayor of Sydney suburbs and Charles Bilich. And when we mention it, then we're the people who quote gossip sections. And he became a gossip star. It's absolutely certain that it's unserious, that it's a relationship to the state, a simple man, and like he says, I don't care anymore, I'm going to travel around the world for a while now. Maybe that's good, maybe there'll be less damage.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75017	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75018	Thank you, dear colleague Vuksic. I wouldn't say that if I had expressed regret or regret, I said that I wish the Prime Minister were here and I said why. Because at the government's meeting when the rebalancing was being carried out, the budget rebalance proposal wondered if we should have done it 4, 5 months ago and agreed with ourselves that we should have. So if we had all these measures, if we had brought them in before they might have had a greater effect. So I think it was good that he was here as well as I think it would have been good if the Prime Minister had been here when we proposed a new chief state attorney these are these strong messages that are, of course, always expected from the Prime Minister. Otherwise, I believe that the Prime Ministers and ministers must travel, that this is always good, that they must travel, that they must build bridges all the time, but these travels can also always be coordinated with the host country, or the host prime minister, and time chosen which is most favourable. So I think the Prime Minister, Mr Milanovic, could have chosen, for example, a time when all these rebalancing jobs are completed, so when there is a break in the work of the Parliament's session that there is as little dispute over his journey. And I think no matter what it was so far that it could have been something shorter because the problems and the work are over his head, you can also work 15, 16 hours a day. As for Mr. Charles Billich, I'm glad Mr. Billich said that he would start doing portraits of former Croatian, all Croatian prime ministers, that he would start with Mr. Milanovic, so I'm glad, I guess some portrait will one day make which I will be able to put somewhere. I'm just kidding. But certainly, you should travel but you should measure both the time and of course the means that you invest in this journey and finally the effects of any journey.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75019	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75020	Thank you very much. Your colleagues Kosor said here you regret that there is no Prime Minister to give him their impressions of this budget rebalancing, and here is no news of what he is currently doing even though he is on his way, we hope that Malaysia Airlines did not fly, so I guess we'll see him in Croatia. Or he may be lagging behind on the road from New Zealand via Bali to Croatia. But the joke aside, you were talking about points, some of the points of the budget that seem illogical to you, or that they are not in line with the general state of society and the state. So here's to inform you that I've made quite an effort to add up all the funds invested in information to all the ministries, agencies and others. And do you know how much you invest in these new machines, make it to say computer, etc.? How much do you think is in this budget, the budget rebalance? Even reduced funds compared to before, but somewhere around 550 million kunas now amount to those funds, 550 million kunas in information. And whatever more computers we have, we have more people who have to give data, instead of having fewer, to reduce the number of government employees we have more employees in state services. Furthermore, here are 700 million kunas of the state's health savings. Although health care is in the state it is, a master plan which actually reduces the availability of hospitals to our patients would be said to be a master is a disaster, is it a disaster? For 700 million kuna, health care is taken away. Whose agreement is that I don't know the Minister of Health and the Minister of Finance doesn't know. But our finance minister is making a lot of effort. Here's just one sentence. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]] To curb the great desires and various fellow ministers' appetites. I'd say he's exposed like Slavko from a joke or a story about Mirk and Slavko. Slavko's watching the bullet.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75021	Thank you, colleague Grubisic. Answer, colleague Kosor, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75022	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic, I repeat, I did not complain that the president did say the same thing that I was complaining about and that I would bring him a regret about some rebalancing decisions. No, it's not, because we're going to discuss rebalancing with sovereignty and without the Prime Minister. But I think it would be good because it's only the beginning of 2014 and the rebalancing is only being brought as the 2014 budget has passed. It would be a good idea if the Prime Minister were here and I think he could respond equally relevantly, i.e. by making a reply to what is being debated here, which is the relationship between him, the Minister of Finance, etc. So all these speculations would fall off and it's good always, because I repeat, it's not easy to do that job no matter how good or bad a man does it. As far as information is concerned, I think our state administration must be informed in order to be effective and to be in the service of citizens. But I agree with you that it is necessary to question every kuna and every lip not only on that item but on each other, because this way when you look at the budget from a distance, then you see again, or rebalancing, that some items in the rebalancing are just touched, that they are not much cut and we know. These are some items for both material expenditure and representation, etc. And maybe they could've done more. However, this, experience is said to do nothing in particular. In particular, if we had to structurally change our budget in which I don't know 80, 85% given. And that's the problem for both this and all the next governments that come if of course it doesn't happen. an explosion of economic growth. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75023	Thank you. Zeljko Schamper, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75024	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Kosor, you mentioned the amounts for pensions that are in this rebalancing. So I'd like to remind you, unlike your mandate, that pensions, or pension coordination, were frozen. In 2012 and 2013, pensions are consistent with 4.3% and for information on everyone that in the last year the amount for pensions was more than 827 million compared to 2012 it is 2.4% and that this significantly improved we can thus say the blood count of the pensioners where the pension from 2151 kuna grew to 2266 kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75025	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75026	It's true that pensions were frozen, it's true. Of course I didn't say they weren't. It's true. But it's just as true, and you know it well that in those years we've paid, or paid back, the debt to the pensioners. It was about every year if I remember billions well. Right? So it was supposed to be found somewhere, too, and it was supposed to be found somewhere. Now we can discuss whether it was the best solution or not, but it had to be found. But you also know that in 2011, everything else was frozen and the budget, or budget expenditures were frozen, remained at the level of 2010. And in such frozen expenditures, we have included new 4 billion commitments from interest to the same means of pensions and new commitments both towards the European Union and others. So that was the year 2011 without budget rebalancing. Of course, but last year we also had a special tax that did not touch the pensioners up to 3,000 kuna pensions, etc. So I'm not running away from those facts that were real at the time to somehow stabilize state finances.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75027	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS club and independent representative Furi Radina Giovanni Sponza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75028	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed deputy minister with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. This budget rebalance we at the IDS Club see as necessary and as the necessary measure of stabilising public finances. That's why we want to support the rebalancing. The state budget thus and this rebalancing is actually a picture of the situation in Croatia, and in the debate on rebalancing itself, I believe that we should first of all be responsible, be ready to look the truth in the eyes and say that this rebalancing indicates that Croatia is in a very difficult situation, a situation that has not occurred yesterday, but lasts and develops for 23 years. We should certainly consider and deeply respect the weight of the Homeland War. We should certainly consider and respect the weight of the postwar problem and the restoration of the destroyed parts of our country. But we also need to make it clear that false decisions have been made in the work, unfortunately decisions with adverse consequences, decisions culminating in this too long period of global and particularly economic crisis. I said that this budget rebalancing indicates that Croatia is in a difficult situation, but I would also like to stress that I advocate the view that Croatia has a perspective, that Croatia has untapped potential, that there are unused resources that need to be put into place more strongly, and if we really want to do so by means of a proactive approach and concrete measures, we can primarily reduce unemployment, create new jobs, increase the income of the economy, consequently and the budget from state to local, which will then have positive effects on both public services and on education and on health and pension income. Of course all that can be done, the question is whether or not we want to. I think we need that, but with a completely different approach and under different political standards. First, we need to start our esteemed colleagues and colleagues by ourselves. And today's debate has shown that there is no usefulness to each other's accusations, from a political destruction that needs to be replaced by a culture of dialogue and the power of arguments. We need to suppress narrow interests, we need to stop being exclusive, we need to be responsible because it is our obligation to find a solution to how to respond politically to the challenges of time, times that are difficult not only for Croatia but for most countries in the world. In order for the system to function, the system to work, to make the system sustainable and stable, what we first need to do is to restore hope, optimism, trust to all the inhabitants of our country. We just have to because people need jobs, people need jobs, people need security. And to do this again, I will have to start by myself, become open, be ready and hear and accept good proposals regardless of whose side they come from, impose key topics with a view to addressing the problem of unemployment, social uncertainty, impose key issues of economic issues that guarantee the financial stability of the state. We have to because there's no time to hesitate. Otherwise, this rebalance doesn't make sense. Dear colleagues and colleagues in this meeting of the Croatian Parliament have us and not a small number of commissioners, mayors, mayors and mayors and I believe that one of the important ones, but what is more important in response to the crisis is decentralisation. We from IDS are constantly in favour of decentralisation and it is up to us all to work together to create stable and sustainable conditions of implementation of decentralisation. The potentials can best be used at the level of the nearest citizens, the development can happen quickly from below with clear rules, stable and clear system infrastructure but always under sustainability. We are obliged for citizens to preserve all the most valuable things that have kept generations ahead of us, in the end and from citizens, we have been given the mandate to protect the public good. The IDS is open to all constructive ideas, the IDS supports all initiatives that will improve Croatia's citizens, increase employment, ensure the long-term growth and development of Croatia. These are the topics by which we IDS representatives want to contribute. So, yes, for rebalancing but let's change because it's about time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75029	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS club Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75030	Dear Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Someone said this must not be the last rebalancing we'll have this year. And that's the only thing that's safe about this budget imbalance. I'm afraid that everything else that's planned with the budget's rebalance is less secure than that fact. But we understand the circumstances in which we find ourselves. We found ourselves in a situation that even once we realized that we had nothing to bury at the bottom of the pot where we cooked milk to do it again. And we'll meet again in a few months in that situation. And the basic question is actually, can we change something, can we do something to change it? Can we finally do something without the budget issue being just a matter of part of the government's fiscal measures? Is there anything we can do to ensure that the matter of the budget is not just a matter of fire measures by the Minister of Finance and his first associates? This time under the express pressure of the European Commission. Where, of course, is the question of whether this pressure should have been fully satisfied? Was it really meant to go to a reduction of up to 4 billion kuna or could it have been extended for a long time? That's a question we'd like to hear from the minister here in the Parliament. Since we haven't had the opportunity to hear it any other way, since it wasn't discussed in other forums then it would be good to hear it. And we know he's the minister and you're the one who's in trouble when it comes to the whole budget business. about the budget. What I'd like to say here is how realistic is it to actually achieve these planned savings in the budget? And I know they have to be achieved, but how realistic is it to be, for example. that, at 500 million kuna, as planned by reducing salary supplements, it is indeed 500 million kunas, and not let's say 400 million kunas, as it is probably earlier, given that the tax base with this reduction will be lower and that on other aspects that the reduction, the real wage reduction carries with it such as consumption... The second important issue is of course the issue of co-ordination of the finance ministry's measures with other ministries. For example, a good example would be the issue of co-ordination between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance. So, we are now returning at the European Commission's order or at the request of the European Commission, again, to the fact that the contribution to healthcare will be 15%. In the meantime, we've lost again in health care and, of course, we have circumstances where we see that this attempt, to make savings, to free the money for the economy, proved to be a failure, for what? Whether because of the ministry, whether because of the economy, whether because of the lack of other economic measures that seem to me to be one of the fundamental difficulties in the government's policy, there is unfortunately not enough debate, and there is not enough debate in the public and there is not enough of it within political circles. And it is quite clear that the efforts made by the Ministry of Finance, of which a significant part of the effort is assessed positively by the general public, and not only by the general public, are actually faced with huge difficulties precisely because there is no full economic policy, because there is no overall economic policy measures. And because there's probably no necessary coordination within the government itself. And in leading the general government policy and this is a serious problem, it is a serious problem for us MPs in the Croatian Parliament when we address the current finance minister here because we know that not all responsibility can be on him, but at the same time we knew it a year ago, that he will be waiting for this kind of trouble, that with all the positive assessments he is experiencing and that the public will actually have a good part of these assessments will be broken because other mechanisms are missing. What would interest me as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, one of the euro enthusiasts in this House and in Croatian politics who has been our balance in the last year and a half with the EU, and what we can expect in the next year or a year or a half, is the balance as negative as we could hear some speak, government members or the balance is as positive as some other members of the government say. This is not a question of competition or whether it is not a question of perception of one or another member of the government, it is simply a serious question of responsibility which should be done under the given circumstances, that we know what the facts are. We would like to know what the losses from the title of customs are, probably not large given that we have already been in some way but we would like to see how large they are, we would like to see what they are from the title of our membership fee and how much they are re-income, given the use of European funds and the use of other sources, we would like to know that because it is one of the places where our obligations have to be met on one side. So, we have to pay our membership fee regardless of whether we're capable of it or not, whether we have money or we don't have money, we have to find them, but when it comes to withdrawing funds from the total envelope that belongs to us, the ones that are provided to us is the matter of our ability, our readiness and our work. And since it's not just about millions of kunas, it's about billions of kunas, what we'd be interested in is what the results are in this regard. What I would like to ask, Mr. Minister, in addition to these general topics and general issues that plague our budget and budgetary policy, once again as a problem in the name of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, is a negative trend in the security of budgetary resources when housing and former homeowners are due to housing and the housing of residents and returnees in areas of special state care, as well as the issue of restoration in the war of destroyed houses. So if we start from 2011 when the total amount was 607 million 817 thousand 776 for both programmes and for renovation and housing. And if we see that this amount has been significantly reduced if we take that each year it has remained, that amount remains at the level of 607 million kuna every year in these budget changes has been changed by its rebalancing, that reduction would be the total withdrawal from that item somewhere around 700 million kuna. And do we keep in mind that last year only three apartments were assigned, that the renovation was almost stopped then they were absolutely worrying data. Concerning data for two reasons. First because anyway these people have long waited for a solution to their housing problems, and on the other hand, and the little construction activity that was related to it, and it was tied to it, is de facto with this fit. I do not know what the team has achieved and how much savings it has achieved but I am deeply convinced that the losses are significantly higher not only in terms of the realisation of rights but also in terms of investing in those areas which, on one hand, live on state donations, either on the basis of pension, whether on the basis of concerns, or on the basis of the contribution of the state unit of local self-government. And this type of activity was supposed to provide something more than it had provided for years until 2011 which activity was very important. In different areas, different smaller companies have significantly contributed to some type of activity in this area. The problem of reelectrication that we've been talking about when we're voting this budget that we're talking about on rebalancing quite emotionally, and probably some people are getting hurt, I'm not going to talk about it right now, but that remains a really serious problem. That the people who had the power, who, thanks to the raiders on the one hand, the robbers on the other hand, and on the other hand, did not completely care about the state without that power, today because we all have to save then they will be the first ones to save, and then for the re-electrication of those 200-year-olds the settlements will not be singled out in the past two years. For this reason, Mr. Minister, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS expresses its regret that the trend in the reduction of funds for renovation and housing is continuing, which is still not seen as a solution when restructure is made, and on the other hand, we are expressing concern with you that this measure that you have presented to the Assembly today carries certain risks around success, and especially because it is not followed by measures of economic policies of another kind which would guarantee that in a few months we will not have a budget rebalance again and thus face the fact that the issue of the budget cannot be considered the only mechanism that will regulate economic policy measures but vice versa, that economic policy measures will be projected in the long term, which will be the Croatian budget will be mirrored or reflect the economic policy measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75031	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75032	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Pupovac, you have well noticed in the budget on these 109 pages that here I will specifically say the figures, that in the rebalancing of the budget from the renewal item where 56 million kuna was scheduled, the new item is 35.5 million kuna, so the reduction by 21 million kuna. Furthermore, in almost all ministries, we see that there are still new car purchases, i.e. the restoration of the rolling stock. So despite this order that has passed nearly a thousand and almost 600 cars, we still have requirements to rebuild the fleet. We're looking at a broadband item, it's not a big item, it's 800 thousand kuna, it's now 650 thousand kuna. So the fact that it really takes that 800 thousand kunas for a broadband internet in many areas where it's not here and we've cut it down. Look, the universities from the state budget, namely the reduction in Split by 1 million kuna, in Rijeka there are no reductions for the University of Rijeka, very interesting. In Zagreb minus 2 million kuna for the University of Zagreb, very interesting. There is no reduction in any kuna in Pula, there is also no decrease in Zadar, and there is a reduction of 500 thousand kuna in Osijek. The Croatian Red Cross was 3 million, now 10% less than 2700. And so from item to item, I'm not talking about the so-called items. information. I'm aware that it's a modern age and that information is needed, but if I tell you it's for example. for the Ministry of Agriculture provided for the information of 3 million 900 thousand. Then again for some agency in agriculture 2.5 million. So to inform the Ministry of Environmental Protection, 16 million kunas would now be reduced to 800 thousand Then the Ministry of Tourism for Informing a million and... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] That's terrible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: Time is a colleague of Grubisic.]] So the money could have been on this spending side and distributed differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75033	Thank you. There's no answer. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the National Minority Club Veljko Kajtazi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75034	Dear Vice President, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. I am aware of the difficult circumstances under which the ministry and government have brought this budget rebalance, national minorities as well as all Croatian citizens are directly covered by austerity measures. Unfortunately, I personally believe that national minorities did not need to reduce budgets to this extent. The consequences will be felt by many projects of importance for all national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, especially those of the social and economic most vulnerable. Another significant problem that I have already warned several times about is the categorisation of budgetary resources that is changing whenever it comes to the new budget and the rebalancing of the existing one. This significantly makes it difficult to track money i.e. it shall not be possible to determine where the money has been re-routed and saved on certain items. I have been insisting for a long time on specific items within individual portfolios to see exactly how much money is intended for example for the Roma national minority. In this way, we can see whether the funds have been spent for this purpose and how we can repurpose the funds if necessary. The scholarship rate for the Roma National Minority under the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is a good example of categorization. However, we had a big problem that those funds that were not spent for this purpose were being re-used within the same portfolio. I hope we can fix this problem in the future. The biggest problem in this rebalancing is the budget, perhaps the item of the Action Plan of the Decade for Roma inclusion under the Croatian Employment Service. Only that item, which is one of the few visible ones, saw a reduction in funds of 6 million 884 thousand kuna. Today I received information that the system of public works should now be organized according to a different model. A total of 16.5m euros can be obtained through EU funding. Out of that amount, 5m euros are intended for long-term unemployed members of the Roma national minority and young people up to 29 years old. These amounts, of course, depend on quality projects that are later to be approved. The problem of such an approach is the absence of the Roma community's capacity to engage in project creation and I sincerely hope that the institution and the Croatian Employment Service will help this segment. I must stress that public works in this time of economic crisis may represent the only straw of rescue for many members of the Roma community, since the change in legislation has largely stopped the collection of secondary raw materials. Earlier in the years when there were funds for public works Roma and were not too interested in such a type of employment since they were engaged in their traditional activities. Following Croatia's entry into the European Union and changing the legal regulatory need for public works has become much greater. Many Roma have provided minimal income through public works for their traditional large families. When the budget item, the action plan amounted to 10 million kunas through the programme, we were able to engage more than 460 Roma each year, which in this way have been advocating but also contributing to the benefits and various social inclusions in society. Now that budget funding has been reduced and EU projects through which public works would be financed have not yet been approved remain to see how much Roma will be involved in public works programmes in the future. The creation of working habits in the Roma community is extremely important for the development of the community. I fear that reducing employment can also lead to an increase in violence and criminal activities within the community. I also believe that despite the great budget deficit and the need for savings, the continuity of the reduction of resources to the Council for National Minorities should be halted. Such practice continues, for several years in a row, limited quality projects and the amount of assistance that this Council grants to members of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. I think we are all aware of the importance that the Council represents in the institutional structure of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia in particular in the system of support of vulnerable members of national minorities. A good example is the Roma and Russian national minorities who depend on the Council's financial resources, since they do not have their home state and other sources of funding. We are concerned that reducing resources will make it even harder to realise quality projects. The increase in the resources of the Human Rights and Rights Office of National Minorities is a positive thing, if we notice that almost all other items concerning national minority rebalancing have mostly brought a reduction of funds. I hope that the increase in funds will be used to support projects of importance for national minorities. Unfortunately, under the Roma Programme, there has been a reduction of more than 250,000 kuna which will significantly affect the implementation of the programme of importance for the Roma national minority. Rebalans also reduces the funds under the term Promoting Human Rights which I personally consider a bad move in view of the worsening situation in the area of human and minority rights in the Republic of Croatia. The deterioration in the human rights protection situation is particularly visible after entering the European Union, which is a very bad message that we are sending as a society. Although the economic crisis is a good excuse to reduce human rights funds at such times, there is a threat of a number of minorities that we must fight as a society. In 2003, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the National Programme for Roma, and last year a new National Strategy for Roma Integration. The national strategy for Roma inclusion is one of the basic documents that create a condition for the progress of the Roma community in the Republic of Croatia. These documents cover the area of housing, education, employment, healthcare, and social status issues. Rebalancing for these activities under paragraph 513041 plans 191000 kuna. With this approach, we will not be able to even complete existing projects, let alone start new projects that contribute to Roma integration in the Republic of Croatia. Back in several years, international conferences mention the amount of 40 to 60 million kunas that the government singles out to improve the quality of life and the status of Roma in the Republic of Croatia. The rebalancing of the budget backwards for two years shows that the situation is far from the amounts mentioned. Bringing such information brings confusion to both the Roma community and the majority population. Once again, I would like to ask that the next budget proposal makes it clear exactly how much money is provided for each national minority. In particular, I would like to mention the Roma National Minority, which has two strategic documents, and there are no developed items and sub-items in the budget. I've already turned my attention a few times, and I'm asking for it to be introduced. And while this rebalancing budget on all items of national minority funding has been reduced by a total of 8 million 148 thousand 620 kuna, only to the Roma national minority the funds have been reduced by a total of 5 million 613 thousand kuna, which is the true unbalanced burden that this national minority bear with the rebalancing of this budget. National minorities are aware of the gravity of the situation in which our society is located. Unfortunately, our small share in the budget cannot significantly affect the deficit reduction, while the reduction for us represents a questionable realization of important projects, and will hit everyone, especially the poorest and most vulnerable Roma national minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75035	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75036	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Kajtazi, there's one saying that you'll understand just as well as the others. It says "where will the tears of the eye" and when we look at the budget and here the items are allocated either in the budget, or in the budget rebalance where we don't see the differences between those items in the budget and the budget rebalances. So there are no reductions, no increases, and the rest are almost the same for all national minorities except for Roma, which is very interesting. That's why I'm saying where the tears will be on the eye, and you've put them in what items it is to say to the Roma National Minority not to say cut, but where there's been a reduction and it's really questionable how to implement both the action plan and everything else that's meant for integration, inclusion, so Roma in this community if these items stay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75037	Thank you. Come in, my colleague Kajtazi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75038	Thanks, buddy. I fully agree with you and that is one of the reasons why I would like to invite all my colleagues and colleagues to visit all Roma settlements together once and see how much has been invested in Roma settlements and what has been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75039	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75040	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, with the deputy and assistant, colleagues and fellow MPs. We all know that the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance is the main and responsible person in whom both citizens of the Republic of Croatia and all ministers are facing each other. The Ministry of Finance is a heart, I would say so when we look at the human organism, the heart and the pump actually all along the Ministry of Economy of the entire system. And now that we're looking at the minister and what he's exposed today in a situation where it's quite clear that it's a constant economic downturn, a permanent downturn, I'd say such exports, a permanent decline in gross social product, a permanent decline in production, a decline in consumption, a drop in investment or investment, a drop in credit ratings not only in the form of what's called garbage. What else comes under the trash? I wouldn't want to be free to say it, but that's what it is. They're going down, our citizens' paying powers are going down, they're going down like Rohatinski said they shouldn't fall. But we have growth on the other side of unemployment, the rise in the cost of the state, the growth of public debt and growth, was the rise in deficits of the Republic of Croatia's budget. In such a situation, every minister and every ministry seeks to contact the Minister of Finance and his team to do as well as possible. Once, the prime minister of a state that is not here now, but just south of Zagreb said that the global crisis of economic Croatia will only tick. But he was wrong or he didn't get ready for what was waiting for us all, and it was known that we were living on debts, that since 2000 we have been in charge of enormously starting with the government of the SDP. I'm not esculating here, not the SDP, not the HDZ. The rise in debt, the constant trend in debt growth has been enormous since 2000. That's what Mr. Shucker and everyone else know. And then once I already said here, Mr. Finance Minister, who, in agreement with the other ministers, simply has to be careful. He says, "Slavko is watching the bullet, but he's being shot by a little Jacob, so he's getting shot by a Greek, and that's the one." All of them, if in their ministry, they had certain items, Slavko was watching the bullet, watching the VAT. All right, whatever you want. We won't comment. But what else do you say? In anticipation of better times, Cain says that in 2020, in the expectation of Godot or perhaps in the year 2525, when GDP will come to us or even with the one from 2008 in that amount, I am optimistic, regardless of the situation and on the edge on which we are, actually on the edge of what is called concrete debt slavery. Because we know and see the effects of this debt slavery in the fact that 300 thousand citizens have blocked accounts. Billions of kunas are in this process where the banks that live, their managers right on the downs of citizens, so that's where they live, of which they share their bonuses. We have to tell our minister and he knows it. Of course the state has its own interests and goals towards banks, so then that relationship is what we're going to be a little bit more loose. What about health care? Here we are today after a long and long wait, keeping in suspense every day we get a master plan today. Well, in translation, I don't even know what to call it, some big plan for hospitals or I don't know, and you could say the English master is a disaster. Because, that's exactly a disaster yes, because the availability of treatment and the availability of hospitals to our citizens will be significantly lower. 30% less beds mean more traffic and more order of waiting for interventions in hospitals. And now we have a wait in hospitals for interventions, let alone now that this so-called. The famous French-Serbian master plan they came up with for 200,000 euros some combination of some people from France and Serbia say yes. Let's get this straight. I have noticed in this budget that there is virtually no ministry or agency or office of the state administration has anything, and there is no information. I just said that in replicas. Very interesting. And it's like 200 grand, one million kuna, three million as if it's shared by hand and hat, and we're just informing ourselves. It's like we've never had any computers in those departments before. So I summed up, I watched, I wrote, I was so persistent that I spent this whole break from 13.30 to 15.00 to sum up all the items on the information, and maybe the ministry didn't do it either. So all items on information in all ministries except, and later I included Croatian water and Croatian highways, and I saw that it was about 550 million kuna equipment in information. Five hundred and fifty million kunas! Because it could have gone less? Here, for example, the Republic of Croatia's combat vehicle budget at Đuri Djakovic provided support of 123 million kuna. Now it's 71 million and 700 thousand kuna. Although, we know what the state of Djuro Djakovic is, you know, it is already a known loss that 65 million kuna is known, and what is unknown will be a hundred. The restoration, as my colleague Pupovac said, from a $56 million reduction in the rebalancing rate to 35.5 million kuna. In almost every ministry or agency you have items of reconstruction of the fleet. After you bought them, I didn't buy them or order what Vuksic says I go tram to work in the Assembly every day and communicate with people on the tram and with the driver especially, so we have, so new car purchases for the ministry are done this way through the budget. You have the budget, the budget rebalance. Defence from fighting, which is very important for agricultural areas, especially for our Slavonia, with 14.5 million kuna rebalancing is reduced to 13.7 million kuna. With all the time, not to say one displeasure, that only a third of those rockets that are purchased from Djuro Djakovic's toolbox, a third from Bulgaria, a third from Serbia or Macedonia, so only a third of them get our "Djuro Djakovic" who sells their license in Macedonia and Bulgaria, so for continuing objections that it is not effective, that it is not effective, that it has something up to the network and I don't know what either. Because someone else lobbys for those other means, not for this missile system that's by the way to say half-destructed. Half of it works, half of it doesn't work, and we do, really now we have a bit of an ineffective system. But here we have reduced from 14.5 million kuna to 13.7 million kuna. The University, so 0.7% of Croatia stands out for science, is that right, Mr. Flego, you know that. At least average of all EU countries, 0.7%. And now we have universities, these 5 seas as I say, pardon 4 sea dishes, five, Pula, Rijeka, Zadar, Split and Dubrovnik, five seas, the main centre of our Zagreb university... and Osijek Josip Juraj Strossmayer and look wonders, the reduction of support for universities in Split by million kuna, in Rijeka remained the same amount, in Zagreb 2 million kunas less, in Pula there remained the same as there was, so nothing, there is a reduction and a very interesting distribution of these reductions and leaving the same figures. I don't want to alludate to say certain political support in these areas to the Kukurik coalition itself but I mean symptomatically, more than symptomatically, therefore, Zadar has nothing and in Osijek minus 500 thousand kuna for Osijek University. The peace fighters of Bea I wouldn't want to be bad, they're the same and they stay the same for years, 362 million kuna as if no one alive is going the biological path as it would normally be 45 years old to simply biologically reduce the number of people. The Croatian Red Cross as an institution of humanitarian importance is a 10% reduction from three million to 2.7 million kuna. This government is seeking to meet the demands of the European Commission, the Union and the Council, the European Parliament however you want to reduce the budget deficit to 3% over three years. With this first procedure, which on both the income and the expenditure side is trying to find some balance, we have a savings of about 7, a decrease of about 7 billion kuna, and then it will fall to 4.5% of the budget deficit. But the problem is that the expenditure side of the Croatian State budget is almost 40% of GDP, which affects 40 GDP. There's a problem, and our GDP is either stagniating or falling all the time, for the seventh quarter, is that right, Mr. Shucker, the seventh quarter is falling GDP, where's luck? That it does not age Kajinov until 2020 to start growth so that we can get what we want by moving GDP, that this reduces in the share of the expenditure side if it stands the same and GDP increases, so clearly that the expenditure side will be smaller, and how will this be achieved? Only economic growth, investment, new employment. We haven't heard anything about it today, which is a plan, which is a large strategic so-called investment in Croatia, said the Croatian Railways, so HZ CAERGO was ruined by the work of this government and Minister Hajdas Doncic, ruined, drives into the unknown, direction of the break-in. Infrastructure, what are Mr. Linic's blurry jobs in the Croatian railway? You want me to bring you documents on this, and where we're going to help, ask for money from Europe for the Croatian railways. Energy, what is energy? ... plates on the coal, thermal power plant in Plomin which will only begin to be built if everything is resolved in 2017. So they say on Croatian Radio, that construction will begin, and what will we do by 2017? The government will also change, one more maybe two, what are we going to do by 2017? Where are the investments before that, where are our fast investments? Where's that short-term program, it's gone. And then Cain really turns out right when he says that maybe we'll reach the 2008 GDP in 2020. Don't think I'm saying this because I'm bad and I mean bad and I think negative and I want to talk about you, not personally, but about this government ugly, but the situation is what it is. I can't fix anything with my speech, I can make as beautiful as you want, but that's the way it is. It is said like this, that there is someone said here, it seems to me that there are two if, if Croatia can recover if it uses EU funds and implements structural reforms. And we're all talking about structural reforms, and we're not saying exactly what structural reforms mean, structural reforms, structural reforms. Mr Linic said that there are both structural and not structural measures, he didn't exactly separate those two things, but we are talking about EU funds, how we will withdraw what we have the most chances, to withdraw from the rural development funds, where he has the most money if in 4 months the EU twice returns the rural development strategy programme as incorrect. 300 pages of correction, so how do we withdraw funds? Therefore, the HDSSB Club is not satisfied with this development and this new redistribution of the rebalancing and the revenue side that we are not talking about, and then we cannot be in favour of this kind of budget rebalancing. Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75041	Thank you. We have one replica, Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75042	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Grubisic, I think you'll agree with me if I say that certain governments, or certain ministers and finance and resolution ministries, were at a time when they had a surplus budget, so the most painful thing for them was to deploy that money to who to give, while in the deficit, it was certainly the main thought of who to take away, or what cuts to make. You also mentioned the health sector, and I think we'll agree that this is the most problematic part of the sector's debt, doctor's departures, etc. Namely, the social health system was very often abused, abused because they were partial interests, then they were party hospitals, let's remember the county hospitals when the mayor was hired and now, of course, such a situation has been created as it is. Why am I saying that? It's precisely because we have reports and recovery reports and audits of the hospital systems, etc. So the patient's health was somewhere else. Of course it took health reform and surprised me, today was the master's plan, I think it's still said, it hasn't dried up in ink, and you're already in this way on the first day of the public debate, in this way ignoring this master plan as actually part of the health reform that needs to be done, and let's remember that when it's represented here and fiscalization, let's remember that there's been a call and that, however, here's today the fact that hospitality, trade and lawyers have reported 17.82% more or 8 billion more traffic since 2012. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75043	Thank you. It's time, co-worker. We have an answer, colleague Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75044	Thank you very much. Health colleagues, Dubrovnik, your Octal Pharmi, owes 3 years for drugs, 3 years, 36 months, knows that Mr. Lalovec is with my brother who is good at Octal Pharma, and let's be specific and clear, not to say privately. Furthermore, recovery directors send reports from the field that are worse than they were reports before we took office, more hospital debts than they were before. What are we talking about? What recovery directors? Set up by a directive... set up, people who are incompetent, who have never managed anything, not even home counseling. You want me to tell you about the recovery director in Slavonski Brod? I won't speak a specific name or speak nicely. Furthermore, the last payment to wholesales was in the 6th month 2013, in the 6th month 2013, nothing was paid more. It's facts, it's done by your government, your Ministry of Health. What master plan? The disappearance of the hospital in Knin, what are we talking about? Fiscalisation, so Serbia has 10 years of fiscalisation, as a Balkan state, for 10 years Serbia has introduced fiscalisation, legalisation 0 kuna, Serbia, the Balkan country of Southeast Europe. Lawyers contribute to the fiscalization of 8%, Mr. Linic knows, and there's more than 25 and 40 percent in the grocery store, right, Mr. Linic? So, what's going on? They're still hiding from the fiscalization of some, some hiding from the fiscalization. You know, when, God forbid, you experience any car accident, so when you make a deal with a lawyer's tariff, he tells you what we get at the insurance house, 15 or 20% is mine. It doesn't go into fiscalization. Mr. Linic, remember what I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75045	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club, Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75046	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, Deputy Minister, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HNS Club, we maintain the adoption of these amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia and financial plans outside the budget for 2014. Of course, in the debates so far, much has been said about this rebalancing and much wider which is not in the context of rebalancing, but as it is common in us in the Croatian Parliament, sometimes it is excess, and sometimes it is good. What is certain is that this rebalancing is a single macroeconomic framework and financial stability, it is also clearly indicated by the Council's fiscal commission that this was done in a way to ensure the application of the provisional fiscal rule, and also not because the European Council tells us so, on the European Commission's proposal, but because we have accepted an EU operating contract which is essentially the basis and which says that if we enter into the excessive deficit procedure, we must reduce that deficit, in this particular case, it is about 3% of the share in GDP, i.e. public debt, below 60%. So this is something that we and the signatories are both responsible for other European countries, especially for the Republic of Croatia. So no one in particular imposes anything on us because there is a Republic of Croatia sitting in the European Council. So this budget rebalancing all that satisfies, what in the second segment opens up a question of certain risks because risks always exist, is it a risk that a new rebalancing will be needed? Whether economic environment, better said economic growth and what is crucial and employment will be realised, that there will be recovery in this year, what everyone would like and what not only would like and want, but what this government and everything does in the context of its ability to realize, because there is a key and we realize this rebalancing, however, that it is in the income side of a much better quality so that the spending party can participate even more, here we have a reduction in the role of investment in fixed capital that it can be strengthened on the side of the state. Can this rebalancing create one framework for consumer optimism? It's hard to argue with. But from realisation and what we expect from economic growth, yes. He points to that segment. We also have two different opinions, and often in the Croatian Parliament we talk about various economic analysts in Croatia who make their views and about economic fiscal policy, monetary policy different attitudes as a profession, and we also have the IMF and we have the European Commission, or the European Council, who have different attitudes in accessing certain guidelines, proposals that were related to budget rebalancing for 2014. And we see that we have a different approach here than two different institutions. We are still missing the European Central Bank, so the European Troika would be on different sides in Europe. That is why, by considering this budget not only as a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, it is essentially the government's budget that each ministry has been participating in most of its expenditures in its plans to achieve the results that they have planned for both the Government and economic policy and all other policies. Surely there is one open question, we also know that in the HNS club and I believe everyone here in the Croatian Parliament, that the application of the rules of fiscal responsibility within the ministries is extremely important in the implementation of this budget and certainly that there are certain risks, if we do not implement reforms in the healthcare sector and if new budget deficits are opened on that item, and in any case we should take full account of this segment and make it clear because we are aware of it. But this budget rebalance also realistically points to macroeconomic projections and clearly points to the plans of all ministries to realise their projects. And when spoken and mentioned that certain incentives have been reduced for certain industries, then it should also be made clear that other specific items within the ministries have been opened in particular to show what is related to guarantees for the industry that can be provided to industries which are very well known and that entrepreneurship is poorly capitalised, with these guarantees they can also reach far greater resources than those directly driven by HBOR and commercial banks. But this is also how the project as well as the project towards EU funds turns the entire policy of this government. No more subsidies and no more incentives to cover debts, to close their eyes to failures or how some like to say politically similar than all of them and in public companies, and all those who expect the budget to help them will be part of the system of assistance but in a way that presents clear projects that can achieve and realise additional value on the market. Therefore, seemingly reduced funds in the Ministry of Economy are actually greater and stronger leverage through the guarantee fund that through the HBOR and commercial banks they can obtain more funds than they were basically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75047	Thank you, too. We have one replica. Clear Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75048	My dear colleague, you spoke of the budget very calmly. You are the chairman of the Committee on Finance of the Croatian Parliament, you have not called on a single thematic session to discuss fiscal matters on finances and on possible rebalancing and budgets. And what my colleague Pupovac was saying was that we didn't have a chance at any other forum to talk about any budget rebalancing. Why didn't you do it? Is that not possible, it should be among other things your duty. We all talked here in the Croatian Parliament that it would be good if this was more about committees, that there was more discussion on committees, that a particularly elected fiscal council was formed, correct me if I misrepresented myself, so we could discuss this additionally according to certain items. What do we want with it, and what are we afraid of? As for consumer optimism, what are you guys talking about? Consumer optimism at a time when we systematically reduce and reduce salaries for employees in the country, when all other rights are abolished, when negotiations on the Labour Act are opened, on which consumer optimism are you talking? So you're also falling in revenue as Mr. Schucker said in the first part of the year, and you're talking about consumer optimism.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75049	Thank you. My colleague Gjurkovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75050	Dear colleague, therefore, the Committee on Fiscal Policy has started working in the Croatian Parliament, I have introduced on behalf of the Committee and given three of the most important points where the Committee on Fiscal Policy has clearly said that this is a more realistic budget, that is, this rebalancing than it was originally for 2014 and that this rebalancing is absolutely expected to meet fiscal rules. Therefore, the fiscal commission gave a positive assessment of this rebalancing from its point of view. As regards the Committee on Budgets and Finance, it otherwise held 65 sessions of the Committee, where, in addition to the budget and the rebalancing of course, there is a very open debate on everything, including budget and rebalancing, but also all laws that are well related to realisation and budget and economic growth. When we speak to consumer optimism, it is one of the economic categories that creates, not philosophical, but an economic category that is essentially created by an atmosphere in society. It includes, of course, state finances and the stability of the financial system and investment and state investment and private investment. It also includes the growth of the number of tourists by 11%, i.e. overnight stays by 7% in 2 months. It also includes one positive step of 5.4% that we have a report on the growth of industrial production in Croatia. It suggests that consumer optimism also indicates that leaving the crisis is visible. All of these are elements that create consumer optimism and what this rebalance gives as its message is that it is stable, that this is a Croatian state with a stable budget and a stable financial system.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75051	Thank you. Minister Slavko Linic picked up the words. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75052	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, at the end of the debate, I would like to thank the representatives' clubs for these discussions, but most of the clubs have had caution, I would say a great risk of the proposed rebalancing and the assessment of whether it is real or not. So if I don't go with the political quantifications of rebalancing, I'm going to stick to the clear figures that maybe some of you will still be the reason to reduce that part of the mistrust and that you might consider that there are realities in the proposed budget. 2011 107 billion kuna income, 2012 with a reduction in health contribution to parafiscal liabilities -2% economic growth, 109.8 increase in income. The result of the more responsible tax policy, the change we had in the series, therefore there were no negative effects with any measure that went to strengthen the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. And also, government reforms are the reason that from 121.4 billion to 119.8 billion. So in 2012, the government cut expenditures and raised revenues independently of the support to the Croatian economy. And then it comes in 2013, again we have 1 billion revenue less, instead of 109.8 we have 108.9. Why do we have less income? Well, because on a two-month change in VAT policy, given our entry into the European Union, we lost 1.6 billion kuna. Therefore, the entry into the European Union cost us 1.6 billion kuna less VAT and we also lost 600 million in customs. Therefore, 2 billion and 400 revenues were lost by entering the European Union, but we also grow from 119.8 to 125 billion on the spending side. Five billion of us are growing. Now let's see what costs us the European Union, so we come up with the following data, that we have withdrawn from the European Union a billion and 680 million which through the funds and through the single aid of the European Union. At the same time, using these funds, which ensures our own participation and by providing for the budget, we paid 3 billion HRK 200 million. Therefore, it was this new blow that increased our expenditure and 3 billion health recoverys. So the revenue side reduced our VAT and customs decline, and the expenditure side contributed to the budget, participation for projects and rehabilitation of health care. In 2014, when we look at the difference between entering the European Union, we will withdraw 4 billion and 300, the European Union will cost us 8 billion and 100. 4 billion brings us greater expenditure from the European Union and there is then a very simple response, only economic growth, only economic growth can alleviate what is called membership in the European Union, a battle for economic growth. And that's why the government cut contributions, cut parafiscal charges, did reprogrammes, worked on pre-fashion laws. Everything needs to be done to train the economy, to be competitive and to resolve this additional cost with greater exports.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75053	Thank you, Minister. We have three replicas. First responder is Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75054	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I don't know if you've lost it, but I just have to make it right, it's not that Croatia lost a billion and 600 of VAT, it's that there's been a delay in payment. Therefore, the way VAT is calculated after entering the European Union has changed and some payments are no longer paid on imports but when goods are sold. But, Mr. Minister, I remember exactly the debate, you weren't here, but were your associates, when we warned that this change would cost not that Croatia would lose but would simply be charged in the second calendar year, so there was a delay in paying certain taxes. What was previously between 1.1 and 31.12.2002 reduced by a billion and 600, but it will be paid in some period next year. So that's it. However, it is also very interesting what you said about the EU funds of 8 billion,...to explain what it is. However, the key thing is and it may not be good that you say in such a way that the European Union is a cost because some of your colleagues have not done their job. To withdraw funds from the European Union then we no longer need to spend these funds from our own budget and therefore reduces the expenditure side, but unfortunately we have to pay our part in the EU and that part is our cost. But the question arises what we have done to eliminate certain costs from our budget and to pay them from EU funds. So that's the key question, and we just need to talk about it because if we don't talk about it in this House of Commons openly, then unfortunately we're going to be dealing with these problems all these coming years. But I'm saying that's the problem of all the participants in the process, all those who have the right to withdraw money from EU funds, but then you won't get any more money from the budget than you do to make a program and withdraw money from the European Union, and not to say easy we won't lose a cent, we've broken software or something else. So there's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75055	It's time, fellow Shuker. We got it. Replication response, Minister Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75056	Thank you. In 2013, a fellow Shuker lost 1.6 billion kunas in 2013, so in that year, a completely different accounting for that year was lost, and it will never be timed, it will just move from year to year, but it has lost a billion and 600 forever due to a different calculation. But what I'm trying to say is that all of the government's measures relating to tax policy did not have negative effects on budget deficits but rather different accounts and different participations. What I also want to say is, when we talk about the European Union, 4 billion and 300 are withdrawn in this year, and at the same time the costs will be 4 billion. What does that mean? It withdraws even more than it costs because everything you withdraw is also an expense to you, but unfortunately you have to pay additionally and participate in the budget and that is 3 billion and 600. So what's the problem? All the funds that are withdrawn if they go through the state budget are expenditure. The main thing is, we need to understand the participation in the budget is participation in the common market. We must aim to ensure that the Croatian economy does not depend on the domestic market and demand on the domestic market. The Croatian economy depends on the European market and this is our role to have access to the European market and that the Croatian economy could create economic growth and only economic growth could justify this investment in the European Union. We haven't been able to do that in these two years, I hope we will.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75057	Thank you, Minister. Clear Mesic replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75058	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Minister, this last sentence of yours in two years that we haven't succeeded seems objective to me. I totally agree with this when you say only economic growth can stimulate it, but Mr. Minister, I'm telling you because you're a government official here as a proposing, you can't see it from this budget. You can't see from this budget rebalancing because when I speak in an individual debate, then I'll tell you on a micro-second of the budget where and why you can't see it. At the same time as you were talking about public companies planning to withdraw the profits of public companies, to inform you, Mr. Minister, 31.11. The head director of HRT said that in plus 95 million kuna with 31.11. It's a little less at the end of the year. I call upon you to monitor whether you fulfil your obligations within 30 days or if this is specifically agreed by contract for a maximum of 60 days and if it is really in the plus. Because if it's really in the plus then there's a possibility that a part of those tax backlogs that you know very well and in some ways might be spent as well... which we think is wrong because it would be better for them to let them invest. But the main thing is the supervision we call you on because if the Director-General does not fulfil his obligations within 30 days and does not fulfil his share of the obligations he has signed with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, then he should be punished by Mr. Minister. And as far as economic growth is concerned, you are quite right, we need economic growth to help us, but where Mr. Minister, by which measures you will further assist and further encourage in this rebalancing process, and to be allowed by the rules of the European Commission and the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75059	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75060	Well, economic growth is primarily a matter of consolidation of the private sector, discharging this private sector of excessive debt, and that is what the government is trying to do with its programme. And on the other hand, the battle for the competitiveness of the economy to try to find space on the European market when we talk about public enterprises, about companies owned by the Republic of Croatia, end the procedures of complete restructuring, make them more competitive and all possible means to push towards investment and investment. For two years, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not withdrawn funds from these state-owned companies but has left them as a battery in these companies. At the same time, with these state-owned companies, we also made it possible for reinvested profits not to pay 22% of the profit tax. Therefore, they too were given the opportunity. This year we rated that we could pull up to 50% of their... As far as payment control is concerned, it was carried out on 31.10. And we have all the information on every state-owned company, every ministry and many private companies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We will repeat these supervisions by 31.3. this year and then we will also go to certain sanctions provided for by the Financial Business Act. Therefore, the Ministry of Finance does its part of the business under the Financial Business Act and does. Now that we're talking about where this optimism is, we're trying to say that all the government measures we've been taking haven't had a negative impact on income, and they haven't had any expense. Both have shown great responsibility in fiscal consolidation. The only question remains whether we will be able to make Croatia's economy competitive in the European market by the end. Only then can we say that we did it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75061	Thank you, Minister. And the last replica Branko Vuksic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75062	Dear Minister Linic, you have mostly answered what I wanted to ask you through these two replicas. However, what you are saying is about the competitiveness of the economy, whether the Croatian economy is competitive in the European market. That's the basic question. And it's not just a question for the government, it's a question for those who manage the economy, it's a question for the economics, for the capitalists. I'm one of the few people who talks right here in the Parliament, and I agree with you in part that they haven't done their part of the job, often haven't done their part of the job. That's where we agree. Economic growth can't just be made by the government, it can't be done by the government alone. And now it's a matter of more European funds. Some of the countries have drawn far more from European funds than they have been paying. It seems to me, and you correct me that Croatia has not prepared enough for that precisely to call it an undertaking to take far more than it invests in the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75063	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75064	So let's go back to the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. The competitiveness of the Croatian economy we have tried to do as far as possible through the discharge of certain tax duties. The biggest problem of the Croatian economy is over-indebtedness, simply huge loans that harm them because they do not pay them off in time and have regular and tight interest rates. And the non-resolvement of the huge supplies they created during the crisis period and the supplies they didn't get rid of. It is the biggest problem of how to make this economy competitive. It is not only the Government of the Republic of Croatia's position, it is your position, both the IMF and the European Commission. The battle to create stronger their competitive power is how to detach them from that burden, to detach them. Without it, the economy is unable to do anything. Why? Because the capital in these companies has become too small, too large and these obligations have completely destroyed the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. When we talk about companies where we are, most of them are the problem of unimplemented structural changes that should have made these companies stronger, more competitive and the possibility of strengthening investment activity in the Croatian market. And in that part of the government is trying to do everything in a series of measures to succeed and strengthen that competitiveness. When we talk about withdrawing from European funds, I agree. The moment we have stronger investments in the water industry, and here first of all I mean irrigation, canals and other, waterways, when we talk about Croatian railways, and especially about infrastructure, when we talk about some bridges, then we will be far more efficient in retreating. Unfortunately, designing, papers and permits are a problem why you can't do it faster.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75065	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Nadica Jelash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75066	Thank you, dear Vice President, dear Minister, Deputy Assistants, Honorable colleagues and colleagues. Croatia has been in recession for six years. The truth is, the country went down economically, and before it hit, I'm going to put it like that in the dream of the global crisis, but the problem is that when that happened then, or the current government, then the government actually ignored it. And while other countries adapted their national economies to these new crisis conditions, even through the excessive deficit procedure. So that's not what Croatia's found itself in now, our specificity. So other countries have been through it. The Croatian government acted like an orchestra on Titanic. She said the crisis would not touch Croatia, she was concerned only about her narrow party interests, and the most important interest was to remain in power at all costs. And that price is now being paid by Croatian citizens and will be paid for one more time, because unfortunately the previous government has done nothing to change what is most important. So to change the economic structure because in this case we would have a more competitive economy today, what the minister was just talking about. So, we'd have an economy that would be more capable of a competition match, and I'm saying that an uncompetitive Croatian economy is actually the source of all problems, of course with negative repercussions to the state budget. And that is why the current government has, in fact, focused most of its measures on strengthening the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. Over the past five years, the real cumulative decline in gross domestic product has been 12%. At the same time, the expenditure side of the budget almost did not adapt to the fact at all. Expensive expenditure was spent, the budget deficit was compensated by borrowing by increasing the budget deficit in parallel to public debt. And it was just a question of when that blow-up balloon was about to burst. And he broke, just last year, 2013. So the truth about the huge budget deficit and also the huge public debt last year was literally bare to the bone. It's always like that, you don't get to know for so long as it's the same cashier. When the cashier changes, then the truth comes out. 2013 is therefore a year of truth, a year of awareness. We entered the EU and EUROSTAT confirmed that in previous years the budget deficit was actually far higher than it was shown, for example 2011. The HDZ government showed only 14 billion budget deficits, and it was actually 10 billion kuna higher, amounting to 24 billion kuna. It was like a colleague Shuker likes to say historically the highest deficit and stood at 7% of GDP. And all of this came at the expense of this government, of course with the need for rehabilitation and health care and the need to resuscitate smugglers and the need to restructure public enterprises and, of course, a number of other obligations. And to the opposition references that we should have known that we would have additional expenditure on membership fees in the EU and other obligations should actually be said: yes, we knew about these additional commitments, but the problem is that there is no money for their settlement. So there's no money because there's no economic growth. On the spending side, we have billions of new commitments, and there is no income on the income side because we have an economic downturn. If we had an economic growth of just one percentage point, it would be over 3 billion fresh money. So, about as much as we need in this year to pay the EU membership fee. And now we're in excessive deficit procedures. And that means that we have been ordered by the European Commission to put state finances in order over the next three years. This means that the government budget deficit must be reduced below 3% of the domestic gross product, and public debt must be reduced below 60% of the domestic gross product. The most difficult part of this request must be implemented in this current year. Thus, this year the deficit must be reduced by 7.7 billion kuna, and by 3.5 billion the deficit must be reduced in 2015 and 2016. What the coalition government proposes with this rebalancing is, in fact, the most demanding fiscal consolidation so far, with the focus of this consolidation on the revenue side. When fiscal consolidation is said to be concentrated on the income side, then it is generally thought that it will mean a bigger tax press, however, this time it is not the case. So, in this rebalancing, there is no additional burden on citizens, there is no additional cutting of consumption because we know very well that this would further deepen the recession. The main leverages applied by the Government in order to increase the revenue side of the budget are the withdrawal of money from the 2nd pension column in the 1st pillar. So, it's about the accumulated money that the state actually paid itself for its employees with their benefits, so for the military and the police, and these funds were supposed to be paid in the first pension fund anyway, because from the 1st pension fund and paid out to those employees. This is how 2.8 billion will withdraw in 2014 and 2.2 billion more of the accumulated money in 2015. So it's either one time or I'll be quite precise twice because it's going to happen in two years, so twice the state budget increase, but every following year it's going to be transferred from the second pillar to the first pillar and the current payments of about 400 million kuna. Furthermore, the contribution to health insurance returns to 15%, the tax on gambling gains is expanded, concession fees are increased, and the withdrawal of profits achieved in state-owned enterprises is increased. Something more than it was years ago. All of these measures should result in an increase in the revenue side of the budget by 5.8 billion kuna, with the need to bear in mind that these revenues will decrease at the same time by around 1.8 billion kuna as a reduction will occur initially, i.e. a reduction of the initially projected rate of economic growth to 0.2%. On the expenditure side of the budget, a reduction of 2.9 billion kuna is proposed, with expenditure savings being achieved primarily by reducing subsidies to agriculture, shipbuilding, HBOR, entrepreneurship and also by reducing debt salaries, by abolishing the addition to the loyalty of the service, by further rationalisation of business, by reducing material expenditure and by delaying, by prolonging some and by giving up some projects. However, it should be borne in mind that when it comes to agriculture, this reduction will be compensated by the withdrawal of funds from European funds. However, in the case of support for entrepreneurship or for jobless rebalancing measures, the originally planned appropriations in the 2014 budget are reduced. Therefore, this does not in any way mean that these funds will be less than those achieved in 2013 for the same purposes. So, when the planned savings are listed in the state expenditures aimed at reducing the budget deficit, which is our absolute goal, it is important to stress one thing, so these measures will not touch on the socially most sensitive groups of citizens. So, it won't cut pensions, it won't cut unemployment benefits, it won't cut maternity benefits, it won't cut the rights of defenders, and that's what proves that under these impossible recession conditions this government is actually socially sensitive.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75067	Thank you. Ante Babic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75068	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Jelash, we do not seem to have received the same materials related to this agenda point because you said that this government is doing everything and is working on it, to strengthen the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, so I understood it and I think I heard it well, so let's say the development and strengthening of the competitiveness of the processing industry -60 million kuna. By implementing measures to boost investment of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs -€26.5 million, strengthen the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises -114 million kuna, develop entrepreneurship infrastructure and business environment -7 million kuna, strengthen the competitiveness of the economy by encouraging investment and efficient use of EU funds -15 million kuna, support for projects to strengthen the Croatian economy -8 million kuna. I don't know if it serves to strengthen the competitiveness of the Croatian economy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75069	Thank you, too. Answer, here's my colleague, Jelesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75070	So a colleague like this, when I was talking about how this government has been focusing most of its measures over the past two years on strengthening the competitiveness of the economy, then I was thinking about measures like reducing the health insurance rate, contributions to health insurance from 15% to 13%, so this rebalance is going back to 15%, but the fact is that the economy has been given over 2 billion kuna, and it certainly has contributed to the economy's kind of breath, so it's helping itself. Furthermore, other measures were, therefore, the release of reinvested profits from profit taxes, there were different, reduction of various parafiscal duties etc., etc. And what you are now saying is that in this rebalancing, some of the items related to the development and promotion of entrepreneurship are shrinking, they decrease by rebalance compared to the initial values in the 2014 budget. This does not mean that they decrease compared to previous years, only decreases compared to those in the larger amount planned to achieve in 2014 but unfortunately because of the excessive deficit, we are not in a position to achieve them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75071	Thank you. Ivan Shuker replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75072	Thank you very much. Comrade Jelash, let me get this straight in 2011. Tell me, how much of those nine billion did you pay? Nor lipe, it's an accounting increase in deficits but if you want to compare the same level of income and expenditure then your deficit in 2013 is somewhere around 20 billion and 2011 is 15 billion. That's a fact, but you can also add to the deficit guarantees that HZ days over the past two years, and then you'll see which deficit you'll get. So let's try to talk about the same things and interpret them the same. It is also not one per cent of economic growth, an increase in revenue in the state budget of 3 billion. My colleague Jelash, only when you have an economic growth of 2.5.3% then a 1% increase in income in the state budget is a billion kuna. If you have an economic growth of 1% and he came to you after you had negative economic growth, then you have an increase on the revenue side of the budget of just a few hundred million kunas. So say 1% of economic growth brings 3 billion revenues to the state budget I just don't think it's wise to say it, don't take offense to these words smart, but it's no longer saying it in such a way as to have economic growth 7.8% in order to possibly see it around 2.5 billion after one process of growth of this in the state budget. The second thing is definitely done exclusively at the expense of the tax burden on citizens and the economy of the Republic of Croatia. He can't say that an increase in the health contribution if at one point there was a discharge, if it was a discharge then when you catch him now it's a burden, so we can't use different terminology for the exact same thing just because one was in a negative and the other was in a positive. The other thing is, it's not true that the defenders have nothing reduced, the defenders have reduced pensions for you to know how much?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75073	Thank you. Here's your answer, pal Jelish.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75074	Dear fellow Shuker, you've really told me a lot of things now, so I'm going to try to answer at least some of your objections. So, we didn't say that the deficit of the state budget in 20111 was 24 billion but that's what EUROSTAT said, so if you don't believe us, I think that EUROSTATU must be trusted. As far as economic growth is concerned, this is more than one picturesque story that aims to point out, or to point out, how much economic growth we have, so everything depends on it, of course today we would not be talking about a deficit like this if we hadn't been in recession for 6 years but had at least had minimal growth. You finally said yourself that the growth position of 0.2% as much as you and I are aware that this is at the level of statistical error, so it would be very good if we stayed in that zone, positive economic growth, and not that that's what's going on. As for the reduction of the health contribution, I must remind you that in a number of your discussions you used to say, you used to say that it was actually a crazy waste of money, that it was distributed to a huge number, and now you confirm it to a huge number of entrepreneurs, and that this individual entrepreneur doesn't really mean anything, almost nothing in terms of reducing gross wage costs, so if it wasn't any reduction then this return from 13 to 15% won't be even if I don't like to talk like that, I don't like to say that, but I only answer in your way, so then this return won't be an extra cost.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75075	Thank you. Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75076	Thank you very much. My colleague Jelash, you've said a lot in this commendable tract of yours, so I'd like to start in order. Namely, no one will be directly as you said social groups were affected but you already know that even before this rebalancing that we are salaries in health care, in school and less that defenders are quiet, so they are silently reducing their income, that the economy as Mr. Babic said a billion and a half kuna have reduced the flow of money to the economy, and through the economy and citizens, they are indirectly affected, such as the concession. So look, the concessions for gravel and sand are going on application to the state, and the state is... In the county that also has part of the concessions, my county ship-to-business, never a single kuna, writes 0 kuna of concession or the state has not processed, has not verified or assessed that it has 0 benefits from concessionaires. These things are interesting and where they're actually hiding and who's protecting some people who are in concessions, and they show they don't have any income. Furthermore, on agriculture and the reduction of these for the agriculture of funds and the processing industry of the amount of HRK 60 million. You say that, will be replaced by EU funds, and we're talking about these funds, you say 3 billion if we increase 1% of GDP, that's about 3 billion kuna, it's not true. Our participation in the EU, in membership for this year, is full, it is 600m euros, 4.5 billion kuna. So 1.5% if we increased GDP, then we would have these 4.5 billion kunas for EU membership, for EU membership. Things aren't exactly what you said, so here's why I'm saying this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75077	Thank you. Answer, colleague Jelesh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75078	Dear counterpart Grubisic, so when it comes to concessions, I do not know the details of what happened in your county, but I believe, I do believe, I am sure that in fact the state has in many ways and not only the state but the local community has lost money. He was actually leaking through his fingers and he didn't react, because it obviously suited someone that way. And as for our participation, or our EU membership, that you are right, it is as much as you said, but it should be kept in mind that with this membership that we have to pay, we are obliged to participate, so give our national contribution to all those funds that will be withdrawn from the European Funds through the projects, so just when we talk about it, we are talking about these new, huge commitments to heavy billions of kunas, and we don't really have cover for them on the revenue side. So that's why this rebalancing. Among other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75079	Dear colleague of the Vesna Railways, debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75080	Dear President of the Parliament, dear ministers with deputies, colleagues and colleagues. Here, we have a full day of budget rebalancing sent to us by the coalition government for 2014, of course with projections in 2015 and '16, and it has been done according to, among other things, the recommendations and guidelines of the EU Council to address the budget deficit as quickly as possible. Croatia is not an exception as an EU member, nor is it the only one who has entered the excessive deficit procedure. There is or has been more than half of the EU member states in the excessive deficit procedure. The reforms carried out by the government were not enough for faster economic growth and development in Croatia, but the economic situation in the EU is also not much better, nor in our environment. One of the major or main causes of the country's deficit growth is the allocation of high funds to pay interest, while on the other hand, insufficient growth in the economy creates a lack of budget revenues. The crisis has been going on since 2008 and has brought us into a difficult financial situation. The Ministry of Finance implements financial discipline, but discipline is not enough to get out of the crisis and reduce deficits. Certain benefits did not give entrepreneurs and the economy the expected results. Reforms in the public administration need to be implemented, pay expenditure rationalised, projects from EU funds that promote economic growth should be financed. With recommendations from the EU Council to reduce the excessive deficit, the government's budget deficit proposes an increase of revenue from €113.1 billion to €117.1 billion while expenditures are slightly increasing from € 130.5 billion to € 130.7 billion. The government budget deficit is projected at 13.6 billion kuna or 4.1% of GDP. Outside budget users will also record less than 0.4% of the budget and the general government's deficit will be at 4.5% of GDP level. Public debt in 2014 will be 69.5% of GDP, but with GDP growth said in 2014 is projected by 0.2%. The measures in 2014 are proposed, measures for 2014 propose a total savings of 7.7 billion kuna on the income and expenditure side, and for a future 2 years, 3.5 billion kuna. The increase on the revenue side in 2014 plans by 3.980 billion kuna and by the measures paid back for health insurance on gross earnings from 13% to 15, enlargements... to win from gambling, the return of pension insurance contributions to persons with a benefited internship from the second to the first pillar, an increase in concession fees and a greater withdrawal of profits from state-owned enterprises. Outside budget users such as Croatian Waters and Croatian Roads will reduce the deficit by 280 million kuna. As for the expenditure, they increase from € 130.5 billion to €13.7 billion, which is € 103.3 million, but the total expenditures are actually reduced by €146.7 million. but it is important to note that this is a social rebalancing because there is no reduction in pensions, no reduction in social benefits. Also, staff expenditures are reduced by € 108.2 million, addition to the loyalty of the service is lifted 4, 8 and 10% and the salaries of government officials are reduced by 6%. Material expenditures are reduced, and services for 751.7 million kuna, financial expenditures for 380.2 million kuna, on behalf of interest on loans will be reduced, so less funds for lending and inflows will be needed than transfers from the second to the first pillar of around 2.8 billion kuna. Subsidies are reduced by 615.5 million kuna, which will be reduced by the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance under the priority funding programme and by HBOR loans. What's important to say in the end is that there are still some shifts, positive trends for January, which compared to 2013 tell us about GDP growth by 2% related to the growth of our industrial production but also to the arrival of an increased number of tourists in our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75081	Thank you very much. We have one replica, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75082	Although your debate looks like nadice jelash's colleagues, I have some things to say because you led me to it. In fact, you said the reform the government carried out wasn't enough. And what reforms has the government implemented so far? I don't know. So, you said further that the economy didn't give the expected results, so it's clear that, despite that 2% of the health contributions didn't yield results, but you were on to something that's important to the whole problem, but you didn't further develop it, and that's the administration of the state, the local one that's huge. 450 municipalities, 120 cities, 20 counties and the state with its huge apparatus, therefore, a apparatus that is huge and inefficient. Furthermore, if you think it's a reform, for example. Printing new driving licences where the state will take from citizens 200 million kuna because 200 kuna is a new driver's license, although for example from Serbia and Bosnia are driving to Germany with old driver's licenses. We must press under the regulation of our government of new driving licences that are in the EU standards. Or is the tax on foreign pensions that our people who have come to live here receive in Croatia is that reform? Is that tax bite a severe reform of this government she's been through? I don't see it. Aid to the county road administrations was aid 120 million kunas, abolished, no more ZUCs of any kunas, according to this budget rebalancing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75083	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of the Vesna Railway.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75084	Well, Your Honor, you may have misunderstood me, but I must remind you that I am sure that everything the government has done so far has produced results but not enough for the major changes that need to take place in the future. I also have to say that by pre-departure agreements, you can say that it is not a reform, but it is something new that has been made and that certain jobs have been preserved as you have heard yourself today that the EU supports it and that they may accept it in a slightly different form of pre-demand settlement, then a series of measures that have been implemented that are no longer needed to highlight, because as you said you will not support this rebalancing, and then you obviously do not see certain reforms that have happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75085	We're continuing the debate. A respected colleague, Ingrid Antičević-Marinovic, is on her way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75086	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, Deputy Minister, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I think not only today but also all this time that you few in Croatia envy being in your position today at today's moment. Especially then you, Mr. Minister, who here today defends this budget rebalancing when you're with us here in the benches, then speaking and warning in opposition, aware that it won't last long, aware that it's also going to be a turning point of power and how hard it's going to be. So, as a responsible opposition, we warned that some things would stop, stop, see that it would be difficult, that it would be almost impossible. And today we are all together especially you who suggest this, where the greatest responsibility is to do whatever is possible and if possible in an almost impossible situation. Those who criticise today who I have already said more than once today, and today I will repeat, who are mocking all of Croatia, this difficult situation, which has broken out their teeth in Croatia, today they are mocking her that she is a cartilage. Those whose discussions in the criticism of this budget rebalancing remind and could somehow be put under one common denominator under the common title, the book of Nora Ephron, "I don't remember anything and other thinking." So ours is here not to seek excuses but to explain the situation. And in that explanation, we're not really looking for an excuse, but we have a duty to explain to the citizens what happened. On several occasions and in many situations, we did not do so because the speed and weight of the task and it was in some way an excuse or explanation, in many situations it seemed like aggravating the situation, and people resented it. People want the truth, and as my colleague Jelash said, this is one moment of truth and the sooner we face it, the sooner we drink those bitter pills, the easier it will be. No more, no more of those sweet sugars and the sweet candy they gave us. By 2008, we had already seen that the bauk inflation overcame Croatia, making fun of us here. And then the one they're running away from, their leader, then the prime minister, the party chief, came in and announced the crisis. We talked and then, we don't know which border crossing she entered, how she could have entered unauthorized because until then, no indication, the denial of any crisis was. The truth is that it's not a crisis and it's supposed to be fair, it's not just the work that's going on in front of the court, we know what the work was or is not the work of the former government at the time. No, it is also the result of such relations and the conduct of economic policy at the level of the entire European Union, which has led the southern countries to an excessive deficit, in a way not directly or indirectly forcing but making them attractive services and services, and a less attractive industry. However, a smaller problem would have been if that were all it was. We have also experienced here a handiwork about which this incursion into the budget in all ways of managing the state's assets as it was seized, then no wonder where we are right now. So those who held the bag or knocked or watched the kickings pull the money out, let go, gentlemen, be so kind as to allow those who are now in a position to try to get the land out of the pit you threw it into. So, as the minister in the opening statement, why the rebalance and why the rebalancing. I will begin by quoting some points and a summary of the results of a detailed review for Croatia by the European Commission. So the commission presented its third report on the warning mechanism in November 2013 with a detailed survey of 17 countries including Croatia. And I will repeat, all of what the European Commission says is more specifically, it means that the macroeconomic imbalances of Croatia accumulated in the stage of expansion by 2009, and since then Croatia has been stuck in a recession from which it has not recovered. So until 2009. And what do we have in 2008? So when the crisis is almost at its peak here is denied, taken for construction, you are known builders, HDZ was a well-known builder, so things that are not even needed then, which are built in the best times, which do not mean priorities for Croatia, which does not mean investing in structural reforms, but borrowing under very, very unfavourable interest. There are countless examples, the media are almost from the gold toilets to the individual shares talking about it. So as much as Croatia has been scratching in everyone, so not just this way, not just in a way that I will not repeat what the court is doing, it's just probably the tip of the ice santa. As it was managed by state property, something even a colleague of Grubisic spoke of, it was warned from the State's Attorney's Office through regular reports, only that went through the cracks. As the people's property pulls through, but it wasn't an accident, so it was a prepared ground, I'll do it again. Amendments to the Penal Code ended the crime of stealing natural goods and resources. It disappeared as a criminal offence for the payment of pension and health contributions, only taxes remained as a criminal offence, tax evasion. So what was the message, and that way they bought votes, you don't have to pay the worker, you don't have to pay him for retirement, so how many people passed out when they came before retirement, they weren't paid for 10 years, 15 years of contributions and stuff like that. Concessions as they were given, we couldn't find out who was winning concessions, under what conditions. How when certain shares were built, individuals who were so fortunate to win the contest, of course, from many subcontractors, dug stones, Croatian property, and then sold it to Croatia. And today, when we talk about this, when the great effort is withdrawn, and you see for yourself, then there's a great deal of dissatisfaction why there's no money for this, for that. That's what we should ask you. We have to pay off the big debts. When we talk about health reform, so this announcement, so I think the same way as very mild and cautiously could have done so much safer and with the full right of the minister, so the worst year she's been behind is over, that there will be even more difficult years, but that the signs are already being announced. So that is also what the European Commission is talking about, which even the minister did not mention. It says signs of a potential shift supporting positive influences since entering the European Union are seen. So, what's invested and what's expected, so also from the pharmaceutical industry, from the shipbuilding that is so far and in the past year we know and for what reason, it's the minister and the other speakers and warned. So, that precisely because of the restructuring process, contracts could not be concluded, and orders were, orders remained blank, contracts are being concluded today. And with great confidence we have the right to believe that this kind of rebalancing, and it's very difficult, I don't know who might better put it together in such a situation, give certain results. So you need not only to have understanding, but to have, you don't need to scare people don't talk Don't say what you're supposed to tell me. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75087	Thank you, too. Two replicas. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, the first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75088	Thank you very much. My colleague Ingrid, since you mentioned my name and said exactly what I said a long time ago that the crime of theft disappeared from criminal law, very interesting. It was good for someone. And yet you spoke so beautifully of all that, not mentioning names, nor calling it rudely in the way that someone here spoke, so there was a certain argument. But I would say that in this marking of the centennial of Matoša, you almost said in that style everything that has happened to Croatia in these 10, 15 years. Okay, Matosh without a mustache, but that's a beautiful thing to say. And when we talk about this budget, some things must say that you say that he, the rebalancing, is ideal and that you have nothing to object to. But there's that, I was already here talking. Later, you'll remember after a few months of what I said as well as this for stealing. For example, here is a decision to give consent to the changes and additions of the Croatian Roads Plan for 2014 and says that total revenues are billions and 817 million, and total expenditures are 3 billion and 400. So almost double the expenditure on income and it's legally introduced here into this document. It is clear that the payment of interest is 766 thousand and 500 kuna, but it is still interesting that it is over, that expenditures are almost twice the revenue mentioned here. Here's just one example, I won't be long because I don't have a lot of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75089	Second replica, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75090	Dear colleague Antičević Marinović, I must tell you that you spoke nicely of this cut-off of workers. But I'm asking you, maybe you know the answers, I don't know the answers. I was setting them up with Minister Linic, but he didn't answer me. It's estimated that about 70,000 workers are working, not getting paid, and that's a felony. How many people have been convicted of this crime, how many have been convicted and why the rule of law does not work because nothing has changed since those years you mentioned in what has to be said that the Social Democratic Government or part of the government is in power, one large part of the Social Democrats are how they love each other, although Mr Milanovic says he is not a Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75091	Replicate response, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75092	Well, I've talked about it, about these amendments to the Penal Code. Although I didn't mention it that way, but I'll answer us because it's basically true what you're saying when we've been making amendments to the Penal Code since 2002, then we've anticipated non-payment of wages as a criminal offense. Even this should not have been done in one regulated system because it was intended as a criminal offence of workers' rights. But then we saw that an employer who doesn't pay his salary and buys real estate and so he comes to the State's Attorney's office says I didn't deny him the right, but right now I don't have any money. So that's how we had to change the Penal Code so that there was a non-payment act that would be sanctioned as a felony. Of course the opposition didn't vote for such a law. But that's what the media were talking about back then. And then we had about 180 thousand unemployed. The very threat that this would be a criminal offence was ended in 2003. Then it was 75,000. When we took power again, 150,000. Now in two years when we were reintroduced, we were able to reintroduce that crime of 70,000. Of course there's still a lot of them, but I believe it's going to shrink or cancel.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75093	Dear Representative Jasen Mesic, debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75094	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with his associates, his esteemed colleagues and colleagues. On several occasions there are also Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Greek, and you said we must go to the budget for these and these reasons. It is that we knew this before, but with the resources left, we will try to enable and create a framework for private entrepreneurship, which through state-owned investments, which through investment by public companies ensures economic growth in order to create new jobs, a new cycle of consumption and employment with the help of EU funds. It's theoretically everything. We can totally agree with that. And then you take one little segment of the budget that some of us know well. Let's say you take a budget related to the Ministry of Culture. The cultural sector is achieving an average of over 4% of GDP in the EU, with 5% of employees crossing on average. So it's a very large activity. In publishing alone, Mr. Minister of Croatia employs nearly 12,000 people, almost 12,000. This is the ideal time for this cultural industry activity, as a new EU market opens up through very little incentives for translation to the entire sector. So, with very little resources. When you take the budget of the Ministry of Culture, then you see that the very items that can help economic development have been downloaded. Systemically, funds for the restoration of cultural heritage that must be invested and which spend specialized crafts and companies in the restoration of certain parts of cultural heritage and the processing of these cultural heritage monuments for new purposes are being downloaded. Systemically, funding for the completion of individual museums is being downloaded, which are in the interest of ending early in order to enrich the tourist offer as soon as possible, in order to make their own profit as soon as possible and, in part, to make their cold drive if it comes to national museums as little as possible. It's systematically coming off. Incentives in investment and production of audiovisual works are also removed. You know well that last year we made almost 80 million last year that foreign co-production houses spent in Croatia because they were doing TV or film shows here. You know very well that in Opatija a movie about Diana was made, not to mention what kind of promotion it had for Opatija, Rijeka and that end. Not to say what kind of promotion Borgia or Games of thrones for Dubrovnik etc. have. That's what Mr. Secretary takes off. Which means we're sending a message that we're not interested in, that's the 20% return to the 20% VAT that comes back after the movie is over, which returns to investors based on evidence that these funds have been spent in Croatia. There is an analysis by the Economic Institute that says that this kuna is being stimulated into Croatian society by 2.7 kuna. More than 200 small crafts and business entities related to audiovisual production have been opened. About promoting the country, about tourism promotion, I don't even want to say that's good. At the same time I'm telling you that over 11,000 people work in publishing at the same time, incentives are being taken off for publishing that is cramping in trouble. Instead of leaving them so that they can use enhanced translations that I have already mentioned to the market, and you are just talking about economic growth and export opportunities. Well, it's an export product. Children's picture books are an export product because you sell both authors and illustrators and graphic design with them and are very easy to translate and you open a huge market for Mr. Minister. With this you also preserve cultural identity and create new creative cultural industries and in some ways make profit and economic growth in this sector. And in the culture sector there are segments that can be self-sustainable. And look at Mr. Minister, which isn't shrinking in that same budget. Non-profit media, they're not touched by any lip. Their only goal is to be non-profit, and at the same time you create these items that create a new value. And you don't touch them in rebalancing. And proclaimed both you and the vice president of the government and the prime minister and colleagues and colleagues, and we all advocate some growth. Excuse me, but where's the logic? And who can defend and interpret that? Look further where it doesn't come off. In something called cultural promotion through the Foundation "Croatian House – Croatia House". Have any of my colleagues and colleagues or your colleagues tell me if you want a colleague and colleagues in the government any program that this foundation has made, any one of them, and tell me if this foundation has collected one single kuna from any other source than your budget. At the same time, international cultural co-operation is reduced. Because the "Cultura new – Croatia House" Foundation programs do not require a competition. And international cultural cooperation requires a competition. This decreases where the competition is needed and where the criteria are prescribed, and this is not touched by Mr. Minister. The "Culture New" Foundation, which receives Mr. Minister's money, is not fully touched more than all programmes of all archives in the Republic of Croatia. More than the total protection of all mobile monuments in the Republic of Croatia. Is there any analysis of how many jobs this opens? What cultural industry does that generate? How, if we take what you're saying, if we agree on it in principle, if we act on what Mr. Greek says as Deputy Prime Minister in charge of coordinating these resolutions, how can this go? Why shouldn't Croatia really go that way because we have both potential and capacity to develop cultural industries. And this is the right time. And if you look at the EU budget creative Europe in 2013-2020, it is one of the few items that is significantly increasing, where media and culture are fusiond, because the goal is precisely to make cultural industries more connected to the media so that they can make a marketing announcement because it is clear to everyone that such creative industries, the cultural industries do not have enough of that marketing potential to be able to break into the market. Why don't we go to the conclusion of these museums, if our goal is to act in a tourist offer as soon as possible, if our goal is to promote the Republic of Croatia as soon as possible, or that region, any Mr. Minister, and if our goal is to start achieving their own income as soon as possible? 30% of their expenses, 50% of their expenses, God forbid they can make their expenses come true. But that's what we do with the part where we have to give for the so-called cold drive we have so much less, we don't even take it off and keep those items going directly into consumption. How, in what way and that was the basis of what I asked you, if you're already going into rebalancing, if it's already like you're telling us how this is holding water? How and in any way explain to anyone that Croatia tends to like other European countries that have over 4% of GDP in culture and almost 5% of employees go that way because Mr. Minister doesn't go that way. You're a representative of the government here, and I'm telling you this because it's a situation, how and in what way you defend this, and every time you go round, you're going to go back to the same things, and you're not going to generate economic growth, and in this part, you could achieve a few hundred jobs with very small effects, with the redistribution of what you've downloaded, that you've downloaded in the right places and in the right places to help. Because the analysis is very simple. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75095	Thank you, Your Honor. Honorable representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75096	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Mesic, I agree with you that we have very much cultural potential and certainly that the cultural industries that can come from all of this can create their own incomes, and that is why money culture is needed. However, here you have referred questions to the Minister of Finance and I think all these questions should be referred to the resolution ministry when you look at which items have been downloaded. In addition, in order to justify or remove such items, we should have the budget for the past year, in order to see whether these funds are necessary or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75097	Replica response, respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75098	Ma, I agree, but Mr. Minister also said here that on behalf of the government he's a budget and he's simply the only target we have right now. I agree that the responsibility for this is agreed primarily by the Ministry of Commerce, and I have already lost my voice by saying in this House. So this really has nothing to do with any ideology and politicization. This is so simple to me, such an equation that I can't even understand from the position of political pragmatism why it's not going in that direction. It can only bear fruit, and we absolutely agree with what you've said. So I understand if you're going into rebalancing okay, but why cut those things that bring you extra value. It's quite simple, so we introduced these av incentives in this House, we all voted for them, so it's good for the budget, it's good for Croatia. Therefore, I see no reason why, where we achieved positive successes last year, last year, positive steps were achieved at the time of the term of office, they were recorded as production here in Croatia, profits are made. The country has been promoted, people are coming, Minister Maras has been walking on the tapes. I'm asking you well. So...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75099	Thank you very much. Another replica of respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75100	Dear counterpart Mesic, we still consider culture and art as mere consumption that no one uses. I mean, you should know those who decide on the budget, the distribution of funds that the third industry in Europe and America is the audiovisual industry, that's business. And we say, "Let those actors go, they're doing something, they're filming it, they're letting it go, that's our primitive logic." There is one project to create a film town in Velesaj, remember the Adriatic film, sometimes, as much as it was respectable, but it should be the same, they say it should be remembered, so the state should also have, and the Ministry of Culture should have for that hearing and encourage people, give, fight for it. It is true, Dubrovnik has been promoted, Opatija has been promoted, these cities have been promoted, but it is not even as important as that promotion. It can make a good living, earn money. We used to be in the region of the leading country. After that, you know very well that Brno, that Prague has taken over that primate, makes huge money from that industry. I think that just now, colleague Šimac-Bonacic confirmed what I was saying or earlier in the morning, I don't know when I was saying that all the ministers and the Prime Minister were supposed to be here because you said that you should give a reply to the Minister of Culture, that because the Minister of Culture could have made a different decision, let's just say that the non-profit media is shrinking and to get it. Your question in place was, just so I say, about HRT, HRT is jeopardizing the film industry in Croatia because HAVC does not allocate to the government the funds agreed on and that is what Mr. Radman should answer for, but Mr. Radman has open hands to break the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75101	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75102	My dear colleague, I don't really know what he would have answered because I think you've told this one exactly, so here's what I'm going to do, I'm going to refrain from responding to the line, since that's how it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75103	Finally a nice gesture. Dear Representative Josip Boric, debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75104	Thank you very much. Honorable President, Ministers with Associates. I know the current government came to power in a time that wasn't easy. But looking at this structure of the budget, I keep warning her. Let's look at all the activities, the more or less are all the same, so 90% are prescribed from 2011. Ten percent of us have new ones that have emerged amid new opportunities for EU funds, etc., some minor activities. It means that there was not too much will to change the structure of that budget at least in that part. I don't even know what to say that the government wants to hear or apply it at all because when I look at my discussions for the budget, for 2012 and the rebalancing of 2013 and then the rebalancing, I feel like we're going round and round and we're talking more or less of the same and the familiar things, and every day it's getting harder and worse. The government doesn't respond to opposition warnings, persists in our actions, and we're where we are now. What measures have been taken? 01.03.2012. raised VAT from 23 to 25, did not help. The zero VAT rate was abolished, and that didn't help either. They're taxing dividends, not that. There were excises, and there was nothing we could do about it. Currently, Croatia is second in the EU at the level of the overall VAT rate, and I think the third in between VAT rates. All the energy prices, gasoline, gas, electricity have also increased. We should not forget that when energy prices rise, they grow and cost of production, and consequently all the related products from transport to food. Intersteps were changing, so they rose, dropped, health contributions from 15 to 13 and returned to 15%. Let's not forget that it was the reason and explanation of the ruling that it was a compensatory measure to raise the VAT rate from 23% to 25%, so we reduced it to you and where are we today? So if it was a compensatory measure, let's be honest, let's keep it going and get the VAT back to 23%, so we can make a little bit of a mistake. I don't want to believe it, but it turns out that way. What did these measures bring? GDP down two years and six quarters in a row. What does Mr. Greek say about the fall in GDP? He says expected for 2012, but that he expects the change in the second half of 2013. Then when, what does it say on 2013? What happened at the end of 2012 was a 2.2% drop now is 1.2%, and last year what was minus 1.9% is now minus 1%. That trend is easy, but you can see the recovery. What do you even add to those statements? They speak for themselves, and I know it's hard to defend budgets and budget proposals every two months in some short periods of time without changing anything. All these methods of attempt and error are paid by the people. What did we get with those wrong measures? The health contribution brought down the health standard, resulting in fewer beds, hospital mergers, new debts, now returned to 15%. What did the Greek say about that? It would be a permanent measure to close the hole in the health budget that has been objectively opened. The minister is telling us differently today. So we don't have compliance at the top of the government, which means something because he admits that the measure has opened up debts in health care. VAT on tourism services reduced from 25% to 10%, only to hosts, and then raised all 3% points to 13%, meaning both accommodation services and catering services. It's a bad thing, that's how you took away the tourism of 400 million kunas. We're becoming uncompetitive, we're going to reduce the level of investment. One maybe measure that went this way on the side, but very important, the water use fee raised from 1.35 to 2.80. It only took away 200 million kunas from the camps. He says we have to follow up on the investments with something. So let's go to the tourist sector right now. There is simply no stability of the system, and then there is no investment, and those who have been somewhat successful have failed. What do we have to do with this budget proposal anyway? Do we have any reason to be optimistic? Let's look at the incomes and expenditures for the past three years. We heard today the first news, that the revenues in 2013 were at 108.9 billion, which is 100 million less than 2012. And today we argue that in this year we will grow by a variety of measures that are proposed by a total of 7 billion compared to 2013. Can you believe that? I can't believe it when two years showed that we've only managed to grow 2 billion, in all order, with all new measures. Can we get away with a story like that? Obviously, we can't, we have to dance as the EU says, so we have to agree. What's changed in two months since the last budget? Milanovic's SDP reached Racanov by the number of unemployed. The number of blocked citizens has increased by 15 thousand, and the amount of debt has increased by 800 million. The biggest ever blocked, over 23 billion kunas, are citizens only. And we've been announced three investments a third year in a row. Zagreb coast, Plomin and LNG. Here, we all believe it'll start this year. I'd like it to start, but it won't start. Unfortunately, we can't say things that won't last more than a few months. And because of this, I cannot support this budget because it does not respect regional development either, we have reduced the item there to help and prepare EU projects, and we have left an item for privatisation, a failure to privatise the HPB Bank, to consultants 8 million kuna. I don't understand that. And now in the end, I don't have much time, and I have to say something about privatising the tourism sector. I come from the island of Rab, this government announced the sale of Imperial in a way, the first step of a statement of interest to invest through a letter of intent, the second step calling for tenders. We're all surprised at Rab, we expected that after centuries of fighting for that company, for the last 20 years we've resisted everyone who wanted that company, who came out of bankruptcy that today we have to fight to survive on that island. The Imperial is the main tourist society on the island, the number of shares for sale 318 thousand average price of 25 euros, for 7.5 million euros for 60 million kuna sold? Hotels Imperial, Karolina, Padova and Eva with 650 beds, two tourist resorts with more than 700 accommodation units San Marino and Suha Punta, 10 villas are sold, two autocamps with 5 thousand accommodation units are sold all at locations along the sea with total surface facilities 100 thousand square meters. Area of land below the facilities that are used 25 hectares. He says here, in the end, this Investment and Competitiveness Agency will choose the best bidder based on the criteria set by the tender. Who's willing to risk fate here writes 260 employees, over 70 of those who are in sublets, over 2,000 people who depend on that main company? Knowing of Halud's, knowing of the Sun's Hvar, knowing of all the failed privatisations of tourist houses in the Adriatic. Someone's playing with people's fates. For 60 million kunas, how the price is now or how today the towers are shaving for 100 million kunas or 15 million euros. Is it worth something when the company is stable, shows net profit, the state doesn't need to pay for it, pays everyone what needs to be paid and to local self-governments and the state, returns orderly loans and all these hotels and all this is restored to level 3 or 4 stars in the past 8 years? So the finished facility someone will get, and only the Hotel Padova is worth 100 million kuna bookkeeping. For the sale of one hotel, the man solved everything. When I fire 150 more of what our new investors always do, I get a profit of over 20 million kuna a year, and I'm back in 3 or 4 years. Ministers, I'm saying that because you were also a member of a task force that accepted at one point and the ESOP as a work-stocking programme. And I think it would be the correct thing to tell people the right information first because everyone's hiding it. It happens on the side like that. The sale of three of the best-quality tourism companies working with profits has been announced. It's the Imperial Hotel, Platt and Maestral, and all the losers are still on the back of the state. They're not sold. I can't understand that. If that's part of this budget, I'm also against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75105	Thank you very much. Let's go to the replicas. The first replica of the respected representative Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75106	Thank you very much, President. I rarely compliment any HDZ debate, so I won't do it now. In fact, you said that this government is working on the principle of trial and error, of course it's not true, it's far from true. Whoever works and makes mistakes, you'll agree with that. In your debate, and I listened carefully to you, you really did not make any concrete suggestions. Why did I say what I said at the beginning? Because I have to commend my colleague Mesic, I haven't replicated him, but he really did say one fact. One kuna invested in audiovisually returns three kunas to the state, that's a fact and it needs to be signed. What you're saying, I really don't know what you're saying. Could you mention that in January of this year industrial production increased by 5.4% compared to the previous month after 9 months where it did not happen, that 2.2% increased industrial production compared to January last year, it is statistics it is inexorable. You often call for statistics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75107	Reply to the replica, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75108	My colleague Tomic, you said I didn't set an example. I did not give an example of attempts and mistakes, a health contribution, and I explained it nicely, even quoting all the statements. So we tried 13%, and then we brought it back to 15% because Greek said it would be a permanent measure to close a hole in a health budget that was objectively opened. The Minister of Finance tells us something else, which is why I say these statements at the top, so we know who's in charge and who's vice president for the economy, etc. And if he says one thing, and the minister says the other, then we don't have the right information. Who do you trust? I have today cited some other measures that the prime minister has annulled, may have been good, but let's coordinate more at that top of the government who can do what and who can't do what. Because this is how we talk, and we can switch, look at each other, and look at each other over the target, but it's generally not good for all of us together. And as for these increases of some who appeared as new statistics, that vice president himself said that we should be careful, to see what that would mean. So let's be careful to see. But given the figures shown here, if we're in two years and everything that's been going on, we've grown two billion and we can't move to three, I'm afraid we're going to grow seven in this one. And if it's any different, I'll admit it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75109	Dear Representative Jasen Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75110	My dear colleague, I am pleased that you mentioned this situation with the Imperial and on Rab what is happening and you mentioned in some way you gave a review of everything that is going on and what we really want to contribute to this budget rebalancing. In some ways you pointed out that both workers and people who created this company could manage and operate well with profits, pay the state their obligations, etc. But I'm going to go back to culture again, and you didn't get it because you talked more about tourism. Let's just say the manifestations aren't shrinking in the culture budget. One event that is not particularly reducing in the culture budget is, for example, the Festival in Leipzig where Croatia sends in its cost and promotes individual literary authors. Believe it or not, this year the assistant minister of culture as one of the representative writers of the Republic of Croatia sent himself to promote enough his work which he managed to do while he was an assistant minister. And then in the selection of commissions which decides which Croatian writers will be presented outside as our export product in publishing presents amongst themselves. Fantastic cultural policy, in line with the government's guidelines, the Ministry of Finance and the coordination of economic resources, and not to mention society. A colleague, therefore, has individual examples of success and places of optimism, consumer optimism as a colleague Srdjan says in these segments where someone sends himself to a state official and also a writer. That's an honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75111	It's best known. Josip Boric is a representative, a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75112	Thank you. Well, it bothers me, fellow Mesic, because we all live with these people every week and watch and their fear is something that's justified. We're afraid that from a peaceful environment that functions normally, we're going to grow into some kind of environment of various expectations, unrest, and then everyone's unhappy and there's no need. Why, who publishes such documents, do this on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Look at the first sentence, the Republic of Croatia via the State Property Management Agency, AUDIO, they do not know that this has changed, that there is a State Office for Management of DUDI. Then they write down that the Agency does not assume responsibility or obligations for information on such a document. What kind of access is that to investors? Those who want to sell them to someone's future, we've been saving it for 100 years, 20 years not only for SDPs and HDZ governments, and now that you've managed to save some guy from Zagreb, we're going to sell it for, here's the nominal value of stock 25 euros, 300,000, 7.5 million euros. Here's because we agree that this size of area only in the buildings of 100,000 square meters, only in the land of 25 hectares, is worth 60 million kuna in the best locations. And we ignore small shareholders who have 44% and offer them a story all the time so we can also sell the stockholders, but we're going to sell it. So why, why bring unrest to this area and the Primorje-Gorski County when there is the interest of workers to manage it as the workers of Jadranka Lošinj, as did the workers of the Hotel Baška, etc. And they did, but let them do something. It's an unreasonable move for me, and it doesn't do anybody any good.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75113	Honorable representative Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75114	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I simply cannot believe that this kind of thing happens during the SDP government because today we have heard a completely different story, and it is particularly unclear to me that such a document of the government can be published by one institution that finally published by the Register of State Property. It's just fantastic, and the only thing you haven't told me in this whole story is whether or not a picture of who's going to buy it all together, then the story would be complete, and what you're saying about these wrong woods between the government members, so here's the example today is the best. Maras says we'll cancel the chamber contribution, and Minister Vrdoljak says he doesn't do it by his ministry, and then someone else will answer and it will match. Well, we have as many noises and signals as we want, which is why our budget rebalance is the same as it is because I keep saying that all the tax games and games that have been going on haven't played the key game of whoever should have covered it all together because one coalition partner was against one law. Therefore, I repeat, my colleague, Boric, is really not clear to me that during the SDP, one such competition could be discussed. If it were HDZ time and a man would say come on, that's right, but during SDP, something like this would happen, so when I get back to some canceled competitions of Sunny Hvar and some other stuff, I just can't believe it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75115	Replica response, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75116	Comrade Shuker, believe it or not, but it's out there and it's true, and now who's going to pull out the thick end, I'm afraid they're going to pull out those employees, and then all of the citizens, and that we're all going together from a normal, peaceful environment that's been developing nicely, for the past 15 years we've reached certain levels, we're growing the number of residents, people are going to come to that island, the Rape Fair is, say, a cultural event where we don't know more or less who of the current politicians and the Parliament hasn't been there because it's really one example of the firm. Do you believe that these 100,000 squares of space, meaning buildings and 250 000 m2 of land by the sea, is worth 60 million kuna? Who believes that? Can we sell it for 60 million kuna? I hear all sorts of stories are colluding why, because we have such a system of saying now we're collecting offers neatly, okay, but why nobody in local self-government wants to explain what this is about, why secrecy, why these papers that give up responsibility for information. Why? Because we've been saying 20 years, you've managed to save yourself, and now it's obvious someone with someone else's capital, you go to the bank, you take 15 million euros, and your whole island is, everyone's in your disposition. What will we testify to, and we have experience, bad experiences, and also in our Primorje-Gorski County, Haludovo. I don't want Halud on the island of Rab, I don't want to, and no need, the state owns it, and there's no burden with that company. That's where people work neatly, get paid, and here's an average of 898 euros. Is that a little bit? Great. 260 permanent employees, several hundred seasonal workers, 70 related buildings in rental i.e. It's the 70th turn. So what, for 60 million kunas in the state budget? I don't agree with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75117	Thank you very much. For the next 10 minutes, we are listening to the respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75118	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Honorable Ministers and Associates. I'll try to say something to challenge as few replicas as possible. Mr. Minister, if the situation had been better in Croatia, if it had been growth, had been a reduction in unemployment, I am convinced that at least 6-7 ministers would have been convinced that there would be at least six, seven ministers who would have credited themselves for it. They would likely be joined by governors and vice governors that they have successfully led by their vision and politics to such a good condition. At least you'd have the credit. But when the situation is bad, when the economic downturn, an increase in unemployment is 41,000 compared to today's time two years ago. The responsibility for this, unfortunately, falls upon only you, for some are successfully avoiding responsibility and only, even, deal with prophecy, announce but always back. They tell history in fact. And today I mentioned in the replica that we have a lot of high positions that have no social benefits especially in the area of the economy. The state budget is a fiscal instrument that should mirror the situation, the real situation, but also the main state objectives. It is an instrument of economic policy directly affecting the economic activity of one country, economic growth, employment, balance of payments, investment, savings, inflation, everything. Is the budgets of recent years and this rebalancing, i.e. the fifth rebalancing in these two years whether it reflects the real state and whether it mirrored the most important goals of the Republic of Croatia. Turns out it wasn't results. Is if the results are bad and the budget is bad. If the results are bad politics can't be good. In this, only one institution insists on doing great, and the results are getting worse, and this is the institution that sets its own wages and credits itself with the fees for working on a so-called advice that does not exist on its own salary. If there was a need for rebalancing and there were no extraordinary circumstances, then the budget was wrong. It means that it was unrealistic, but it was changing rapidly. In 2012, 13th and 14th economic growth and rebalancing were planned and not achieved in any period. On the basis of which economic growth was planned and on which this rebalance plans economic growth. Which is what encourages the promoter to see economic growth, no one happier to be him. But all macroeconomic indicators indicate he's not going to be there. We have a downfall all five years, here's six years and no doubt a fall is always a fall. But it's not the same to fall into a well if it's dark or if we look into the sky or close our eyes. In Croatia it is not dark, it is a little dark but the problems are still being made clear and there is no need to fall into the well. We can only fall into a well if we look into the sky or if we close our eyes to problems. The expenditures are a problem, they don't shrink. Incomes are a problem, and they do not increase from economic activity. Why am I pointing out these problems? Each country has the most fundamental elements. He's got a flag, he's got a coat of arms, he's got a currency, he's got a balance of payments, he's got a budget. When any of these elements are compromised, the state is at risk. When any of these elements disappears, the state disappears. The state budget has been seriously compromised for years. If the state budget is seriously compromised, Croatia is seriously at risk. Therefore, we need to approach the problems more subtlely, pay more attention to expenditures. The easiest way to make a decision is to cut wages linearly. But what's that gonna do? The reduction in wages in this situation will lead to a reduction in consumption, and we certainly don't need that. That's what's causing us further damage. But we close our eyes a little on some expenditures that are harmful even in a situation like this for a country that can be smaller and necessary to be smaller. For example, how much expenditure there is on these so-called so-called. agencies? There are those who need them, who need them, who bring good things to the state. But there are unnecessary ones. There are so many that they waste needlessly on official travel, on official cars, on intellectual services and only intellectual services. Just consultants and intellectual services. So let's put an end to that kind of depletion of the state budget, and no matter who's going to raise their voice. This budget and all the things we've burdened so far. But we are, and I'm not accusing anyone, I'm just trying to make a point. We are a unique example in the world that concessions generally generate revenue to the state budget. In our case, concessions are costing the state budget. And it doesn't matter now who created it, but we can't look at it like that and not change it. Is it possible, as far as possible? Well, we can't at least make new mistakes. We only have three concessions in this year's year to pay 400 million kuna, almost half a billion fees. Here is one agency, the Competition Protection Agency, which should be financed from its activities as a regulatory body by its activities. It shouldn't be on the state budget. But if it won't work, like it doesn't work, then it needs to be financed. And as soon as a state-owned company appears, it immediately finds that this state-owned company is disrupting and abusing its position on the market. But when it's telecommunications companies, then AZTN shuts up, when some other AZTN industries are silent. Let it see little that in Serbia, the same companies that do not even receive fines for minor violations receive millions of fines in Croatia. There's revenue to the state budget. The consultants, just consultants. Every agency, every consulting company. Which irony, parody, actually, is that the State Real estate management office that the state has is paying an extra rent to someone else. Unsustainable condition. Change the CNB Act we will support it here, so that all the profits of the CNB must be paid into the state budget. What good is she gonna keep 50% or 60%? And I won't look back, my colleague Schucker said while they were in power they didn't even want to pay off the profits in the state budget. It was revenge on the government. They're playing with the government, but they have no right to play with the state. We pass the law, change that law to pay the profits in the state budget. What's going on with the Tourist Board? Well, the lady who got pregnant saved her life, changed her because she didn't spend it. I wish I could, and if I asked a question of certain ministries and the Tourist Board, they'd also come up with savings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75119	Thank you very much. There's no replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75120	Great! Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75121	Honorable representative Damir Cain. He's not there, he's losing his right to discuss this matter further. Honorable representative Ante Babic, a ten-minute debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75122	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with his deputy and his assistants, colleagues and colleagues. There's really a lot of things being said today and repeating it wouldn't be good. I've been tickled by this debate of yours, my colleague Maric. I was looking at something, I don't even know how much the agency actually has in the Republic of Croatia, and there would be a lot to save there you're right. Well, here's what might be good for the minister to hear it here, so there might be something to do. In these two years of the term of office of this government this is 5 budget rebalances and however we discuss either side of the position or opposition it is clear that the budget is a basic document and that it is actually an instrument that, as counterpart Maric says, mirrored the economic goals of the Republic of Croatia. No one can actually kill that. I also note that those who are doing budget rebalancing must respect the policy of the ruling, or at least they should, which is why they came to power. With this in mind, the Minister of Finance is certainly the most difficult and to make certain moves and meet all the budget users so reducing the deficit is certainly a difficult mission and we who are in the units of local self-government when we find ourselves in a similar situation are not as easy for us as it is for you, Mr. Minister. But budget expenditures, the way they could be reduced today, we've been listening to it, and it's not bad again, are really structural reforms. They are difficult to do in half of the mandate, but something could be done and much could be done tonight from the debate of counterpart Maric. However, the revenue side cannot be ignored or budget revenues are filled with economic activity. And that's what's important. Why am I saying that? That's why these budget rebalances have been going on over the past two years. At the very beginning of the government, I remember the inaugural speech of Prime Minister Milanovic who came here to the Croatian Parliament and by the programme 21 Kukuriku coalition I know that there were no world-class and ideological topics and I believed it would go in the right direction. However, coming to power was actually only about those ideological and world-famous topics, and at least they talked about certain economic measures that would trigger greater consumption and certainly have a better economic situation in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, I'm not going to repeat these ideological and secular topics here so they don't replicate and waste their time in a sense that's certainly not my goal. If we had spent that time looking for certain measures for the economy, for entrepreneurs who were willing to invest, it would have been easier for us. Almost a year ago, I remember that well, we talked about certain measures of tax policy or rather the tax press that choked the businessmen, which choked the craftsmen. In fact, the tax press did not want investors to invest both domestic and foreign companies had already withdrawn, or rather saved rather than actually invest in the Republic of Croatia under these circumstances of legal instability or tax press. And finally, under such conditions, why would someone invest in the Republic of Croatia? The question of all the issues is how to attract new investments in order to fill budget revenues with economic activities and if this does not happen soon we will have to expect a new budget rebalance and that should not be doubted. I'm going back to the subject of budget rebalancing mainly for certain economic measures, so I'm going to repeat them one more time, which is actually not good what happened to this budget rebalance. To develop and strengthen the competitiveness of the processing industry, we have reduced the budget by 60 million kuna. The implementation of the measures to encourage investment of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and craftsmen has also reduced €26 million. We have reduced the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises by 114 million kunas, the development of entrepreneurship infrastructure and the business environment has reduced 7 million kunas. Strengthening the competitiveness of the economy by encouraging investment and using EU funds effectively has reduced 15 million kuna and will be very difficult to support and prepare projects to strengthen the Croatian economy almost 9 million kuna. What will be the damage this rebalancing will do to local self-government units and about planning the execution of funds for the salaries of officials who units of local self-government have taken over from the state are working on works of issuing works related to construction. The truth is, these are the resources of the state budget but they are granted to units of local and regional self-government. What are they going to do at this point because these funds were planned in their budgets? The proposal for a state budget for 2014 has been properly planned, however, now with this rebalancing they are reductions of 12 million kuna. Today, there has been a lot of talk about EU funds, and I would agree with Minister Linic, it is true that these billions and 800 million kuna go to the expense side of the state budget. However, these 3.5 billion kunas that could have been withdrawn and they certainly do not go to the revenue side of the RS budget, but they would have been indirectly withdrawn through units of local self-government and other users would have created a larger economic activity and thus a higher revenue for the state budget, so indirectly, this would have been also revenue for the state budget. During this government, the Republic of Croatia left more than 30,000 young people. However, you in the state office for Croats outside Croatia have reduced the funds by 2.8 million kuna. Well, maybe even though I don't like it but ironically at the very end, you know when you cut those funds to the state office for Croats outside Croatia and the people who left Croatia maybe we should have left those funds in that position and at least for what they couldn't use in the Republic of Croatia, through furniture, through employment, at least to take advantage of it abroad. I think as much as that support to the Kukuriku Government, the Kukuriku coalition is quite slow, that certain practical ignorance has proved to have been shown, operationally it has been very badly done, and all of this has actually led to a situation for this fifth budget rebalance in these two years. And in the end, when a country in two years has five budget rebalances, it certainly sends a signal to those most optimistic that they must imagine the politics of this government. And that certainly doesn't give us hope that we'll get better and that as soon as possible we have to prepare for the next budget rebalance that you wouldn't like to see happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75123	Thank you, too, dear colleagues. We have a replica of the respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75124	Well, esteemed colleague, I barely found a chance to give you a replica because you're really good and eloquent and clear, you've particularly pointed out this problem of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, especially you've made it a good point. But you asked one question, is it ignorance, or is it that there is no systematic desire? Here I motivate and support colleagues and colleagues Vuksic and colleagues Tomic, if you really do not know what we were saying about the incentives here in the area of activity, when we see that fellow Tomic knows very clearly. And when a colleague knows that someone systematically mines the budget and measures that can stimulate economic growth. You've expressed your suspicion that there may be something not to know, that someone's mistaken, that someone doesn't have time because he's promoting his book in Leipzig, so he doesn't get to work on the budget rebalancing. Maybe that's the problem, maybe someone's dealing with that kind of thing, or they don't want a respected colleague, or it doesn't matter to anyone, or someone who doesn't really care, because then they can't, you know, get those funds into the drive and work on visual activity, so they can't possibly present their book to that cost, or I don't know what, so I guess there's no such interest in it, is that what you've been asking yourself? You're looking at it too well-intentioned, from that angle you see it as respected colleagues because you're such a well-intentioned man and then you think everyone's like that around you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75125	The silence is a sign of approval. Let's move on to the debate. Dear Representative Ivo Jelusic, ten minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75126	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister and Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. Time's gone, and I hope I don't use all my ten minutes. At least that's what I'd like. When we always talk about rebalancing, especially us who are now in the position of the ruling and rule them, we always have the discomfort of having to defend ourselves, as if the rebalance itself is something bad, in itself as soon as it's brought, as if it's some sort of correctional. However, if we look honestly and honestly in the last few years we've never been without rebalancing, there used to be more of them, except in 2011, when there wasn't one, but when the HDZ government deliberately didn't want to do it, it would have been in the election year doing rebalancing, but they were doing re-purposes within the government's decisions. So the rebalancing has become something normal, and I suggest we talk about it as something normal. The more we expected this rebalancing, the more it was announced. We knew we were going to enter the excessive deficit procedure, and when we saw certain gauges where we had to move, here's the rebalance. And the gauges in which we have to move and seek, which is to come to the so-called for the next three years. ...the terms, which means that our public debt is below 60% and the deficit below 3%. This year we're doing, the procedure, so one step at a time, getting closer to it. So the planned deficit was 17.5 billion this year, which is somewhere around 5.2% of GDP, we're reducing it now to 13.6 billion, so by 3.9 billion or by a percentage to 4.1. A significant decrease, could it be more? About that then, we heard a lot of debates, but that could easily, and it wouldn't, it sure as hell... We all remember or should at least remember the first year of this government, in 2012, when we reduced the deficit to 10 billion, from the HDZ 14.5, 15 billion, so we reduced by 4.5.5 billion and it was a great success, and we didn't want it, and even our political opponents had to admit it to us. Now it turns out that this 13.6 billion is a lot more than that, going up. Well, the question is, is it exactly, it's nominal, but it really isn't. When we look at the difference between 2012 and 2014, the difference is that we are now in the EU and that our membership on the EU's contribution that we have to make from the budget, 3.5, 3.6 billion, when we refuse from these 13.6, we come to 10 billion, therefore, that we do not have a contribution to the EU this year, we would not be in these still good, acceptable and all of these 10 billion deficits that we managed to realise in 2012. And even last year, we also wouldn't have a much greater deficit than it was, we'd have it back somewhere at the level of 10 billion, and yet there was no contribution to the EU, and if we hadn't had a health recovery problem left for us, the previous government, the HDZ government. So, something that's... something that wasn't spending that year. Now, could we have increased our revenue? Hard not to raise taxes because, as you noticed, if you noticed, well-intentioned ones could have been, that no tax was raised, except for the gambling tax. And I think that's what we can agree on, though, well, it's a good thing it's seen as a problem, and it's a good thing that it's started and that the government has seen this problem, to get rid of it. Because why would someone's income, who works all month long and earns 3, 6 or 12 thousand kuna, pay on that salary,... income, 12, 25 or 40% tax, and someone who just gets out of gambling wouldn't. And that's what we're additional, that's the only extra tax and I'd say absolutely justified. Could we have increased, therefore, by increasing the rate, increasing the procedure, and I think not, because if anything this government has done in these two and a half years, it's done a huge order and finally the tax begins to pay all those who need it. So there's never been so much cry that it's a tax press, and it's not a tax press, it's an order, so it's done, there's no more privileged, there's no more people who can be, and they don't pay taxes, it's tolerated. So, in this sense, the revenue side that could be made, of course, is always the question of whether all the necessary reforms have been made, whether different legal solutions that were needed for GDP to be greater, in order for the economy to be stronger, in order to have more employees? But we haven't heard from God in these two years, neither here in the assembly nor in the public serious remarks, and what were we supposed to do that we didn't? All of these measures, you wouldn't be counting them now, but those that were in that direction have given certain results, if they hadn't been in a worse situation today, if we hadn't abolished the tax on reinvested profits, surely that even less had been reinvested profits, even less would have been employed, the worse the situation would have been, but we weren't incomes, we weren't in the budget. Of course, the question arises, so that someone doesn't think when I said that the EU has negatively reflected on the budget, is that, on the budget, the EU's entry was negatively reflected, we have to make that clear and loud. So we have a membership fee that we have to get out of the budget, so we don't get anything from the EU into the budget, but we lose it indirectly, no more customs, no more customs revenues, and our economic activity probably fell in countries... where we lost certain privileges, under quotes, etc. But in the long run, surely we expect the EU to make its contribution to our development, eventually ours is waiting for the next seven years, in the financial framework of 11.6 billion euros that we can withdraw for different projects, either capital, infrastructure or economic, only the question is whether we want to know. Therefore, we will certainly have, therefore, no revenue in the budget, but it will come into the infrastructure, in the blood stream of economic Croatia, sure that it will produce adequate results. So, could it still be cut? That's what some of them were talking about tonight. Of course, the question is always how much, counterpart Maric, whether to cut salaries in the public sector and pensions for almost half the budget not to add up almost half the budget now. Of course, the only question you can cut there is how much you're destroying consumption, how much you're reducing the purchasing power of the population and how it's going to affect GDP. Therefore, this budget is certainly not ideal and this rebalancing, but within the framework of the possible realistically possible solution to keep consumption within the limits as much as possible, and on the other hand not to choke the economy and its development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75127	Thank you, too. Dear colleague Branka Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75128	Thank you very much. The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Dear Ministers, I don't think there's anyone who envys you in the position that you are in, and all of us who have experience in budgeting, proposing and defending know how difficult this is today. In fact, providing the kuna more on the income side, i.e. deprive someone of the kuna on the expenditure, requires a lot of effort, and there is no item or group that gets in the pocket with that kuna less on the expenditure side that will not rise and will not react. So I can't believe you just came here to present a budget like this with some items, ask us to raise our hand when I'm here to read for example. For the Ministry of Social Care's salary administration, you suggest 45% more funding, for the economy administration more accurate salary contributions 113% higher, other unremarked expenditures also in the economy administration 233% higher. The agency for a small economy with this rebalance gets 68% higher, administrations and salaries for this same agency 8 million and 650 thousand kuna more. Today we could read that for example. Director of the Agency for Agriculture and Fisheries and Rural Development together with four colleagues travels to Portugal, this will cost our citizens 75 thousand kuna, the topic is fishing, and nobody in the sector is going to go. Namely, the same agency recently acquired 9 top TVs worth 121 thousand kuna. This is where you presented us and you also asked us to raise our hands for it. I am convinced that you do not need and do not have a TV, I am not sure how much you arrive at your home in your house, and this means you have proposed to us and this House has raised its hand so that they can allow themselves such things. At the same time, for subsidies for farmers and crafts companies, we reduce that amount by 72%. One amount and one item that is equally surprising in the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Fisheries and Rural Development, we increase costs to people outside of employment by 800%. I noticed the biggest increase indexes on the operating transport program's salaries, priority 3 we have an increase of 1278%, which means 12 times. We have an even bigger increase in the salary of the Regional Competitiveness Operational Programme by 2188% or 21 times. After all this, you present this to us and expect our support. I'm not convinced that you're convinced that this is the right thing to do at this time. On the other hand, we have the preparation of a project documentation for EU pre-accession funds down 33%, further preparation and implementation of EU projects in regional development down 23%, the Adriatic pollution protection project reduces by 7 million and 700 thousand kuna, as well as the development of public sewage and water and sea protection systems by 101 million. Most of all, I'd say, if not the most expensive in the tourism ministry, the Project Preparation Program for Structural Funds, you've reduced it by 99.9%, and you've wiped it out nicely, so don't let it be any more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75129	Thank you, too, dear colleague. Dear colleague Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75130	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister with the deputy, colleagues and colleagues. The budget or budget rebalancing is the main policy guidelines of society, we all know that these are basically some kind of postulates, and then if this is the case, I from this budget from these amounts that are according to the specific positions that I will analyse which are so defined, I don't see that people who have been particularly affected and suffering today, today 2014 suffer the consequences of the war that this position will be resolved or that we will execute what we have said we will do. I know that Mr. Finance is not the best address for what I'm about to say, and I know that if he could and if he had the space for a much better quality and otherwise arranged, and I think it might have been better and useful not to say the word more appropriate, that there were some resolution ministers here and that all of our messages and our visions of budget rebalancing had been heard because they were actually the ones who I'm guessing had their resorbing money to you, so you packed them up just as you packed them up with due respect to all the assumptions that you were saying at the outset. Namely, what am I saying? We are in the budget when we adopted the 2014 budget with three very important amendments for us because these amendments would actually solve the position from which some existential needs of a particular category of people who are in the status of returnees and war victims would then be met. So we're not working, I'm not talking about the broader aspect of this budget right now, I'm talking about this particular category. In fact, we asked the first amendment to project the state office we formed in the 5th month of last year, so exactly a year ago, and we were supposed to be dealing with reconstruction and housing, and then we projected it when we set up certain costs for its work, so we said that we needed to provide additional resources. These were some 85, 86 million kunas, as some predecessors have already mentioned. That's when we said there was no money in the budget, that they would be rebalanced in 2014. We also asked for another reduction in the budget, so we asked 50 million kuna for the office to finance so that today's budget rebalancing would come to a situation if the office had received only 13.5 million kuna. Of these 13.5 million 8 million will probably be the price of cold drive so that this office won't actually have too much maneuver space to do what it's basically founded for. I must say here that it is obvious that the Office for Housing within its financial capacities has also allocated 17 million kuna to the foreign component, which is a participation in the foreign component so that we can withdraw 75 million foreign donations. So from these capacities they did it. What am I saying? So we are fully aware of the situation in which the budget is located, so we do not live outside of it and we accept that the crisis is and we say that if we were to add another 10 million to what we see here today in the budget rebalancing then this state office could do some work by the end of 2014. So we're not asking for 50 or anything but for this position that is now, which covers only the cold drive of the state office, if they added that amount then they would be functioning by 2014. The second thing we asked for in the budget two months ago was so-called. APN, Agency for Legal Traffic and Intermediation where we said that 10 million were planned for the purchase of apartments to former residents too little and that only 10 apartments would be able to buy with that figure, or 20 apartments, and the target size by the end of the year was about 100 apartments. We are aware, again, of the situation in budget rebalancing but we are arguing with an additional 10 million resources we could buy some more, solve 50 more apartments and then probably meet the largest part of the APN plan for 2014. Here I have to say that there was a good will of the Ministry of Construction to transfer from the position of encouraged housing to a certain part of the apartments that were built, and for which there is no interest in being kind of transferred to the APN and to settle this part of the former tenant rights holders. And it's not good if there's this intention and there's this possibility that because of certain accounting barriers, that's what the obstacle does. And the third thing that we insisted on and that's very important, which is to resuscitate the power grid for 200 households. She was then asked for 35 million kuna. We see that we haven't made a move, we see that we're not here, that there's no obvious model to provide 30 million kuna to get those 200 households in some way to allow them to live decently. I must say there are places, like 16 households in Barilovici, 17 in Slunj, 13 households in Lower Lapc, Pakrac... 10 households, Karina, etc., so these are people, these are not individual cases, these are all villages, I could list them here. And the whole thing, I repeat again, costs 30 million. I think there's a possibility, in the end there's also a company called HEP that has an enormous budget at the end of the year and that it should be a real thing and I don't see any reason not to do it. The next thing I'd like to say, you've been saying, the key question in all of this is our cost of joining the European Union and the question is what are the effects of joining the European Union. You mentioned the amount of our 8 billion that we have now, which we have given through membership these two years. So there are high expectations from the European Union funds and it is logical if we have given so much to expect something to be withdrawn. You said a billion and we'll make it out of the money. But what is it? We have to do some things we haven't done before, so we haven't come up with a regional development strategy. In order to adopt strategies, we need to pass the Regional Development Act, we have not adopted it either, and when we do so, we need to get an accreditation of the European Union that would approve the model and methodology of EU funds management. So the road is long and if so, if we didn't do all this then I doubt it would be time for us to prepare all these administrative preparations and state capacities by the end of 2014 so that we could withdraw an amount that is expected to at least be equivalent to what we have invested and that would be kind of host behavior. I'll just say that the fact that the data is speaking, if we're going to spend 450 million money from European funds, we need to have 900 million euros worth of prepared projects already negotiated or implemented. The project can be negotiated for 3-6 months, and implementation of the complexness of the project can take a year and more days. Therefore, taking into account all of this in 2014, we do not have a great chance of realising some of these European Union funds. I also fully agree with my predecessors, with counterpart Maric, who warned about the agency's work. If it's being analyzed here, we can see that some agencies are just their existence and some of their cold drives, the cost is twenty million kuna. In certain agencies, we can even identify costs for services of 5 million kuna, etc. etc. That no, you can talk here, in any case, about colleges or high schools that we know are advocating certain funds, we see here that they are on a pretty burden of society, they have a huge representation that appears in the media, and they are here on the burden of society. So we think that within this rebalance of the budget that you set out how you could set it. So that's how you made it, there's some possibility that we could do these three things that we're apostropheing today for the second time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75131	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Domagoj Ivan Milosevic. He's not there, he's losing his right. Dear fellow MP Tomislav Ivić, he's gone. He's losing his right. Dear fellow MP Ante Jerolimov, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75132	Thank you, Mr. President. Here is a colleague and colleagues, when presenting the 2014 Budget, whose rebalancing we are discussing all day today, his proposed Finance Minister Slavko Linic said this is about the struggle for survival that I have already said today. So today, about four months later, we can really figure out that this fight is over with defeat. First Plan 21 failed, and now the budget has fallen. But it wasn't that long ago, so in November 2013, when we from HDZ and other colleagues from the opposition and most financial and economic experts and analysts warned that budget projections were unrealistic and pre-optimistic. Of course, what were the answers and the proponents' reaction that this was a sustainable, real budget, made us laugh here and called for some lack of optimism. Every once in a while, it's the same story. We HDZ warn of unsustainableness, and as villains we announce rebalancing, and the minister denies all this and refuses, and time shows that unfortunately we were right. Unfortunately, because no one who cares about the state is in the interest and does not cheer up all these negative record figures of the Croatian economy, and today we have heard them many times. Well, given this late hour and time, I'm gonna leave out that part. I would rather look back at some minor but concrete repercusions stemmed from this Budget Rebalancing Proposal, which in my opinion will bring more damage than the benefits of the budget itself and all of our citizens. Since I come from the island and have a special sensitivity to this problem, the issue of public transport subsidies in line coastal transport has remained the same this year, but compared to 2008, it has decreased by about 80 million kuna, and this has had a significant impact on the quality and standard of life of islanders, and two very specific examples I will tell you that one of these has accumulated the price of ferry tickets due to the continued reduction of support each year, and the other has reduced the intensity and number of lines. The first victim if they can thus express these government savings on line coastal maritime transport is the fast shipping line Pula – Union – Susak – Mali Losinj – Ilovik – Silba and Zadar. In fact, just the other day, the director of the agency confirmed that the line would no longer co-finance what it meant to stop sailing. And now imagine how much one Pula, one Zadar, and all those numerous islands that that line was going to lose a tourist, and that is how much money. On this seemingly small example, there was a major blow not only to Istria, Zadar and the islands, and in a maritime sense Istria remained cut off from the rest of Dalmatia and vice versa. I will not talk about reducing the resources of Croatian roads from 9.3 million kuna for the reconstruction of roads on islands, from 20 million kuna for construction works in the area of reconstruction and development of water supply, although ladies and gentlemen of course you know that water supply is a burning problem for our islands and I wonder if the savings of several million kunas are worth the damage to Croatian tourism and whether this same money, even more, would be poured back into the state budget. When I talk about getting my money back into the state budget, then I have to touch on the problems that many of my predecessors have been talking about, and it's about keeping public companies. The projections say it's somewhere at half a billion kuna. And what does that mean in life? I'll tell you on one example the less investment of a substation in the municipality of Poličnik. It is an extremely important project for the whole of Zadar County, which could benefit the Croatian economy as a whole, because in that part of my county there is one of the most successful business areas in Dalmatia, the business zone Grabin. At the same time, the municipality of Poličnik is developing another business zone of Murvica south, while the town of Zadar is working on the mega zone of Crno. All three business zones, as unlikely as it sounds in the 21st century, are on hold for lack of electricity. In fact, due to the high interest of investors, therefore those who fill the budget do not have enough capacity to connect new electricity consumers. It is similar with other projects that require new amounts of electricity, from projects in Benkovec to the new port in Gazenica. In order to make it even more absurd, the location permit for the construction of 110 kw of the trafo station has been completed, the municipality donated the territory to HEP but HEP because of these government measures there is no means for such an investment. And that investment would double the money invested through investment, drive-in, job creation. And instead of the wind in the back, the government decided to cut its own branch. And 100 investors are put on hold and they are waiting for that unfortunate electrical energy. I may speak a little bit of this locally in this presentation, but these examples are not just problems for Zadar County, and I wanted to point out these examples to one perilous economic policy that has led to all of these negative figures that we have heard today. But also the fact that the European Commission has introduced us into the excessive deficit process. The government's only instrument of economic policy is a repressive fiscal policy. According to the already seen scenario, the budget gaps are patched over the back of taxpayers. So the health contribution increases, the tax coverage spreads, I would say all sorts of things, pensions are withdrawn from the 2nd pillar, the government's share of concessions increases, concession fees, profits are withdrawn from public companies, excise payments are raised, and I don't list a number of measures that are not welcome. But apparently there's less room for new tax burdens on citizens, and I doubt the government will be able to pick up everything she planned on the rebalance. I therefore agree with the assessments of some of my colleagues that this is not the only and last budget or rebalancing in 2014. And what everyone should all be afraid of together and ask if the next one's on the run is whether they own a property with a famous real estate tax. In the end, I'm going to quote a pre-election slogan to the Kukuriku coalition, which read, "Long life, not long life." I think from today's perspective we can suspect that with these measures it will be a longer life for our citizens, but the debt could turn into bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75133	Thank you very much. Let's go to the replicas. Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev Branka, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75134	Thank you very much. Well, you said a colleague of the Jerolims, you were talking about the burning problems of our islands. I'd like to update you with a few more numbers and data. Namely, this rebalancing for port captains, i.e. for the fitting of port captains to vessels, vehicles, devices and other equipment is projected 23% less. To rebuild and maintain the business premises of port captains and stations 48% less, and we all know what it means in our neighborhood of port captains. It means safety at sea, especially in summer months. However, there is a new Law on Maritime Goods in preparation and we leave 450 thousand kunas for the determination and implementation of maritime goods borders with the exemption. 70% less funds. I don't know what you can do or what kind of exorcism you can do with these means. Next, we're waiting for the season with a shortage of fire protection, so much less funding for as much as 9 million and 750 thousand kuna, so much so we won't be able to have enough for fuel or remont. With these figures as I said we are waiting for the tourist season as well as without the director of the Croatian Tourist Board. The Minister of Tourism visits Istria for the eighth time yesterday, and in your Zadar County, in our Sibenik-Knin and Split-Dalmatia was only at the beginning of the term of office. With us as if there will be no tourist season or tourism has belonged to IDS and Istria, and we are only expected to fill the budget and increase revenues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75135	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Ante Jerolimov.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75136	Well, I don't have any practical answers, but together, my colleague Juricev agrees with you that the situation is what you said. You also mentioned port captains, so you could download 100% and make a 100% savings. Why? Because we have examples on the ground that certain port station captains retired two, three years ago, and no new port captains have been admitted today, but some trainees are being accepted at 1600 kuna. And you're probably aware of that in your county, too, which I am aware of in my Preka but also in Starigrad and throughout our county. We have seen about the maritime law of a new maritime good that certain leaders of units of local self-government who do not come from our party, but from Kukuriku coalition do not agree with everything that the law provides, and in particular not in this case, let us tell the unsupervised and lack of financial resources to build up new agencies, to create new agencies that should measure the maritime goods as if those commissions where all of the cadastres, courts, counties, representatives of local self-government units were not credible. But apparently someone needs to be put in those agencies, so then that amount you listed is probably just the amount for their salaries.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75137	Dear Representative Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75138	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You said your colleague, Jerolimov, that Minister Linic said this was a time of struggle for survival. Well, of course, that's why I warned about the expenditures of the state budget because they threaten such a sudden increase in expenditure threatens and seriously threatens the survival of even the state itself. The expenditure of the state budget grew years faster than growth in economic activities and then we have 6 years and 6 years of economic stagnation and an accelerated growth in the expenditure of the state budget. It is therefore necessary to reduce the expenditures of the state budget and there are places where even damages are socially harmful to some expenditure and I have warned who they are. Public debt threatens and threatens the stability of the Republic of Croatia, interest on debt is almost 15% of the total expenditure of the state budget. I don't want to be dramatic but it threatens us with debt slavery and once upon a time Zak Russell told the free peoples, remember you can gain freedom but once you lose it you'll never be able to restore it and if we lose economic freedom we won't be able to restore it again and then the Croatian dream will remain unfulfilled and dirty and so we have to do everything to stop the public debt being such a weight of the Republic and that it doesn't so much increase because we'll get into a situation that we won't be able to get out of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75139	Answer, Jerolimov.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75140	Well, I agree with you, Mr. Maric, completely, I think that Minister Linic is also aware of the situation in which the state is located, and it certainly is not easy for him, for sure, to give full energy to move something but probably not to be followed by these colleagues, not to be followed by him, but even shoes on the media, which we can witness daily and the prime minister teaches him how to talk and talk to his friends. It is clear that, as a type of economist, you know that you should not only work on expenditures but also need to increase revenues in some way and to increase revenues that we need to increase exports, that we need to increase investment, create new jobs, and that this is the only way to recover and move economically.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75141	Replica, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75142	A respected colleague, mentioning the Poličnik Zone, which is for all praises, one little Poličnik made a zone. You mentioned it and you called it the Mega Zone Black, it's a zone, it's just a mega by time, a business zone of Black where it's promised to be the local government's business zone of 2005 and then there's a state election, and then seven, nine, eleven, there's gonna be no more darkness there yet to be visited so that the city's dads can tell us if we need a Black zone at all and from the state we got a good share of the territory for that business zone of Black, and only last year some symbolic fees have managed to pay the city's authorities to the state. And you're also saying that over the island's waterways and roads, is that also, especially those who are part of the city of Zadar, that was also the city's government's promise in every project, and now there's nothing but that the state roads, highways, you didn't build so expensively, you'd certainly have been paved long ago. In addition, all the projects, we had a recent project presentation and any government in any personnel combination, something prepared projects, the city of Zadar none has prepared a project. And by the time you've finished your quotes and election messages, have you forgotten about your HDZ message, HDZ knows and now you know nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75143	It's Ante Jerolimov.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75144	Mrs. Ingrid HDZ knows everything. You've convinced yourself how many 7, 8 times you've participated in the local elections and I understand your frustration that you can't win the election, don't ask me typically about the city of Zadar and only about the city of Zadar, you've been a councilman in the city hall so far, I think you're still now, but I'm not sure. Therefore, you can certainly do much more to contribute as I have said to my ministers and to my government that this area, among others, is being put into office. Certain works in the area are launched, not all the state will have to enable the municipal infrastructure of Mrs Ingrid to revive the area. I was just saying that there's no 110 kilowater that all those who want to invest in that area and there's 100 of them in the Black Zone, which in the Grab area, which in the Murvica zone, they can't, you're laughing but that's the truth. you can also check with the head of the municipality if you do not trust the mayor of Zadar, you can check with the head of the municipality of Poličnik, Mr. Lončar and you will see that there are 100 investors waiting for this problem to be solved in order to start some kind of production in these areas. And I'm asking you to listen a little more to Zadar and to Zadar's problems, so we're going to do that, whatever people down there need, and what people expect from the same people who are in power and from those who aren't in power here in the Parliament to fight for some kind of Zadar interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75145	The last replica is Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75146	Here's an esteemed colleague, you've really turned out to be correct in all of what you've been saying and appealed to be joint from the position of all parties both in position and in opposition working for interest both in Zadar, Zadar County and all of Croatia. What I want to say to you is, after this, it's nine o'clock, there have been excellent discussions from colleagues, colleagues from SDP and Labourists and us from HDZ. Do you think anyone heard us? Or did we really have a set of words from morning to day and not say, "one game to the public"? Since the Minister of Finance is here, is everything we specifically tried to say, is what will come to the vote with the amendments, is there really a possibility that there are some things that we agree on, we can fix in this budget rebalancing? Well, it's not quite real that each of these 1,000 items is really best written. Perhaps you can find 1, 2, 3, 4 which can be done differently and suggest in a different way. Do you think a colleague that we have done this in his debate, representing a part of the citizens who voted for each of us in different constituencies, whether we have done it in any way, that's what I'm asking you, both your colleague and all the other colleagues and colleagues and the finance minister. While HRT is not at all important to report on this on any specialized show, rather it is doing a special show on elections in Serbia, all honours, all in order, but it really does not find it appropriate or invite the finance minister to say something about it, or someone from the opposition to possibly criticise and some proposal, let's at least two, three little things that we can agree on, to try to agree on.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75147	My colleague Jerolimov is not the director of HRT, but he will respond to your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75148	There won't be a colleague of Jerolimov, but Mr. Mesic could be because he's much more expert than I am, and here's a rhetoric that's today very commendable and I am sure that it has rarely taken this and heard as you have imagined, but I believe that the Minister of Finance is a serious man, that he is doing a serious job and that he will certainly seriously analyse everything that has been said here, and that we should all be concerned here that no matter what party is in power, no matter what party the current government is acting, that we allow our citizens to live better, to live safer, more comfortable, and that these discussions are not political bickering, what you have done, what we have done, and often comes down, here is the last replica, something that we come from the local self-government unit are not used to. [[Intruder Stazic: Maybe now he's replicating.]] In fact, both municipal and city councils often, especially in small communities, struggle together to draw any investment into their place and thus make life easier for those people down there. I believe that this should also be done in this Parliament when it comes to the level of the entire state of Croatia, and that good well-intentioned criticism should exist, that different opinions should be pointed out, but there should be no malice and depravity as we have witnessed today by some parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75149	After almost 12 hours of debate, the closing word belongs to Minister of Finance Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75150	Dear Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, I really thank you for the quality debate on the proposal for budget rebalancing for 2014. At the end of this debate, we also received 7 amendments that essentially point to suggestions where it might decrease and increase. On behalf of the Ministry of Finance, we will do our best to seriously consider all your proposals and amendments with all ministers and to try to see what we can do to correct the budget rebalancing and to respect some of your proposals. What I really want to point out once again is that the government has determined to rebalance this budget in such a way as to find additional revenues of slightly less than 4 billion and also to cut expenditures by 3.5 billion. It's somewhere we've estimated it's necessary to reduce the deficit on the one hand, to get close to 4.1, 4.5 when we look at the government budget deficit 4.5% of GDP and on the other hand to cover... the debt tranche from health care. It's always the basic thing, it's a lot of debate, however we're going into this debate about budget rebalances, whether or not all the burden is passed on to the expenditure side. The problem of reducing only the spending side would be the problem of jeopardising any growth in the Republic of Croatia and that is why we went to the same burden on the income and expenditure side to try to find a solution. What is also a very clear message from the Government of the Republic of Croatia that pensions that are on average 2400 kuna cannot and cannot be touched so simply in that part, although pension funds are the largest deficits of the Republic of Croatia, pension funds are the ones that create the biggest deficits for the reasons that commitments are close to or over 36 billion, and 19 billion are revenues, but simply with such low pensions the only solution is the larger number of employees, the higher amounts are those who pay pension contributions, and not any touching. And we also tried not to reduce social benefits and fees but vice versa, reforming away from the social rights of all those who do not have the right to social income in order to do more protection in some way towards those who need social protection. And what I want to say lastly, we've been working really busy in the state services as much as possible with the reductions for a simple reason whether the average income of employees in state and public services is no longer above the average of receiving in the Republic of Croatia. This is what led the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose this budget and I say with serious consideration of your amendments we will be ready to vote. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75151	Thank you. The desire to replicate is expressed by two MPs. The first is Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75152	Thank you very much. I may be a boring minister, but I haven't heard your attitude about this, I've talked a lot about privatising the Imperial and it's part of the rebalancing obviously. The finance ministry as a contact ministry for potential investors is listed here. After he finished the first round, and he ended up thinking in ten days, gathering interest in investing through a letter of intent, so I wanted to hear your opinion. Do you really want to sell Imperial through a classic listing on the stock market or are you willing to think about working stock? I think that's a crucial question for me here today, and I'm going to talk about it in the future because it interests a lot of people on this island, and that's also in the Primorian-Gorski County that you're from, and I don't think anyone cares what happens to that successful state-owned company.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75153	Finance Minister Slavko Linic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75154	It's not about the budget, but I want to say very clearly, as the person I've participated in many privatisations, I'm in favour of working stock. But to understand the same thing under the same conditions as everyone else. Therefore, Rab Imperial has passed the transformation phase and a good part of the workers is the owner of Rab Imperial even I was part of the team that formed Mr. Sanader as prime minister of government that was to give models and we gave models to the workers to take one piece and become 100% and the state to take over the second part. Unfortunately, these models have never been accepted by the government. And today we have come before this House to accept the Privatisation Strategy, therefore, that Rab Imperial should go into privatisation and that it should support workers to enter that model. Therefore, you yourself said that this is not such a great value, so I am convinced that workers and citizens of Rab can organize themselves and that only someone should take them and that every bank will monitor as much as they are afraid to enter non-transparent property because it is considered a working stock. If the city of Rab is with its citizens and employees, every bank will support it and I am convinced that you can succeed and you do not need to give it up.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75155	Thank you. The second replica is Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75156	Thank you. Mr. Minister, it particularly encourages what you said you would once again consider concrete proposals and concrete amendments. I was also pleased to hear from you in particular that you will take control of public enterprises especially at HRT on 31.3. and check that on Croatian public television the laws that have been passed in this House and in some way correct it and try and make things right there. I don't think that's going to be easy for you either. And I would agree with those opposition colleagues if this place wasn't easy for the finance minister at this point, but in some ways I really think that if we want to do well what our colleague Jerolimov said, we need to find strength and really stand behind some things together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75157	Finance Minister Slavko Linic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75158	Yes, I agree with you. If we insist on the responsibilities of private companies and simply ask them to pay taxes regularly, to carry out mutual obligations with each other, then we should essentially be the state budget, the state-owned companies that have to go ahead with this and pay deadlines must respect and that is why we carried out a review in the last quarter of last year and why we will repeat it again with 31.3. and announce really whether state-owned enterprises, institutions are fulfilling their obligations under the Financial Business Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75159	Thank you. So the debate on the text of the amendment proposal and the addition of the state budget is over. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75160	a) Proposal to amend and supplement the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014. a) Proposals for amendments to the 2014 financial plans: Croatian Waters and Croatian Roads (a) Proposal for amendments to the State budget and to the financial plans of extra-financial users for 2014 consolidated. The debate on the text of the amendment proposal and the addition of the state budget has been completed. The amendments have been submitted to our special table, so I would like to ask the representative of the motionary of the respected finance minister. The intruder doesn't understand. Oh, okay. Thank you very much. According to the items in the budget, I like it well. Amendment No. 1st respected representative, Josip Djakic. The D.O.D., please. Vesna Nadj, Deputy Secretary of Defense. Here's your esteemed deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75161	Amendment No. 1st in Chapter 41. The Ministry of Defence activity A 522022 housing of disabled people from the Homeland War to increase by 20 million kuna so that it amounts to 63 million 350 thousand 500 kuna. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Budget Law proposes to increase the amount of the reduction in resources in Chapter 020 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's activity A 508015 compensation to the responsible persons by 4 million 435 thousand kuna, activity A 509014 National Foundation for the Development of Civil Society Association for Community Development.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75162	Respected deputies are worth it to the Parliament to declare whether you accept or do not accept it. They have all the amendments. And an explanation why you accept it and why you do not accept it. That'll be enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Amendment No. 1. shall not be accepted, with reasons at position A 522022, the housing of persons with disabilities from the Homeland War, provided for in the 2014 Financial Plan, relate to borrowing benefits which depend on the boredom of burdened flats and loans, and shall, in accordance with Article 41(2). Laws on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families ensure through the payment of loans and the rural sale of apartments and houses.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75164	Thank you very much. There are no applicants of the amendment, we have to decide. Please make a statement. Who is for the amendment of respected representative Josip Djakic whom the government does not accept? Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Let's go to Amendment No. 2nd of the same representative, respected deputy minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75165	Amendment No. 2. is not accepted with the following explanation, at position A 753009, the employment of Croatian defenders has been reduced in the Ministry of Defence's 2014 Finance Plan due to the adoption of a new programme and the introduction of new measures that stress the withdrawal of funds from the EU. Since these measures account for those EU funds, no additional funding of 3 million kuna is needed, the programme will be assisted with the planned amount.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75166	Thank you very much. There is no respected applicant for the amendment, respected representative Josip Djakic. We need to make a statement. Who's for Amendment No. The 2nd Honored Representative, Josip Djakic, who is not accepted by the government? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 3. also respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75167	Amendment No. 3. is not accepted with the following explanation, at the position of A 753014 national programme of psychosocial and health assistance to participants and victims of the Homeland War, the funding in the 2014 Financial Plan for the organisation of the PSP Conference will be reduced as the conference will be held for a short period of time with a smaller number of participants. The funds have also been reduced on the refunds of regional workers' gross salaries. Although the number of employees remained the same, there was a reduction because part of the staff was admitted to a permanent employment relationship and their salaries were paid from the position of the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75168	Thank you very much. Since there is no honourable representative of the applicant for the amendment, we must declare ourselves. Who's for Amendment No. 3. Which government does not accept? I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much, well-respected Deputy Secretary of Defense. Now we're moving on to the Ministry of Culture. I ask the Deputy Minister, the respected Berislav Šipush, to be shown on Amendment No. 4. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75169	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is rejected, it is not accepted by reason, it is estimated that the reduced resources to encourage the production of audiovisual works will be sufficient to meet the commitments made, and if some of the commitments are not settled, they will be paid at the beginning of 2015. In addition, the budget rebalancing refers to the sources of 11 whereas the funds allocated to non-profit media are the funds realised by a specific decision from the part of the gambling revenue which determines the schedule and amount of funds for individual purposes and is not the subject of this rebalancing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75170	Thank you very much. On behalf of the applicant for the amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, the respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75171	Dear Mr. President, it is very clear why the HDZ Club insisted on this amendment. And this is because certain creative industries can contribute to the economic growth of the Republic of Croatia as a whole. One of the most effective measures in recent years has just been the promotion of the audiovisual industry or co-production projects taking place in the Republic of Croatia. Under this limit, which is now set at 8 million means that you can record the maximum amount of 40 million. You know very well that the negotiations are already very important projects. We have a government announcement from the Prime Minister that there will be no new rebalancing, and if the project is realised this year, then it should be paid accordingly this year. And he simply doesn't hold a water explanation that will be paid in 2015. Already today on the cover of one of the headlines of the daily press you have a warning that there is a possibility that the film of the series "The Game of Thrones" will go to another country, and we also remind that this measure exists in all countries that directly compete with Croatia to attract this type of investment. Not to mention how many audiovisual projects are being implemented in the Republic of Croatia have also a positive effect on the promotion of the Republic of Croatia abroad, especially tourism, etc. We therefore ask for a vote concerning this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75172	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment number four. A HDZ representative club the government doesn't accept? Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 5, Deputy Deputy Minister of Culture of the same Club of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75173	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. According to the rebalancing proposal, the means of which the character of subsidies and subsidies were reduced by 2 million kuna in the Ministry of Culture. The reduction of these funds will not be negatively expressed on cinematographic activity because the Croatian Audiovisual Centre also has additional funds to finance cinematographic activities that are being implemented under the special Act on Audiovisual Activities. We draw attention to the funds allocated to the Culture New Foundation and the Croatian Foundations, the Croatian House, according to a special decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the use of the funds of part of the gambling income and as such are not the subject of this rebalancing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75174	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment of the HDZ Club, the respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75175	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Minister, there is an analysis of the economic institute in the Republic of Croatia that was presented at the Committee's thematic sessions here in the Croatian Parliament, where it is clearly said that one kuna is invested in the audiovisual industry, returns to the amount of 2.7 kuna. More than three hundred small businesses related to this particular activity have been launched with several recent years in the Republic of Croatia, they carry out specific activities, employ a large part of the people. As for what you're saying, I have to say that you're coming into a paradoxical situation and that some activities that don't have such an effect for the economic growth of the Republic of Croatia are being financed by more funds than you're financing a full return of taxes related to foreign audiovisual co-production to finance them with more funds than the overall archival activity of the Republic of Croatia, etc., etc. At the same time in which you finance the project Croaten House Croatian House at the same time reduces funds to international cultural cooperation programmes for which we must say that in the past years and last year I will remind only the Croatian Parter Frans cultural season in France has had outstanding successes and contributed to the promotion of Croatia and Croatian tourism outside so that this is completely contradictory and therefore the HDZ Club is requesting a vote here on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75176	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment number five. The HDZ Representatives Club, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. We move on to Amendment number six of the Honored Representative of the Sunny Glavak. Deputy Minister Honorable Zeljko Uklir, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75177	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. The amendment shall not be accepted for the reasons followed by a Regulation which will transfer the revenue from taxis to units of local self-government and make up for that part that has not been regulated so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75178	Thank you very much. The applicant for the amendment is a respected representative of Sunchana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy, is that what we should believe, or the association of cities and all the mayors who have wondered why the funds have been reduced to 12 million kuna, we can actually trust you to believe that this will be settled by a regulation if that is the case I do not think it can be settled by a regulation, because that can be settled by a regulation then it would not be planned in the state budget that was in the original form of this year and this rebalancing has reduced the funds to 12 million kuna. So, with all due respect, Mr. Deputy, I don't know why there was a decentralisation of the execution of certain jobs, why the cities had to take over jobs on themselves and why they were denied in this way of funds. No matter what you say, I demand a vote and a statement from my colleagues and colleagues on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75180	Thank you, too. Would you like to make a statement on Amendment number 6 of the Honored Representative of the Sun Head, which the Government does not accept? Who's in? I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. We are moving on to amendment number seven of Honored Representative Josip Djakic, Deputy Minister Sas Zelenik, here you are, dear deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75181	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the funds are secured in this position sufficient for the purposes for which they are intended. Namely, the funds for co-financing of textbooks that were provided for co-financing by 2014 under the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth have since this year only been united within the framework of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Since the criteria of the users of the funds have not changed, we believe that the funds provided are sufficient to co-finance textbooks for pupils of primary and secondary schools.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75182	Thank you very much. The applicant for the amendment is not present, so we will decide on the amendment by declaring it. Please state the amendment to the 7th Honored Representative, Josip Djakic, who is in favour? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. Let's go to Amendment number eight of Honored Representative Veljko Kajtazi, Deputy Minister Bozidar Stubelj, here you go, Deputy Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75183	Thank you very much, Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs, the amendment is not accepted. It is not possible to provide proposed amendments and additions to the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 to increase the funds requested on the activities of the Decade Action Plan for Roma inclusion from 2005-2015. Funds for active Roma employment measures will be provided from EU structural funds in the coming period. The funds planned within the head of the Croatian Employment Service, activity 68 90 13 at position 323, expenditure on services, cannot be reduced by the proposed 2 million kuna, as they are necessary to carry out regular activities of the Institute under the conditions of increased unemployment. The resources planned within Chapter 08 605 of the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, activities on human potential development, 145 cannot be reduced by the proposed 4 million 243 000 as the funds are necessary for the implementation of operational plans under the European Social Fund, i.e. operations for which implementation started through the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance of the IPA and the European Social Fund for the Location of 2013. The implementation funds are covered by the European Social Fund and no reduction is possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75184	Amendment holder, honourable representative Veljko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75185	I thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Deputy. I accept this decision by the Government although I am not satisfied with the reduction of the budget under the Action Plan for Roma inclusion, and the information I did not have at the time of the amendments is about the European Social Funds' funds and the possibility of using these funds in the public works system is indeed positive, and I hope that the 5m euros mentioned will be used for the working activation of young and long-term unemployed Roma. I have already spoken about the importance of public works for the Roma community and I sincerely hope that there will be administrative capacity to make use of most of the resources available to us through successful projects and programmes. So far, Croatia has not been the most successful in using available funds, and I sincerely hope that some lessons from this area are now overcome and will benefit both the national minorities and the majority population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75186	Request a vote or Thank you very much. [[I'm not looking.]] Thank you very much. Amendment number 9, on behalf of the Commissioner for Information, Honored Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75187	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. At this time of last year, a Law on the right to access information was adopted where the Information Commissioner's Institution was introduced. Despite changes and additions to the state budget in 2014 were launched in order to reduce expenditure in order to implement excessive deficit procedures to the level of 258 Information Commissioners, an increase of expenditure of 445 thousand kuna or almost 32% more than was proposed in the draft budget. This amendment also requires an additional increase, unfortunately at this time the government does not accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75188	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Honored Representative Milorad Pupovac, on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75189	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, we understand that it must be saved and that it must be cut on different aspects, it has been accepted by our club in a series of items and heavy hearts, but this is an extremely important institute for the functioning of our institutions as a measure of prevention against corruption and as a measure of ensuring citizens' rights to information when it comes to the work of our institutions. 8,000 public bodies, bodies of the public authority that the Commissioner for Information, in accordance with the law, should monitor and, if necessary, impose sanctions with as many people as he has right now, with these capacities that he currently has, is simply an illusion. Our neighbouring countries, therefore in northern Slovenia and the east of Serbia, have up to 15 staff in the Commissioner's Office, or the Commissioner for Information. With what is now foreseen, we can barely maintain what we have decided, which is that we have the Commissioner and the secretary of the commissioner. That is absolutely not enough, and in that sense, on behalf of the SDSS Club, I ask that the vote be put on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75190	Thank you very much. I would like to make a statement on Amendment 9 of the SDSS Representatives Club that the government does not accept. Who's in? I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much. Amendment number 10 of the respected MP Mirela Holly, similar, but from different parts.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75191	And the explanation in this section regarding the Commissioner for Information is therefore identical, this budget proposal has already been increased by almost 30% and, unfortunately, at this point, the further increase of the Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75192	Thank you very much. I'm the applicant for the amendment, the esteemed representative of Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75193	Your Honor. Well, I think it is extremely important that we ensure the normal functioning of the Information Commissioner, given the fact that without it, it is a question of whether we will have a quality implementation of this law. The law we have passed is a very high-quality law, but it will remain only a dead letter on paper unless we provide enough resources to hire new people who will be able to actually implement this law in practice. This is an extremely important institution that ensures that democratic standards are respected and ultimately prevents corruption, so I think it would still be necessary to vote on this amendment which is the same, and otherwise I submitted it to the GONG association's application.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75194	Thank you very much. I would like to make a statement on Amendment number 10 of Honored Representative Mirela Holly, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. We've exhausted the list of amendments. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 and Project for 2015 and 2016. Note, for the adoption of amendments and the addition of the budget, most of all representatives of the Croatian Parliament are required. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. The Constitution of the Please state who's in favor of the proposal? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes are 81 votes in favour and 25 votes against amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 and projections for 2015 and 2016 in the text as proposed by the Government without the amendments accepted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The budget law is now being put to the vote on decisions to give consent to the financial plans of extra budget beneficiaries. 1. I am voting in favour of giving consent to amendments and additions to the Croatian Waters Financial Plan for 2014 and projections for 2015 and 2016. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes 81 votes for and 24 votes against a decision to give consent to amendments and additions to the Croatian Waters Financial Plan for 2014 and projections for 2015 and 2016 in the text as proposed by the Proposer. I am voting in favour of giving consent to the amendments and additions to the Croatian Roads Financial Plan for 2014. Please state by raising your hand who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes 81 votes for and 23 votes against a decision to give consent to the amendments and additions to the Croatian Roads Financial Plan for 2014 and the projection for 2015 and 2016 in the text as proposed by the Proposer. In accordance with the proposal of the Legislative Committee, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament is hereby authorised to carry out, together with the representatives of the motions, a revision of the text of amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 and to amend and supplement the financial plans before their publication in the National Journal." I'm asking you to state who's in favour of the proposed conclusion. Thank you. Who is against the proposed conclusion? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote 81 votes for and 24 votes are abstentions of the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75195	We move to: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014, second reading, P.Z. No. 637 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. This law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The hearing was conducted by competent and interested committees. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Minister of Finance Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75196	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Very briefly, the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget is harmonised with the proposed budget rebalancing. The basic feature that is the result of the rebalancing is that we are reducing the total amount of debt by 7 billion kuna, so these are items that we are changing in the Execution Act to know which amounts we can borrow.... /. on the foreign and domestic markets. We also entered here if you remember the results of that early post in 2013, which refers to the commitments for this year. We are also changing the level of duty with extra budget users of Croatian Waters and Croatian Roads. Unfortunately, we're raising our guarantee stock from 434 million to 729 for paying off some guarantees. In view of the savings, we also reduce the allocations for HBOR subsidies of 150 million kuna and that part is resolved. And also to ensure the revenues in the state budget based on the results of the business of companies of strategic and special interest where we are both majority and minority owners, we define in this Implementation Act how this should be done, and also the possibility that agencies and certain institutions can also withdraw certain amounts necessary for revenues in the state budget. These are about the basic characteristics of the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75197	I thank the minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the name of the HDZ Club, the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75198	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister. As much as some of the changes in this Law on the implementation of the State budget are logical and comply with what has been discussed today in the Assembly, these are Articles 2, 3 and 4, but frankly speaking to me is not clear why Article 5 should be the subject of the State Budget Act for several reasons at all. First of all, the establishment of the Treasury of any person who has any payment order is known precisely how to handle it with the State Treasury, and I see no reason why the article would include the possibility that the Ministry of Interior for the wrongly paid revenues from the money... and the costs of the procedure from the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Interior. The same thing is given to the Department of Justice. Because if you're giving this right, then you're asking the question of counter-counts in the state budget, why, because they're budget users. While this was within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance, it is well known how and from what position it is dealt with in the state budget, which is why this provision is unclear to me because you are practically giving authority to the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Justice to enter into the intelligence of the Ministry of Finance. I think that this could have been solved technically in a different way, by solving and sending certain tasks to the State Treasury, and I don't think that's the subject of the State Budget Act. It's a technique, and I don't think there's any room to do that, but if it is put in place then I think this assessment of the source of the necessary funds and the implementation of the law should read a little differently because the law on the implementation of the state budget to regulate how the state budget is used and the borrowing and the logical thing that funds in the state budget are provided for the implementation of this law. But here we are now installing something that is not in line with what has been regulated through the budget law so far. So I'm saying I really don't get it, maybe there was pressure from your colleagues from these two ministries, but I think it's because of the functioning of the State Treasury and the principles of unity of the Treasury, it's not good that such a provision... So that's what we at the HDZ Club think. Also in Article 2 it is therefore evident that a debt was committed last year and that this was transferred as a deposit in this year and that, with that basis, somewhere around 4 billion and some other kunas, the state should be less in debt, and this second reduction is the result of the planned deficit reduction. These are all other technical things, however, I would be interested in seeing that you said that the guaranteed reserves that these guarantees were charged for are increasing the guarantee reserves by a month. And what I do not understand and no matter how hard I try to see the meaning of this article 5, I simply did not find it for a few reasons. Therefore, first of all, Article 46(1) states members of the Assembly of Trade Companies of Strategic and Special Interest for the Republic of Croatia in which the Republic of Croatia has a majority stake or majority share package, it is mandatory to take all necessary actions and measures in companies to obtain part of the profits after tax in 2013 directly into the budget and a proportion to the shares package and shares of the Republic of Croatia in the underlying capital. So if we have majority ownership then we have inside and members of our board and it is precisely known that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is giving instructions to the members of the board that they will vote and if the Government of the Republic of Croatia makes a decision to this company, in fact that members of the Supervisory Board first vote it, that it is later adopted at the Assembly, I see no reason why this should be in the Budget Implementation Act. This first part is not so controversial yet, but I do not understand this second part, which is paragraph 2 in accordance with paragraph 1 of the Trade Companies of the Strategic and Special Interest of the Republic of Croatia in which the Republic of Croatia has a minority package of shares or minority stakes, members of the Supervisory Committees and members of the Assembly representing the Republic of Croatia are obliged to require that part of the profits be paid directly to the budget after the 2013 tax. Look, colleagues and colleagues, we're installing a provision in a law we're unable to implement if we don't have the consent of whoever has the majority package. So if we don't have 50% of the votes in the assembly, if we don't have 50% of the members of the Supervisory Board, we can't make that decision. And what happens if we put it into the State Budget Act and we can't implement it? So I really don't understand these provisions any more than the Government can make with its decision. And if you have stressed here in your budget explanation that you want to withdraw profits from companies and that this is one of the models and ways to solve the problem of the excessive deficit, then it is your right to propose. But I don't see why we're embezzling it as a provision in the Law on Budgetary Implementation, the more we in the Budgetary Law put in place something that's regulated by the Law on Commercial Companies. And we know exactly at this point if the assembly is called together, that the assembly can't vote the decision if the majority owner says it won't pay off the profits. Because what's going to happen is we pass a budget law like this, but let's take an example of the INA. Good INA is at a loss this year, so there won't be any need to discuss profits. But let's say the INAs, the strategic partner has so much, Croatia has so many and small shareholders have some 2, 3% or who already has that. And let's say the Hungarians agree with those who have 2% shares and we simply say we won't pay off the profits, we want to say God willing but, invested in the Sisak Refinery. And how will members of the Supervisory Board and the Assembly implement the Law on the implementation of the State Budget? So, I think this provision, I know that you want to make sure, given the incomes, that someone doesn't think about paying off for this or that reason. But I just don't see how we can build into the budget law a provision that's inconclusive without a prior agreement. So that's something I don't understand. Also, Article 46b. If we have to build on the budget law that agencies are obliged to invest extra income over expenditures in the state budget, then it's ridiculous, then it's ridiculous. Why? Because the decision on how to dispose of excess income is made by the agencies of the people appointed by the Government. Because these agencies are practically a hundred percent government figure. And the logical thing is, if the government adopts such a policy that agencies will pay money into the state budget, it simply is the Government, once in its decision, that the guidelines to all members of the Supervisory Boards, the boards of directors, the boards of directors, the agencies, should make such a decision in the congregations. They vote it and that's it. So we're not gonna change anything with this budget law. Therefore, I do not understand why we are extending this budget law that has yet been limited in certain frameworks, which has been regulated by it to me by some partial things that are one-time applications. Or, let's say, what would happen if someone in the government managed to fight it, one resolute minister, say, with the Prime Minister, and that a company would not be good enough to pay a profit in the state budget, but instead to reroute that gain into something I know otherwise. Are we going to have to change the budget law? Because we're practically committed to all of this. These are binding provisions. And that's why I'm saying I honestly don't see the point of this, and it can be a lot of problems with that more which and with that I'm going to conclude this debate with this provision of Article 46a. and 46b. The government is definitely leaving another economic concept, which is that the economic development bearer in the Republic of Croatia will be public enterprises. That's a fact. And it's not a political flossula or demagogue, but it's simply a confirmation that the government is giving up what led us to an economic downturn of 2% in 2012. Why? Well you remember well that then the first Deputy Prime Minister and the Prime Minister said that economic development carriers in the Republic of Croatia would be a public enterprise. And today we have two things that the budget through this rebalancing budget has experienced capitulation, and now we confirm with another act. And now I really want to know who will be the bearer of economic development in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, Mr. Minister, I am not proposing to make an amendment because I am not able to write it down that this article 46 is Article 5 and Article 1 we are ousting from this Law on the implementation of the State budget. They just don't belong here. You and I both know exactly what the law was about. And you remember well that sometimes in the law there was when they couldn't solve the issue of VAT returns for fire trucks that we defined in the law that it would come back when the accounts were presented. Also, one extreme example was that in 2003, virtually all units of local self-government in areas of special state care were blocked because they did not have enough income to cover the return on income tax, and then in the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget we installed a provision which is still that the return of income tax on units from the areas of special state care is carried out from the state budget and not from the budget of the units of local self-government. But I believe that these two provisions are not at such a level, so much more so that this first provision directly, Mr. Minister, permeates me on the Treasury because I don't see why it would be inside. So we can't support this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75199	Thank you. In 21 hours, 30 minutes and 33 seconds, the need to replicate shows Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75200	Dear Mr. Shuker, you said these are binding decisions. However, how can decisions that are contrary to the Company Act, because you cannot, as you yourself, explain to a company where the state does not have the majority order the rest of the company to make a decision to pay a part of the surplus in the State register? Therefore, it is contrary to the Company Act. And I agree with you that the Department of Justice and the police has a special status that can penetrate the jurisdiction of the Treasury. That's why I pulled the argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75201	The replica matches Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75202	That is why I have said that if this provision of Article 1 remains as it is then here in the evaluation of the necessary funds and in the budget it will have to find the position from which it will be removed. Because the other thing is when a warrant for it is given by other ministries, the other thing is when the Ministry of Finance does it. But this article 46a is simply not applicable because we cannot give orders to members of the Supervisory Board to vote for something they do not have enough hands for. So, it's the same story as if the government by its decision that you have the guidance that tomorrow you have the Supervisory Board, on the Supervisory Board you suggest that this profit be, so our percentage is paid into the state budget. If one has a majority package of shares, the vote will vote, and if not the vote will not be voted. However, if we install it into the State Budget Implementation Act, that decision is binding. For who? Who is responsible for the implementation of the budget? And that's the finance ministers you're loading yourself with some kind of burden you don't need. And you are responsible for the implementation of the budget. And I say what will be regrettable, and it's practice, you felt it, which is what it will be if some minister says in that company you don't have to pay off the profits and let's say members of the Supervisory Board and those other owners don't vote it. Why don't we move this to a government decision? You know well that the government always gives guidance to members of the Supervisory Board and members representing the congregation how to behave on the Supervisory Board and how to behave in the congregation. Finally, this report gives discharge to the members of the administration and also decides on the distribution of profits. And that's the subject that the congregation is discussing. But I say, what happens if someone sets the responsibility of the one responsible for the implementation of the budget if the decision referred to in Article 46(2) and (3) has not been implemented?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75203	The club Independent Representatives were contacted by Ivan Grubisic and Damir Kajin. There's not one, they lose their right, this club loses its right to debate. The closing word belongs to Finance Minister Slavko Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75204	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A brief explanation given Mr. Shucker's remarks and suggestions. When we talk about Article 1 each day, the Ministry of Finance has 50 to 100 requests, each day, to repay too much funds. Is it based on the sentence of the Ministry of the Interior or the Ministry of Justice? Multiply that by 270 days and you'll see what the huge number of demands is. For any request to return, the Ministry of Finance shall, by written request, address either one or another ministry for reasons and for us to obtain agreement on the part. Therefore, unnecessary correspondence, unnecessary communication and delaying the return procedure for citizens who have wrongly paid the amount. And that is why the Ministry of Finance has assessed that there will be no question at the Treasury, nor would I say abuse of the Treasury if we give the competent ministries the right to wrongly paid amounts to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And that's why we still think we don't see any problems that the ministries that simply issued solutions, and someone wrongly paid it directly don't implement it and don't reduce it. As for newspapers in this law, these are measures to reduce the excessive deficit. There is a question whether or not we want to understand that the excessive deficit is the problem of the Republic of Croatia and that this is a problem that everyone who works for the Republic of Croatia has to solve. The government of the Republic of Croatia even stated in the preamble of many laws why it is accessing certain extraordinary measures. So we have also called for constitutional provisions and for reasons to interpret what this means is an excessive deficit. How important it is that every kuna of income we want is also in a law that says it will achieve these revenues, saying that this time no one has the freedom to choose what it will represent when it comes to the state of Croatia and what the interests of the Republic of Croatia are. So we care about those revenues being charged. And that is why we have two formulations, where we are majority owners, then it is the obligation of members representing the Republic of Croatia to take all necessary measures to pay an adequate amount as determined by the proposal of the CERP or DUDI. When we are in a minority package, then we commit members representing the Republic of Croatia to fight for proposals that will be determined by CERRP and DUDI. Therefore, we have put this into the budget because you will allow and the excessive deficit is not the usual procedure, it is not the usual thing to do. And we just want to give a stronger importance to the government's policy in the fight to collect every income. And yes, the Ministry of Finance will have a very clear distribution according to the CERP proposal and the DUDI proposal, and that is what we will very much follow through these provisions of Article 46a and 46b to see how they behave, whether those who represent the majority package in trading societies where we are majority owners and how those representing Croatia as minority owners are fighting, whether they have expressed their position very clearly, the interest of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and how it is realised. That is why we have estimated to add new provisions when it comes to measures to reduce the excessive deficit is not a waste, but only increases seriousness in the struggle to collect revenue. I thank you for the debate, and here I have tried to explain why these two new specificities are in the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75205	Thank you. We'll hear the replica of Ivan Shuker now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75206	Mr. Minister, I fully understand your reasons, but also for these reasons, I would not want something to be built on that is not good. You know very well that the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior can give exclusive orders for the funds that have been granted to them at their ministries in the House of Commons. So, they can't issue any other warrant, and what you said, the procedure, you have to ask for consent, you can technically agree to go the other way, but well, you're saying so. However, Article 46b is something else. This is an executive document, so its name is the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, which means an executive document and you have installed a contractual provision in the executive document because Article 46.b paragraph 2 is contractual, it cannot be executed, it is contractual and therefore you deviate from the basic principle of this law. I understand your intention, but as the regulation has changed the share of concession fees, so the government could bring this regulation to this. We discussed this today in budgeting and the government could pass this regulation. So it's my thinking and thinking that it's simply this with a lot of understanding for the excessive deficit, that it wants to be given on the scale, that it wants to point out what the problems are. So it's all clear to me, but I don't understand that we're pushing something that's contractual, that's it. And also in Article 1 of the Justice Minister's office, he cannot issue a warrant for a lip not granted by this Assembly. Why? Because the state audit controls every ministry in particular, and now I'm curious whether these funds are in their positions or in the Treasury. What position will these funds be returning from?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75207	Will the minister answer? No, I don't. There's no need. I thank everyone for the debate and I'm closing this debate. I'm interrupting the session now. We will continue tomorrow with the final proposal of the Consumer Protection Act. Good night! Session interrupted at 21.38 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-18-0.u75208	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014, second reading, P.Z. No. 637. The debate on the text of the law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please raise your hand to plead who's in favour? Thank you. The debate on the text of the law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please raise your hand to plead who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes 81 votes for and 24 votes against a law on amendments and amendments of the Law to amendments and additions to the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014. A year in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues continue at the plenary session of the 12th session of the Croatian Parliament. I see in the air the hand of a respected representative of Dragutin Lesar.
